03.07.2019	03.07.19 Gardner, Bipartisan Group of Senators Introduce Bill to Combat Russian Influence, Aid European Security Washington, D.C. – U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO), Chris Murphy (D-CT), Ron Johnson (R-WI), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), Ben Cardin (D-MD), and Marco Rubio (R-FL), on Thursday introduced the European Energy Security and Diversification Act to provide new tools for the United States to combat malign Russian influence and create economic opportunities at home and abroad. Russia uses its dominance of the energy market, along with bribery, corruption, and propaganda, to undermine Western institutions and install pliant governments that are unable or unwilling to counter Russia or its president, Vladimir Putin. The European Energy Security and Diversification Act will authorize $1 billion in financing to catalyze U.S. public and private sector investment for European energy projects that, paired with increased diplomatic and technical support, will help diversify Europe’s energy supply and decrease Russia’s hold on the region. U.S. Representatives Adam Kinzinger (IL-16) and Bill Keating (MA-9) are introducing the counterpart bill in the U.S. House of Representatives. “Putin’s global campaign to test our resolve and undermine the United States and our allies by leveraging their energy dominance in Europe cannot go unanswered,” said Senator Gardner. “This bipartisan bill will help promote energy independence and diversify the energy portfolios of our European allies, reducing Russia’s ability to bully Central and Eastern European nations.” “The Kremlin uses bribery, corruption and scare tactics to coerce countries in Eastern Europe into remaining dependent on Russian energy and oil. America has done a lot to help diversify Europe’s energy supply, but we can do a lot more. Our bill helps spur public and private sector investment to help our allies secure new sources of energy, and contributes to strategically important projects to help break Putin’s grip on Eastern Europe while creating good jobs here in the United States,” said Murphy. “Russia has shown that it can – and will – coerce nations that are dependent upon its energy. Countering the destabilizing influence that Russia’s energy dominance has in the region is important for Europe and U.S. national security interests. This bill would authorize the USTDA, USIDFC, and other relevant agencies to support U.S. private sector investment in strategic energy projects in Central and Eastern Europe in order to promote increased energy security and supply diversification in the region,” said Johnson. “The Kremlin’s efforts to manipulate and control Europe’s energy sector is one of the many ways in which Putin seeks to expand his corrupt influence worldwide and punish his neighbors for seeking a more democratic way of life and government. Time and again, Russian energy projects have proven to be bad for Europe and dangerous for global stability,” said Shaheen. “If passed, this bipartisan legislation will help limit the Kremlin’s toxic reach while simultaneously broadening access for like-minded, rule-abiding companies to access the European energy market. Congress must continue to use its power and authority to stand up to malign actors, like the Kremlin, and help protect our transatlantic allies.” “America’s allies need to know that the United States will actively work with them to reduce their dependence on Russian energy,” said Cardin. “We cannot sit on the sidelines and passively allow Russia to use its energy resources to endanger the stability and security of Europe.” “The United States and our allies must counter Putin’s aggressive efforts to coerce and control Europe by making the Continent more dependent on Russian energy sources,” said Rubio. “This bipartisan bill in support of U.S. private sector investment in energy projects in Central and Eastern Europe will not only protect the national and economic security of the United States and our European allies, but will also strengthen our economies and create American and European jobs.” The European Energy Security and Diversification Act of 2019 would: Authorize up to $1 billion in financing to catalyze U.S. public and private sector investment in strategically important energy projects in eligible countries from fiscal year 2019 to 2023, including: Natural gas infrastructure such as interconnectors, storage facilities, LNG import facilities, and reverse flow capacity. Electricity infrastructure, including transmission infrastructure, storage projects, and smart grids. Authorize $5 million per year in appropriations for the U.S. Trade and Development Agency (USTDA) for project feasibility studies, reverse trade missions, pilot projects, and technical workshops to support projects in the earlier stages of development. Encourage the State Department to ramp up its political and diplomatic support to eligible countries such as by facilitating negotiations for cross-border energy infrastructure and assisting eligible countries improve their energy markets and regulatory environments. ###
03.04.2019	03.04.19 Gardner, Tipton Introduce Legislation to Further Protect Cultural Sites of Ancestral Pueblo Ahead of Yucca House National Monument 100th Anniversary Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Congressman Scott Tipton (R-CO) and introduced bills H.R. 1492 and S. 641 respectively, that would further protect archaeological sites of the Ancestral Pueblo by allowing the National Park Service to modify the boundary of the Yucca House National Monument in southwest Colorado, expanding the monument by 160 acres. The Yucca House National Monument was established in 1919 by President Woodrow Wilson following an initial donation of 9.6 acres by Henry Van Kleeck. The monument was further expanded by approximately 24 acres in 1996. Today, a private landowner is seeking to donate 160 acres of land adjacent to the national monument to further protect archaeological sites and cultural resources. The land has been studied and determined to be appropriate for inclusion in the Yucca House National Monument. The donation must be facilitated through an Act of Congress. “Protecting Colorado’s public lands for our future generations is one of my top priorities, and I’m excited to introduce this legislation that will provide additional safeguards for Yucca House National Monument, one of the most well-preserved ancient dwellings in the country,” said Senator Gardner. “Congressman Tipton and I will work together to see this bill signed into law so Coloradans can continue to benefit from our public lands.” “The Yucca House National Monument is one of the most significant archaeological sites in the country and stands as a reminder of how the ancient Pueblo people used to live hundreds of years ago,” said Rep. Tipton. “One-hundred years after it was first granted national protection, I am proud to join with Senator Gardner to introduce legislation to further preserve these important cultural resources.” The bill text can be found here. ###
03.04.2019	03.04.19 Gardner, Bennet & Colleagues Introduce PFAS Action Plan of 2019 Bipartisan bill would designate PFAS chemicals as hazardous substances under our environmental protection laws Washington, D.C. — U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Michael Bennet (D-CO), with a bipartisan group of colleagues, today introduced legislation that would mandate the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), within one year of enactment, declare per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS) as hazardous substances eligible for cleanup funds under the EPA Superfund law, and also enable a requirement that polluters undertake or pay for remediation. “This bipartisan legislation will allow EPA to pursue polluters responsible for PFAS contamination and provide the communities remediation options through Superfund,” Gardner said. “PFAS contamination is a serious issue facing our communities and we need to act quickly to address this challenge. I will continue working to make sure Coloradans have access to clean and safe drinking water.” “It is inexcusable that the Trump administration continues to delay action to address PFAS contamination across the country,” Bennet said. “This bipartisan bill will ensure contaminated sites are cleaned up and resources are available to communities in Colorado so they have access to safe drinking water. Passing this measure is one of many steps we must take to address this public health threat with the urgency it requires.” In May 2018, former Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Scott Pruitt announced that EPA would propose designating PFOA and PFOS, two specific PFAS chemicals, as “hazardous substances” through one of the available statutory mechanisms, including CERCLA Section 102. Nearly a year later, on February 14, 2019, EPA released its long-anticipated PFAS Action Plan. The plan included another commitment by EPA to make that designation for PFOA and PFOS, but did not identify the available statutory mechanism it would use, nor how long the designation process would take to complete. Clear and swift action from Congress to list PFAS as hazardous substances under CERCLA would advance the action already proposed by EPA, enabling the agency to protect human health and the environment in an expeditious manner. In addition to Gardner and Bennet, original cosponsors include U.S. Senators Tom Carper (D-DE), Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV), Gary Peters (D-MI), Thom Tillis (R-NC), Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Marco Rubio (R-FL), Jeff Merkley (D-OR), Jack Reed (D-RI), Lisa Murkowski (R-AL), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), Richard Burr (R-NC), and Joe Manchin (D-WV). U.S. Representative Debbie Dingell (D-Mich.) led the introduction of companion legislation in the House of Representatives earlier this Congress. The bill text is available HERE.
03.01.2019	03.01.19 Gardner Statement on Readiness Exercises with South Korea Washington, D.C. - Today, Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement in response to reports regarding large-scale joint exercises with South Korea. “I oppose any steps toward normalization without denuclearization of the North Korean regime—the United States should not sacrifice joint military readiness with our allies to appease Kim Jong Un. The reason why these exercises are necessary is because of North Korea’s historically hostile behavior and repeated violations of international law. Maximum pressure means that we must utilize every tool at our disposal in equal measure—economic sanctions, diplomatic pressure, and robust military posture—to achieve our goal of complete, verifiable, irreversible denuclearization of North Korea. Decreasing pressure without concrete steps toward denuclearization by Kim Jong Un’s regime is a step in the wrong direction.” Yesterday, Gardner released a statement on the second summit between President Donald Trump and North Korean dictator Kim Jong Un. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
08.27.2018	08.27.18 Gardner, Coons Introduce Cyber Deterrence and Response Act Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Senator Chris Coons (D-DE) introduced the Cyber Deterrence and Response Act. This legislation establishes a framework to deter and respond to state-sponsored malicious cyber activity against the United States. The bipartisan bill also requires the administration to impose sanctions against all entities and persons responsible or complicit in malicious cyber activities aimed against the United States. This act is a companion to H.R.5576, which was introduced in the House by Representative Ted Yoho (R-FL). “This bipartisan legislation is another step that Congress and the Administration can take to deter foreign actors from carrying out cyberattacks against the United States,” said Senator Gardner. “Our legislation will help provide additional tools for the Administration to impose significant costs against malicious cyber actors, including state-sponsored actors, around the world that aim to endanger U.S national security and our economy.” “State-sponsored cyberattacks are a clear and persistent threat to United States,” said Senator Coons. “Rivals like Russia, China, and Iran are enhancing their cyber capabilities and targeting our electoral process, financial system, and critical infrastructure. I’m proud to introduce the Cyber Deterrence and Response Act, which will expose and impose costs on states that try to use cyberattacks to undermine American security and prosperity.” Cyber Deterrence and Response Act: Establishes a framework to deter and respond to state-sponsored malicious cyber activity against the United States; Requires the President to designate as a “critical cyber threat actor” each foreign person or each agency or instrumentality of a foreign state that the President determines to be responsible for or complicit in, or have engaged in, directly or indirectly, state-sponsored cyber activities that are reasonably likely to result in, or have contributed to, a significant threat to the national security, foreign policy, or economic health or financial stability of the United States; Mandates the imposition of sanctions from a menu of options against any “critical cyber threat actor”; and Provides an opportunity for the President to waive the imposition of sanctions and the publication of “critical cyber threat actors” on a case-by-case basis. ###
02.28.2019	02.28.19 Gardner Statement on Wheeler Confirmation Vote Washington, D.C. – Today, Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the below statement following his vote to confirm Andrew Wheeler to be the next Director of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). “In my conversations with Andrew Wheeler prior to today’s confirmation vote, we discussed how the EPA will tackle many environmental priorities specific to Colorado,” said Senator Gardner. “Under his leadership, the EPA has sped up the completion date of the Colorado Smelter Superfund site by prioritizing its funding, renewed their commitment to prioritize the remediation of Bonita Peak Superfund site, and initiated the first step in confronting the PFAS contamination issue affecting communities around Peterson Air Force Base. Andrew is also supportive of Good Samaritan legislation that I have been working on to allow qualified volunteers to clean up orphaned hard rock mines. “The EPA’s mission of protecting human health, the environment, and ensuring access to clean air and clean water is vitally important to Coloradans and all Americans, and I will continue to work with the EPA to make sure they fulfill their commitments.” Andrew Wheeler’s Qualifications to Lead the EPA: Andrew Wheeler has worked on environmental issues for 25 years. He worked at the EPA under both Democrat and Republican presidents, and was the Staff Director on the Senate’s Environment and Public Works Committee for twelve years. Wheeler was confirmed as Deputy Administrator in a bipartisan vote last April and has served as Acting Administrator of the EPA since July. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
02.28.2019	02.28.19 Gardner, Cassidy, Murkowski, Reintroduce Legislation to Expedite FERC Review of Energy Infrastructure Applications Washington, D.C. — Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO), Bill Cassidy, M.D. (R-LA), and Lisa Murkowski (R-AK) introduced the Timely Review of Infrastructure Act (S 607), legislation aimed at reducing the long wait times for federal approval of energy infrastructure projects, including LNG projects. A shortage of highly specialized engineers, scientists, and mathematicians tasked with reviewing construction applications at the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) has created a backlog of projects waiting to receive approval, and this bill would improve the FERC’s ability to hire the qualified staff it needs to process project applications in a timely, efficient manner. “LNG projects like Jordan Cove and other infrastructure projects that create jobs and bring economic opportunity to Colorado often experience longs delays due to staffing shortages at the Commission,” said Senator Gardner. “This bipartisan bill will make sure FERC has the resources they need to speed up the approval process and make sure the United States remains a global leader in energy production.” “FERC’s backlog of applications for these infrastructure projects is standing in the way of good-paying jobs for Louisiana families,” said Dr. Cassidy. “FERC needs the expertise and manpower to speed up the review process and end long wait times for new natural gas terminals that benefit Louisiana workers and their families.” “The U.S. is now the world’s largest producer of natural gas and oil, which means we are well-positioned to help other nations diversify their energy supplies and achieve a greater level of energy security,” said Senator Murkowski. “Yet, that will only become a reality if we can resolve the application backlog at FERC and allow infrastructure projects to move forward. Our bill would give FERC the ability to hire more people with the right technical expertise to streamline this process and make timely decisions.” “The U.S. LNG industry is on course for a remarkable year in 2019 with multiple projects entering service and many more navigating the regulatory process. The Timely Review of Infrastructure Act would give FERC the flexibility to bolster its highly skilled staff to handle the increased workload associated with our growing industry. This legislation would ensure a reliable and efficient review process for U.S. LNG projects and the Center for LNG is thankful that Senators Cassidy, Murkowski, and Gardner and Representative Olson are committed to providing FERC with necessary tools to support U.S. LNG growth,” said Charlie Riedl, Executive Director of the Center for LNG. FERC currently has 13 pending applications for new LNG export facilities, and four projects in the pre-filing process. Of these 17 projects, Alaska, Oregon, Florida, Arkansas, and Mississippi have one project each, with the rest in Louisiana and Texas. The Louisiana projects awaiting approval include the Driftwood LNG and Magnolia LNG site near Lake Charles, Fourchon LNG in Lafourche Parish, and the Plaquemines LNG project in Plaquemines Parish. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
02.28.2019	02.28.19 Gardner Statement on Second North Korean Summit Washington, D.C. – Today, Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the below statement regarding the second summit between President Donald Trump and North Korean dictator Kim Jong Un. “Kim Jong Un must realize that there can be no normalization without denuclearization. Kim Jong Un is a two-bit dictator who will always put his own interests and the preservation of his neo-Stalinist regime ahead of the basic human rights of the people of his country,” said Senator Gardner. “North Korea continues to be a nuclear threat to the United States and our allies, and every time we have tried to negotiate in good faith with this regime, it led to a shakedown – pure and simple. Under the North Korea Sanctions Policy and Enhancement Act and the Asia Reassurance Initiative Act, legislation I authored that was signed into law, sanctions must remain in place until there is complete, verifiable, irreversible denuclearization of the North Korean regime. Under US law, the goal of any negotiations with Pyongyang must only be to bring the regime into compliance with its international obligations – no more, no less. Until then, we must pursue the policy of maximum pressure, including full sanctions enforcement, robust military posture, and international regime isolation, in coordination with our allies and partners around the globe.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
02.27.2019	02.27.19 Gardner, Bennet, Colleagues Secure $3 Million Grant Match for Southwest Chief Washington, D.C. – U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Michael Bennet (D-CO) today announced that Amtrak at long last will provide $3 million in matching funds to complete the federal TIGER IX grant awarded in the beginning of 2018 for safety upgrades and maintenance on the train’s route in Kansas, Colorado, and New Mexico. “Amtrak’s Southwest Chief line is critical to the economic development of our rural communities throughout Southeastern Colorado, and this funding is great news for our state,” said Senator Gardner. “For years, I have worked with my colleagues and our state and local partners to support the Southwest Chief, and this funding is an important step forward and fulfills Amtrak’s previous commitment. Going forward, I’ll continue my efforts to support Colorado’s transportation priorities at the federal level.” “We joined a coalition of community leaders years ago and pledged to find the funding to keep the Southwest Chief line running,” said Senator Bennet. “Today’s TIGER Grant rewards the dedication of leaders across Southern Colorado and again validates the importance of the Southwest Chief. I'll continue to work with my colleagues from Colorado, New Mexico, and Kansas to support long-distance train service and other infrastructure projects that benefit rural communities." Earlier this month, Congress passed and the president signed the FY2019 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related (THUD) Appropriations Act, which set aside $50 million of Amtrak’s appropriations for long-term maintenance and safety improvements on lines like the Southwest Chief. Amtrak is using $3 million of these funds to match a $16 million grant successfully sought by Kansas, New Mexico, and Colorado. This grant and matching funds from the partners will result in an investment of more than $26 million in the Southwest Chief. The legislation also prohibits Amtrak from replacing long-distance train service with buses. The Southwest Chief runs daily between Chicago and Los Angeles and connects towns and cities in Kansas, Illinois, Missouri, Iowa, Colorado, New Mexico, Arizona, and California, and provides passenger train and long-distance passenger service, particularly through rural communities. Timeline of the senators’ work: This month, Congress passed and the president signed the FY2019 THUD Appropriations Act, which provides $50 million of Amtrak’s appropriations for long-term maintenance and safety improvements along the Southwest Chief. On August 1, 2018, the Senate approved the senators’ amendment to maintain Southwest Chief train services. On July 31, 2018, the senators introduced an amendment advocating for Southwest Chief. On July 26, 2018, the senators sent a letter to Amtrak CEO Richard Anderson urging him to uphold Amtrak’s side of a longstanding public-private partnership to continue operating the Southwest Chief passenger train and long-distance passenger service. On July 25, 2018, the Senate overwhelmingly passed a Sense of the Congress measure to affirm support for the long-distance rail service. In June 2018, the senators met with Amtrak CEO Richard Anderson to discuss solutions for the Southwest Chief and to encourage more transparency in Amtrak’s decision-making. On May 31, 2018, the senators sent a bipartisan, multi-state letter condemning Amtrak’s decision not to match TIGER Grant funds. ###
02.26.2019	02.26.19 House Passes Gardner-Led Public Lands Package Bill Heads to President’s Desk to be Signed into Law Washington, D.C. – Today, the House passed S. 47, the Natural Resources Management Act, the Lands Package that includes permanent reauthorization of the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF), as well as numerous other Gardner-authored bills that have a direct impact on Colorado. The legislation now heads to the President’s desk to be signed into law. Gardner released the below statement following Senate passage of the Lands Package: “After four years of working on this issue, the Senate was finally able to permanently reauthorize the crown jewel of conservation programs, the Land and Water Conservation Fund. I have championed this program throughout my time in the Senate because of how important it is to all Coloradans who love our great outdoors. The program has a direct impact on public lands in Colorado and will be used to protect our state’s natural beauty for future generations. I’m thrilled we were able to finally permanently reauthorize this commonsense program supported by Coloradans across the political spectrum. This is a great day for the future of Colorado’s public lands.” WHAT THEY ARE SAYING Conservation Groups Tout Gardner’s Leadership on Public Lands The Nature Conservancy’s Colorado State Director Carlos Fernandez: “The Land and Water Conservation Fund has been perhaps the single most critical tool for ensuring our outdoor-driven way of life here in Colorado for more than 50 years. Now, after many years of uncertainty about the program’s future, we no longer have that worry. Senator Gardner’s support and leadership means that we can plan better for future conservation work, and we can ensure the outdoor economy can continue to thrive here for the benefit of our communities and families. Permanently renewing LWCF is simply a tremendous accomplishment for our state and our nation, and we’re grateful for Senator Gardner’s leadership on behalf of our citizens and our lands and waters.” LWCF Coalition Spokesman Jay Leutze: “Senator Gardner's steadfast support of this program has been instrumental in keeping the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee focused on the prize of permanent reauthorization. Boots on the ground visits to key sites in Colorado that have received funding from LWCF are the best way to connect with what is at stake in this battle and Senator Gardner spends a lot of time in Colorado's iconic outdoor destinations. All of our best champions are ardent advocates for their own treasured landscapes and that's where Senator Gardner's passion was born." Colorado Canyons Association Op-Ed in the Grand Junction Daily Sentinel: “Colorado Sen. Cory Gardner deserves a great deal of credit for helping to shepherd the measure through the GOP-controlled Senate and for fighting off amendments that likely would have killed the bill.” The Conservation Fund’s Colorado Field Representative Christine Quinlan: “The Conservation Fund is thrilled to see permanent reauthorization of the Land and Water Conservation Fund pass the Senate, as LWCF is a critical tool in Colorado and nationally for preserving land for outdoor recreation, conservation, and economic development. U.S. Senator Gardner joined us last year at Black Canyon of the Gunnison National Park to celebrate a LWCF success that added nearly 2,500 acres to the Park, increasing access for hikers and anglers and supporting local economic development. He and the Colorado congressional delegation have been fighting hard to keep LWCF available to protect our nation’s greatest places.” The Trust for Public Land’s Colorado and Southwest Director Jim Petterson: “Today, Coloradoans voicing their strong support for more access to parks, trails and open spaces were finally heard in Washington, D.C. The Senate passed legislation to permanently reauthorize the Land and Water Conservation Fund. From neighborhood parks to national parks, LWCF brings real benefits to our urban and rural communities and economies, and is an issue that transcends the partisan divide. I want to thank Senator Cory Gardner for his leadership in pressing for permanent reauthorization of LWCF, and for working in a bipartisan fashion to win Senate approval. We look forward to working with him to get LWCF authorization over the finish line in the coming weeks.” Boone and Crockett Club President Timothy C. Brady: “We thank Senator Cory Gardner for his work in the passage of this critical legislation. This package is a testament of the strength and unity of the sportsmen's community, and we urge the House of Representatives to pass it as well.” Backcountry Hunters & Anglers’ Conservation Director John Gale: “S. 47 is the most significant public lands package to move through Congress in over a decade. Permanently reauthorizing the Land and Water Conservation Fund and dedicating resources to enhancing public access have long been top priorities for hunters and anglers, and Sen. Gardner has been a staunch champion from the very beginning. We applaud his leadership in helping advance a critical package of conservation measures that not only benefits sportsmen and women but also delivers greater certainty for our public lands, waters and wildlife. As a fellow Coloradan, I appreciate his commitment to doing things the Colorado way by setting politics aside in order to pass meaningful legislation guided by unity and bipartisanship for the benefit of our natural resources and outdoor heritage.” Colorado Trout Unlimited Executive Director David Nickum: “For more than 50 years the Land and Water Conservation Fund has invested in our public lands and outdoor recreation, securing access for anglers to world-class fisheries like the Gunnison Gorge and helping conserve special landscapes like the Baca Ranch in the San Luis Valley. We were alarmed that Congress allowed the program to lapse last year and deeply appreciate Senator Gardner’s hard work to get Senate passage for LWCF’s permanent reauthorization as part of this bipartisan package.” Pew Charitable Trusts Letter to Senator Gardner: “Coloradans value their state’s waterways, wilderness, and outdoor heritage, and Colorado’s public lands sustain a growing outdoor recreation economy. This bipartisan package underscores the importance that you and your constituents place on protecting Colorado’s and America’s spectacular lands and waters. Thank you again for your leadership on this issue. We look forward to working with you to see the Natural Resources Management Act enacted into law, and on future measures to conserve Colorado’s public lands.” IN THE NEWS CBS 4 DENVER: Public Lands Bill, Pushed by Gardner, Passes U.S. Senate Gardner authored several provisions in the bill including adding land to the Florrissant National Monument, adding Amache — the Japanese internment site — to the national park system and a measure to protect endangered fish. The reauthorization of the Land and Water Conservation Fund will also provide $250 million to projects in Colorado. DURANGO HERALD: Colorado Senators vote in favor of renewing Land and Water Conservation Fund “Public lands are a huge part of who we are in Colorado. It’s a huge part of our economy,” Gardner said in an interview with The Durango Herald. “I’m a Coloradan, and Coloradans support the outdoors.” The LWCF has seen to the creation and maintenance of national parks, federal reserves and community parks throughout Colorado, including Rocky Mountain National Park. The Outdoor Industry Association, a trade organization, reported LWCF contributed about $8.7 million to fund and maintain Rocky Mountain National Park. FOX31: Senate backs massive public lands, conservation bill pushed by Gardner The bill is the culmination of years of negotiations in the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, which includes Colorado Sen. Cory Gardner. The package has nine Colorado-specific bills in it. “After four years of working on this issue, the Senate was finally able to permanently reauthorize the crown jewel of conservation programs, the Land and Water Conservation Fund,” Gardner said in a statement. COLORADO SUN: Colorado senators’ bipartisanship offers hope for saving America’s most important conservation program Sen. Michael Bennet and Sen. Cory Gardner have been at the forefront of preserving this vital program and working to ensure the permanent and full funding promised for LWCF as it was intended. PUEBLO CHIEFTAIN: US Senate approves major lands bill Colorado Sens. Michael Bennet and Cory Gardner both supported the far-reaching bipartisan measure, which now goes to the House for consideration and likely adoption because it includes projects for many states. Gardner, the Republican, and Bennet, the Democrat, both said a vital part of the bill is the reauthorization of the 50-year-old Land and Water Conservation Fund, which expired last year but has been used by states to pay for public land purchases, protections and other conservation efforts. DENVER POST: Senate passes public lands package, including permanent authorization for Land and Water Conservation Fund A package of more than 100 bills that would increase conservation and access to the outdoors nationwide passed the U.S. Senate Tuesday 92 to 8. Senate Bill 47, which now heads to the U.S. House of Representatives, is the culmination of years of negotiations in the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, which includes Colorado’s Republican Sen. Cory Gardner. AP: Senate backs major public lands, conservation bill Lawmakers from both parties said the bill’s most important provision was to permanently reauthorize the federal Land and Water Conservation Fund, which supports conservation and outdoor recreation projects across the country. The program expired last fall after Congress could not agree on language to extend it. NY TIMES: Senate Passes a Sweeping Land Conservation Bill Among the most consequential provisions is the permanent reauthorization of the Land and Water Conservation Fund, a federal program established in 1964 that uses fees and royalties paid by oil and gas companies drilling in federal waters to pay for onshore conservation programs. WaPo: The Senate just passed the decade’s biggest public lands package. Here’s what’s in it. The measure protects 1.3 million acres as wilderness, the nation’s most stringent protection, which prohibits even roads and motorized vehicles. It permanently withdraws more than 370,000 acres of land from mining around two national parks, including Yellowstone, and permanently authorizes a program to spend offshore-drilling revenue on conservation efforts KWGN DENVER Millions of acres of wilderness may soon be protected thanks to a bill pushed by Colorado Senator Cory Gardner. It’s the most sweeping conservation bill in a decade, in Colorado alone the measure would add new access to 250,000 acres of land. KWGN DENVER Colorado republican Senator Cory Gardner says one measure he cosponsored will help improve the fight against wildfires by improving technology using GPS location for crews and drones. FOX 21 NEWS The federal Land and Water Conservation Fund which our parks have relied on since 1964 expired in September after Congress could not agree on language to extend it, but on Tuesday the Senate approved the bill and sent it to the House. Senator Cory Gardner who sponsored the bill says this is important to Coloradans. KUSA 9 NEWS DENVER Senator Cory Gardner of Colorado is celebrating a win after the Senate overwhelmingly voted 92-8 to approve the Land and Water Conservation Fund… It’s a landmark public lands and parks bill bringing a quarter of a billion dollars for projects here to Colorado. ###
02.26.2019	02.26.19 Gardner, Rosen, and Colleagues Introduce the Bipartisan Hire Student Veterans Act Washington, D.C. – Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Jacky Rosen (D-NV) introduced today with a group of their bipartisan colleagues the Hire Student Veterans Act. This legislation would expand the existing Work Opportunity Tax Credit (WOTC) to ensure that all student veterans using their GI benefits can take advantage of valuable paid internships or work opportunities while in school. “It's critically important that we promote educational opportunities for our veterans to ensure those who have served our nation have access to the experience they need to excel in the workforce,” said Senator Gardner. “This bipartisan legislation removes barriers to part-time employment and incentivizes employers to hire student veterans. I'll continue fighting for our brave military members to make sure they have the tools needed for a successful transition to civilian life.” “After talking to countless veterans and military families across Nevada, I decided to introduce bipartisan legislation to incentivize businesses to hire our student vets who are currently using their GI benefits to study,” said Senator Rosen. “I’ve met with organizations like Work for Warriors and UNLV Rebel Vets on how we can help veterans find good-paying jobs. I’m confident this commonsense legislation will put student vets on the pathway towards success and will continue working on bipartisan solutions to help our veterans transition back to civilian life.” “We applaud efforts to provide our student veterans with opportunities to find gainful and meaningful employment to advance their careers,” said Lauren Augustine, Vice President of Government Affairs with Student Veterans of America. "By encouraging businesses to hire student veterans for paid internship opportunities, this legislation will help prepare the student veteran population for success.” Background: Currently, the WOTC is limited in its application to hiring veterans. Employers can only qualify for the credit by hiring veterans who have a service-connected disability or have been unemployed for more than four weeks. There is also a stringent 400-hour per year work requirement. As the law stands, the WOTC does not incentivize employers to hire student vets part-time during the school year or for a summer job and does not reflect the reality of today’s job environment in which new college graduates often need work experience in order to obtain even an entry-level career-track job. This crucial legislation seeks to make three important changes to the Work Opportunity Tax Credit that will incentivize businesses to hire more student veterans, ultimately helping to move their careers forward. The Hire Student Veterans Act will: Automatically qualify employers who hire student veterans using their GI Bill benefits for WOTC’s 40% tax credit on the first $6,000 of a new employee’s first-year wages. Reduce the existing tax credit’s 400-hour work requirement to 120 hours if a newly-hired employee is a veteran using their GI Bill benefits, allowing a student veteran to work part-time, including in a paid internship during the summer or semester; and Directly incentivize employers to hire more student veterans for part-time work and paid internships. Student veterans deserve full benefits and fair treatment both in service and their civilian lives and Senator Gardner will continue to work with his colleagues on both sides of the aisle on legislation to support student veterans. In December 2018, Gardner introduced the Fix IOUs for Student Veterans Act to make the VA pay student veterans money they are entitled to after sending a letter to VA Secretary Wilkie mandating the situation be fixed. Gardner also recently launched his VA Readiness Initiative that empowers transitioning service members and promotes success in civilian careers. ###
02.25.2019	02.25.19 9/11 Responders & Survivors, Jon Stewart Join Members of Congress to Unveil the Bipartisan Never Forget the Heroes: Permanent Authorization of the September 11th Victim Compensation Fund Act and Call for Swift Passage Gardner, Gillibrand, Schumer announce bipartisan legislation to fully fund and permanently reauthorize the September 11th Victim Compensation Fund and prevent announced cuts to compensation awards. View video from press conference here Washington, D.C. - 9/11 first responders, survivors, and their families joined with Jon Stewart, Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), and Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, along with a group of their colleagues in the House to announce the bipartisan Never Forget the Heroes: Permanent Authorization of the September 11th Victim Compensation Fund Act and call for its swift passage. The bipartisan legislation would ensure that all 9/11 first responders and survivors who have been injured by the toxins at Ground Zero and have certified 9/11 illnesses would receive their full compensation through the September 11th Victim Compensation Fund (VCF) now and into the future as more become ill with 9/11 cancers. The bill would also close the funding gap recently announced by the VCF Special Master. “I will never forget the images of the brave men and women running into danger to save lives during the 9/11 terrorist attacks,” said Senator Gardner. “Unfortunately, thousands of first responders and survivors, including many who reside in my home state of Colorado, suffer from illnesses and diseases from toxins at Ground Zero. I'm proud to join in introducing this bipartisan legislation to close funding gaps in the Victim Compensation Fund to make sure these heroes and their families receive the care they need and deserve." “Just over a week ago, 9/11 heroes all over the country learned the horrible news that the September 11th Victim Compensation Fund will need to make severe cuts. Cancer rates in the 9/11 first responder community are rising faster than ever before, and that means our 9/11 heroes are going to need the VCF more urgently than ever before. Congress must not sit idly by ignoring this suffering and passing it off as someone else’s problem while drastic cuts are made to the VCF program,” said Senator Gillibrand. “We must pass this bipartisan bill to make the VCF permanent with full funding so that when our 9/11 heroes get that terrifying call from the doctor, they’ll at least have the peace of mind that the VCF will be there for them and their families. We must honor our 9/11 heroes, and that means giving them the support they earned and deserve and urgently need.” “We fought for and passed the 9/11 Victims Compensation Fund to provide peace of mind to those sickened after the horrific attack,” said Senator Schumer. For too many, ailments and disease from exposure to that toxic airborne brew have taken years to show up and – as the need for the fund grows – the chance it may not have adequate resources to take care of our heroes is just unacceptable. There is no time to waste in passing the bill to fully fund –and make permanent--the VCF so that any 9/11first responder who might get sick will get the care they earned.” “We have a grand opportunity to finally do the right thing and allow those who always answered the call for us to know that we have their backs,” said Jon Stewart. Background On February 15, 2019, the September 11th Victim Compensation Fund announced that due to a funding shortfall, injured and ill 9/11 responders and survivors will receive cuts to the awards that they were expecting of 50% for pending claims and 70% for future claims. In the years since 9/11/2001, thousands of 9/11 responders and survivors have become ill and many have lost their lives from exposure to a toxic cocktail of burning chemicals, pulverized drywall and powdered cement that was present at Ground Zero. After years of urging Congress to act, in 2010 and again in 2015, legislation was passed to provide medical monitoring and treatment through the World Trade Center Health Program and compensation through the September 11th Victim Compensation Fund for thousands made sick by the toxins at Ground Zero as well at the Pentagon and the Shanksville, PA crash site. Now, after waiting years for compensation that they need and deserve, thousands are facing dramatically reduced awards and unless Congress acts, the VCF will actually be closing next year just as thousands more 9/11 responders and survivors are expected to be diagnosed with 9/11 cancers. This legislation is designed to ensure that the VCF is fully funded and will remain open for those that will become ill in the future. NOTE: Full video of press conference available here ###
02.25.2019	02.25.19 Gardner Statement on PFAS Exposure Assessment Near Peterson Air Force Base Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the following statement on the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry (ATSDR) announcement to conduct exposure assessment on per and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS) in El Paso County near Peterson Air Force Base. “PFAS contamination in Colorado and across the nation is a serious issue that will require a unified state, local, and federal response, and during my meeting with EPA Acting Administrator Wheeler, I directly expressed my concerns about addressing the immediate and long term impacts of this challenge,” said Senator Gardner. “I will continue working to make sure Coloradans have access to clean and safe drinking water and am thankful the CDC and ATSDR were responsive to efforts to include El Paso County in their long term study of the health effects stemming from PFAS contamination.” The CDC/ATSDR are assessing PFAS exposure in areas surrounding U.S. military bases in order to provide an analysis about PFAS levels in these communities. Part of this assessment is testing randomly selected people from the community and examining their exposure levels via blood and urine samples. After conducting such tests, scientists will be able to assess the level of exposure seen in the community and the health risks associated with said levels. The health assessment is set to begin in 2019 and continue throughout 2020. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
02.21.2019	02.21.19 Gardner, Murkowski, Cantwell, Wyden, Feinstein Reintroduce Bill to Help Prepare and Protect Communities from Landslides Washington, D.C. – U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO), Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), Maria Cantwell (D-WA), Ron Wyden (D-OR), and Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), recently reintroduced bipartisan legislation to improve the science and coordination needed to help local communities prepare for and respond to landslides and other natural hazards. S. 529, the National Landslide Preparedness Act, will help protect communities and property, save lives, and improve emergency preparedness and planning by targeting key gaps in current science and mapping critical to understanding landslide hazards and risks. “In 2014, Colorado experienced the longest landslide in our state’s history. This tragic event upended lives and devastated communities,” said Senator Gardner. “I’m pleased to join my colleagues in introducing this important bipartisan legislation to improve emergency coordination efforts and address the vulnerability of our state’s infrastructure brought on by these natural catastrophes.” “Alaska has been dealing with the impacts of landslides for decades, most recently as a result of the southcentral earthquake last November,” said Senator Murkowski. “Due to the great work by the U.S. Geological Survey, we had quick access to accurate data on high-risk areas for landslides, and were able to warn people accordingly. This legislation will enable the Survey and other agencies to continue making those projections to help keep communities safe.” “Five years ago, we saw how devastating landslides can be, when a landslide tragically killed 43 people and caused millions of dollars in damage in Oso, Washington,” said Senator Cantwell. “This bill will help keep communities and infrastructure safe by improving preparedness for landslides and other natural hazards.” “The safety of Oregonians and families across America threatened by landslides and other natural disasters must be a priority for Congress,” said Senator Wyden. “To help keep communities safe, they must be prepared. That means making sure they have access to the technology and resources needed to be ready when the next disaster strikes.” “Too many Californians have lost their homes, businesses or lives to devastating landslides, including the mudslides that struck Sausalito last week,” said Senator Feinstein. “As we experience more extreme weather and severe wildfires due to climate change, the risk for deadly landslides will also increase. We must be ready. Our legislation will help communities identify risks and better prepare for future landslides.” Specifically, the legislation would establish a National Landslide Hazards Reduction Program at the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) to better identify and understand landslide risks, protect communities, save lives and property, and help improve emergency preparedness. In addition, the bill would direct the USGS to implement a 3D Elevation Program to update and coordinate the collection of elevation data across the country using enhanced, high-resolution data. Enhanced elevation data helps communities plan for and respond to natural hazards; update the nation’s topographical maps; and inform uses including public safety, national security, planning, infrastructure, transportation, agriculture, and natural resource management. High-resolution elevation data has been collected for only about a quarter of the United States. Much of the country relies on data collected more than 30 years ago using older techniques that do not provide the same resolution and benefits. According to an assessment conducted in partnership with the USGS, the creation of a nationwide program, as outlined in this bill, has the potential to generate $1.2 billion to $13 billion annually in new benefits. NOTE: Bill text is available here. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
02.20.2019	02.20.19 Gardner Statement on Space Force Announcement Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statement in response to President Trump signing a directive regarding the Space Force. “Colorado is proud to support our nation’s military space operations today and into the future,” said Senator Gardner. “I look forward to reviewing the Administration’s proposal for expanded space operation and development. Peterson Air Force Base in Colorado Springs is home to North American Aerospace Defense Command, United States Northern Command, and already houses the Air Force Space Command. Further, Schriever Air Force Base is home to the 50th Space Wing, as well as the Space Innovation and Development Center, the 310th Space Wing, the Missile Defense Integration and Operations Center, and the Joint Functional Component Command for Integrated Missile Defense. Colorado is uniquely positioned to support the new Space Force headquarters and it is my hope that the continued expansion of military space operations will ensure the United States maintains its position as the global leader in space.” Senator Gardner is a strong advocate for Colorado’s aerospace industry. He has fought to bring new space jobs to Colorado, and serves on a key committee with oversight of U.S. space and aerospace policies. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy
02.14.2019	02.14.19 Gardner Announces VA Readiness Initiative Includes 6 Bills to Help Veterans Washington, D.C. – Today, Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced the launch of his VA Readiness Initiative. This new initiative includes a package of several bipartisan Gardner-authored bills that will ensure the federal government is always ready to assist veterans and prepared to fulfill the promises we have made to them. Gardner’s VA Readiness Initiative consists of four pillars: Expanding Access to Services, Encouraging Innovation, VA Accountability, and Empowering Transitioning Service Members. Gardner has championed efforts, including through the introduction of legislation, that are pertinent to each one of these pillars and collectively constitute his VA Readiness Initiative. “I’m thrilled to launch my VA Readiness Initiative and fight for the well-being of veterans and their families. The United States should always be ready to provide our veterans with the care they deserve,”said Senator Gardner. “We must honor the immeasurable debt we owe to past and present military members for their dedicated service by ensuring there are tools and support to navigate civilian life.” Pillar One: Expanding Access to Services—reducing regulatory barriers and promoting expeditious care, both at the VA and in the community Supporting Homeless Veterans: The Gardner-authored CARE for Veterans' Dependents Act of 2019would help certain homeless shelters provide care to veteran dependents. Improving Access to Care: A Gardner-backed provision in the VA MISSION Act eliminates the 30-day/40-mile limit on community care, giving veterans more access to private and local medical care regardless of their situation or location. Pillar Two: Encouraging Innovation—leveraging modern technologies and piloting inventive solutions to health care challenges Leveraging Big Data: The Gardner-led Department of Energy Veterans’ Health Initiative Act would promote innovative approaches to suicide prevention using high-performance computing at Department of Energy National Labs. Championing Hiring Process Reforms: The Gardner-authored Veterans Improved Access and Care Act would authorize a pilot program to expedite medical professional hiring at VA facilities experiencing shortages. Pillar Three: VA Accountability—making bureaucratic incompetence and preventable mistakes a thing of the past Reforming VA Contracting: The Gardner-authored VA Procurement Efficiency and Transparency Act would improve contracting competitions to eliminate fraud. Increasing Medical Oversight: The Gardner-authored Department of Veterans Affairs Provider Accountability Act would require reporting of medical adverse actions committed by VA doctors to guarantee quality care for patients. Ensuring Complete Forever GI Bill Implementation: Following reports in 2018 that the VA failed to provide accurate GI Benefits, Gardner immediately demanded a fix and student repayment and introduced the Fix IOUs for Student Veterans Act to ensure student repayment. He remains committed to full, stable implementation of the Forever GI Bill. Pillar Four: Empowering Transitioning Service Members—promoting civilian career success Encouraging Entrepreneurship—Gardner has been working with the Senate Small Business Committee on protecting, improving, and enhancing the Boots to Business program. Promoting STEM—Gardner is a cosponsor of the Supporting Veterans in STEM Careers Act, legislation that will encourage veterans to enter STEM fields. NOTE: To download Gardner’s VA Readiness Initiative pamphlet click here. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
02.13.2019	02.13.19 Gardner, Menendez, Graham, Cardin, Shaheen Introduce Bipartisan Legislation to Hold Russia Accountable Washington, D.C. – U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO), Bob Menendez (D-NJ), Lindsey Graham (R-SC), Ben Cardin (D-MD), and Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH) today introduced the Defending American Security from Kremlin Aggression Act (DASKA) of 2019. The comprehensive legislation seeks to increase economic, political, and diplomatic pressure on the Russian Federation in response to Russia’s interference in democratic processes abroad, malign influence in Syria, and aggression against Ukraine, including in the Kerch Strait. The legislation establishes a comprehensive policy response to better position the U.S. government to address Kremlin aggression by creating new policy offices on cyber defenses and sanctions coordination. The bill stands up for NATO and prevents the President from pulling the U.S. out of the Alliance without a Senate vote. It also increases sanctions pressure on Moscow for its interference in democratic processes abroad and continued aggression against Ukraine. “Putin’s Russia is an outlaw regime that is hell-bent on undermining international law and destroying the U.S.-led liberal global order,” said Senator Gardner. “From the invasion of Ukraine, carrying out chemical attacks on NATO soil, support for the heinous Assad regime, violations of arms control treaties, and meddling in U.S. elections, Russia’s actions necessitate the strongest possible response from the United States. This is why I am glad to join with my colleagues in this legislation to impose additional strong sanctions to deter Russia’s malign behavior, including my provision to require the State Department to determine whether Russia merits the designation as a state sponsor of terror. With this bill, Congress is demonstrating firm bipartisan resolve against Kremlin’s mendacity and I hope it will move quickly to be signed into law.” “President Trump’s willful paralysis in the face of Kremlin aggression has reached a boiling point in Congress,” said Senator Menendez. “Putin’s actions cannot be tolerated, and the consequences of inaction are quickly compounding – further humanitarian disaster in Syria, regional instability, kidnapping of Ukrainian sailors and seizure of ships, and the steady erosion of international norms. One thing is increasingly clear: Moscow will continue to push until it meets genuine resistance. That is why we are introducing a proposal to actually address the realities of the Kremlin threat in a holistic way, all while sending a crystal-clear message to our adversaries that the U.S Congress will protect our institutions, allies and values even if the President chooses not to do so.” “Our goal is to change the status quo and impose meaningful sanctions and measures against Putin’s Russia. He should cease and desist meddling in the U.S. electoral process, halt cyberattacks on American infrastructure, remove Russia from Ukraine, and stop efforts to create chaos in Syria,” said Senator Graham. “The sanctions and other measures contained in this bill are the most hard-hitting ever imposed – and a direct result of Putin’s continued desire to undermine American democracy. The sanctions and measures we propose are designed to respond in the strongest possible fashion.” “Congress continues to take the lead in defending U.S. national security against continuing Russian aggression against democratic institutions at home and abroad,” said Senator Cardin. “I’m pleased to work with my colleagues on a comprehensive, bipartisan effort to counter Russia’s pervasive attacks on our electoral systems and cyber infrastructure. At least one branch of government fully understands the need to further protect our country and our allies from a Kremlin that shows no sign of abiding by or respecting international norms.” “Russia’s continued aggression against the United States and our allies, and its repeated attacks on Ukraine’s sovereignty must be countered with a clear, bipartisan condemnation from Congress,” said Senator Shaheen. “This legislation builds on previous efforts in Congress to hold Russia accountable for its bellicose behavior against the United States and its determination to destabilize our global world order. I urge Senate Leadership to move swiftly on this legislation, and I’ll keep working across the aisle to prioritize measures that safeguard our nation from adversaries who threaten our democracy.” The reintroduced version of DASKA includes the following new elements: Sanctions in Response to Kremlin interference in democratic institutions abroad · Sanctions on Russian banks that support Russian efforts to undermine democratic institutions in other countries · Sanctions on investment in Russian LNG projects outside of Russia · Sanctions on Russia’s cyber sector · Sanctions on Russian sovereign debt · Sanctions on political figures, oligarchs, and family members and other persons that facilitate illicit and corrupt activities, directly or indirectly, on behalf of Vladimir Putin Sanctions in Response to Kremlin aggression in Ukraine · Sanctions on 24 FSB agents deemed complicit in the Kerch Strait attack, in response to the 24 Ukrainian sailors currently detained by Russia · Sanctions on Russia’s shipbuilding sector in the event that Russia violates the freedom of navigation in the Kerch Strait or anywhere else in the world · Sanctions with respect to support for the development of crude oil resources in Russia · Sanctions on Russian stated owned energy projects outside of Russia Other key provisions of the legislation include: · A strong statement of support for NATO and a requirement for two-thirds of the United States Senate to vote to leave NATO · Provisions expediting the transfer of excess defense articles to NATO countries to reduce some NATO countries’ dependence on Russian military equipment · The creation of a National Fusion Center to Respond to Hybrid Threats. The aim of this center is to better prepare and respond to Russian disinformation and other emerging threats emanating from the Russian Federation · The establishment of an Office of Cyberspace and the Digital Economy within the Department of State. This office will lead diplomatic efforts relating to international cybersecurity, Internet access, Internet freedom, the digital economy, cybercrime, deterrence and responses to cyber threats · Provisions aimed to pressure the Russian government to halt its obstruction of international efforts to investigate chemical weapons attacks as well as punish the Russian government for chemical weapons production and use · The International Cybercrime Prevention Act which would give prosecutors the ability to shut down botnets and other digital infrastructure that can be used for a wide range of illegal activity; create a new criminal violation for individuals who have knowingly targeted critical infrastructure, including dams, power plants, hospitals, and election infrastructure; and prohibit cybercriminals from selling access to botnets to carry out cyber-attacks · The Defending the Integrity of Voting Systems Act which would allow the Department of Justice to pursue federal charges for the hacking of any voting system that is used in a federal election · A requirement for the Secretary of State to submit a determination of whether the Russian Federation meets the criteria for designation as a state sponsor of terrorism · A requirement for domestic title insurance companies to report information on the beneficial owners of entities that purchase residential real estate in high-value transactions · Reinforcement for the State Department Office of Sanctions Coordination · A report on the net worth and assets of Vladimir Putin · A report on the assassination of Russian opposition leader Boris Nemtsov · A reauthorization of the Countering Russia Influence Fund, which would provide assistance to European countries vulnerable to Kremlin interference ###
02.13.2019	02.13.19 Gardner, Manchin, Moran, Cassidy, Collins Introduce VA Accountability Legislation Washington, D.C. – U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO), Joe Manchin (D-WV), Jerry Moran (R-KS), Bill Cassidy (R-LA), and Susan Collins (R-ME) introduced the VA Provider Accountability Act, legislation that would bring much needed accountability to the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). A troubling GAO report from 2017 revealed an unacceptable trend of VA facilities failing to report providers who made major medical errors to the National Practitioner Data Bank and the relevant state licensing boards responsible for tracking dangerous practitioners. As a result, these practitioners can go into private practice or move across state lines without disclosing prior mistakes to patients or state regulators. A 2017 USA Today story uncovered specific, horrific medical care failures and mistakes that the VA allowed to continue and concealed. The VA Provider Accountability Act would solve this problem by requiring the VA to inform the National Practitioner Data Bank and state licensing boards of major adverse actions committed by medical providers at the VA. Additionally, it would prevent the VA from signing settlements with fired employees to hide major medical mistakes in their personnel files. “The vast majority of VA employees and medical providers provide exceptional care to our veterans and we are grateful for their service,” said Gardner. “However, there is no excuse for allowing certain medical providers with a history of committing major medical errors to continue putting other patients at risk. We owe every single veteran the best possible care, and we can only provide that care with increased accountability. This bipartisan bill will protect veterans, and potential patients outside the VA system, from mistakes made by medical providers who have proven themselves to be dangerous.” “I originally cosponsored this bill in response to a 2017 GAO report that showed the VA has an alarming pattern of incompetence in treating VA patients without adequately holding those care providers accountable when they make mistakes,” said Manchin. “VA has made attempts to correct this on their own, but I believe strict guidelines must be implemented to assure our veterans they are receiving the highest quality of care. This is problem should not have happened in the first place, and I believe our legislation provides a fix that can be supported by my colleagues on both sides of the aisle.” “It is critical that those on the front lines of caring for our veterans are held to the highest level of accountability,” said Moran. “For too long, mistakes made by VA providers have been concealed by the VA and not reported to the appropriate state and federal databases. I am introducing this legislation to make certain no adverse medical outcome impacting a former servicemember is swept under the rug. Our veterans deserve a VA that is worthy of their service and sacrifice, and holding providers accountable is an important step to restoring trust in the VA.” “As a doctor, I believe the patient comes first. When VA providers make mistakes, transparency and accountability protects veterans best,” said Dr. Cassidy. “Covering up mistakes does not protect patients. This bill makes it more likely veterans get good care.” “Our nation’s veterans deserve access to the high-quality health care that they have earned through their service to our country. As the daughter of a World War II veteran, I was shocked and outraged by recent investigations that found far too many instances of patients’ care being mismanaged by medical providers,” said Senator Collins. “By requiring the VA to report these issues in a timely manner and prohibiting the concealment of serious medical errors in settlements with fired VA employees, this legislation would help restore accountability, protect veterans, and enhance the care that veterans receive at the VA.” Paralyzed Veterans of America (PVA) and the Federation of State Medical Boards (FSMB) have announced their support for this legislation. ###
02.12.2019	02.12.19 Gardner Successfully Includes LWCF Permanent Reauthorization in Senate-Passed Legislation Several Additional Gardner-Authored Priorities Included in Lands Package Click here to download Gardner’s video statement Click here to download Gardner’s remarks on the Senate floor Washington, D.C. - Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statement after the Senate approved a public lands package, including permanent reauthorization of the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF), as well as numerous other Gardner-authored bills that have a direct impact on Colorado. Since his election to the Senate, Gardner has been an LWCF champion. Gardner spoke at an LWCF press conference touting the importance of making the LWCF program permanent by promoting its 100-day campaign in June, and led another press conference reiterating the need for this program in November. In July 2018, Gardner spoke on the Senate floor to address the necessity of this program being fully funded in order to conserve and preserve public lands, and joined his colleagues in a bipartisan effort to permanently reauthorize LWCF by introducing an amendment to the appropriations bill. In December of 2018, after years of work, Gardner played a key role in securing the first up-or-down vote on permanent reauthorization in the program’s history. “After four years of working on this issue, the Senate was finally able to permanently reauthorize the crown jewel of conservation programs, the Land and Water Conservation Fund,” said Senator Gardner. “I have championed this program throughout my time in the Senate because of how important it is to all Coloradans who love our great outdoors. The program has a direct impact on public lands in Colorado and will be used to protect our state’s natural beauty for future generations. I’m thrilled we were able to finally permanently reauthorize this commonsense program supported by Coloradans across the political spectrum. This is a great day for the future of Colorado’s public lands.” “The Land and Water Conservation Fund has been perhaps the single most critical tool for ensuring our outdoor-driven way of life here in Colorado for more than 50 years. Now, after many years of uncertainty about the program’s future, we no longer have that worry. Senator Gardner’s support and leadership means that we can plan better for future conservation work, and we can ensure the outdoor economy can continue to thrive here for the benefit of our communities and families. Permanently renewing LWCF is simply a tremendous accomplishment for our state and our nation, and we’re grateful for Senator Gardner’s leadership on behalf of our citizens and our lands and waters.” - Carlos Fernandez, The Nature Conservancy’s Colorado State Director "Senator Gardner's steadfast support of this program has been instrumental in keeping the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee focused on the prize of permanent reauthorization. Boots on the ground visits to key sites in Colorado that have received funding from LWCF are the best way to connect with what is at stake in this battle and Senator Gardner spends a lot of time in Colorado's iconic outdoor destinations. All of our best champions are ardent advocates for their own treasured landscapes and that's where Senator Gardner's passion was born." - Jay Leutze, Spokesman for the Land and Water Conservation Fund, President of Southern Appalachian Highlands Conservancy “The Conservation Fund is thrilled to see permanent reauthorization of the Land and Water Conservation Fund pass the Senate, as LWCF is a critical tool in Colorado and nationally for preserving land for outdoor recreation, conservation, and economic development. U.S. Senator Gardner joined us last year at Black Canyon of the Gunnison National Park to celebrate a LWCF success that added nearly 2,500 acres to the Park, increasing access for hikers and anglers and supporting local economic development. He and the Colorado congressional delegation have been fighting hard to keep LWCF available to protect our nation’s greatest places.”- Christine Quinlan, Colorado Field Representative for The Conservation Fund. “Today, Coloradoans voicing their strong support for more access to parks, trails and open spaces were finally heard in Washington, D.C. The Senate passed legislation to permanently reauthorize the Land and Water Conservation Fund. From neighborhood parks to national parks, LWCF brings real benefits to our urban and rural communities and economies, and is an issue that transcends the partisan divide. I want to thank Senator Cory Gardner for his leadership in pressing for permanent reauthorization of LWCF, and for working in a bipartisan fashion to win Senate approval. We look forward to working with him to get LWCF authorization over the finish line in the coming weeks.” - Jim Petterson, Colorado and Southwest Director for The Trust for Public Land. “We thank Senator Cory Gardner for his work in the passage of this critical legislation. This package is a testament of the strength and unity of the sportsmen's community, and we urge the House of Representatives to pass it as well.” - Timothy C. Brady, Boone and Crockett Club President “S. 47 is the most significant public lands package to move through Congress in over a decade. Permanently reauthorizing the Land and Water Conservation Fund and dedicating resources to enhancing public access have long been top priorities for hunters and anglers, and Sen. Gardner has been a staunch champion from the very beginning. We applaud his leadership in helping advance a critical package of conservation measures that not only benefits sportsmen and women but also delivers greater certainty for our public lands, waters and wildlife. As a fellow Coloradan, I appreciate his commitment to doing things the Colorado way by setting politics aside in order to pass meaningful legislation guided by unity and bipartisanship for the benefit of our natural resources and outdoor heritage.” - John Gale, Conservation Director, Backcountry Hunters & Anglers, Pine, Colorado “For more than 50 years the Land and Water Conservation Fund has invested in our public lands and outdoor recreation, securing access for anglers to world-class fisheries like the Gunnison Gorge and helping conserve special landscapes like the Baca Ranch in the San Luis Valley. We were alarmed that Congress allowed the program to lapse last year and deeply appreciate Senator Gardner’s hard work to get Senate passage for LWCF’s permanent reauthorization as part of this bipartisan package.” - David Nickum, Executive Director of Colorado Trout Unlimited “For sportsmen or women, there are few programs as crucial for our outdoor traditions as the Land and Water Conservation Fund. The bipartisan support for the program is a testament to the importance of the program for all Americans. Not only will the Natural Resources Management Act permanently authorize LWCF, but numerous provisions will help to secure high-quality fish and wildlife habitat on public lands and maintain access for hunters and anglers throughout the country. We applaud the tireless and cooperative work to get this bill through the Senate and look forward to helping secure quick passage in the House of Representatives.” - Corey Fisher, Public Land Policy Director, Trout Unlimited “Coloradans value their state’s waterways, wilderness, and outdoor heritage, and Colorado’s public lands sustain a growing outdoor recreation economy. This bipartisan package underscores the importance that you and your constituents place on protecting Colorado’s and America’s spectacular lands and waters. Thank you again for your leadership on this issue. We look forward to working with you to see the Natural Resources Management Act enacted into law, and on future measures to conserve Colorado’s public lands.” - John Gilroy, Director of U.S. Public Lands Conservation for Pew Charitable Trusts, in letter to Senator Gardner Several other Colorado-specific bills that Gardner authored were included in the final lands package: Gardner continued: “After working on many of these bills that will help Colorado, I’m excited we were finally able to get them across the finish line. Colorado’s great outdoors are a national treasure and I’ll always fight to protect our public lands for Coloradans to enjoy.” Gardner-authored bills included in the package: Crags, Colorado Land Exchange Act Bolts Ditch Access and Use Act To update the map of, and modify the maximum acreage available for inclusion in, the Florissant Fossil Beds National Monument Endangered Fish Recovery Programs Extension Act Amache Study Act Other bills in package Gardner was an original cosponsor of: Arapaho National Forest Boundary Adjustment Act of 2017 Fowler and Boskoff Peaks Designation Act Pike National Historic Trail Study Act Wildfire Management Technology Advancement Act of 2017 ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
02.12.2019	02.12.19 Gardner Meets with Chinese Leaders Delivers Tough Message Regarding China’s Actions to Undermine the U.S-led Liberal International Order Washington, D.C. – Today, Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity, released the below statement following his meeting with a delegation led by the former Ambassador of the People’s Republic of China (PRC) to the United States, Wenzhong Zhou: “Today I met with a delegation of high-level diplomats from the People’s Republic of China (PRC), led by the former Ambassador to the United States, Wenzhong Zhou,” said Senator Gardner. “We discussed actions mandated by my Asia Reassurance Initiative Act (ARIA), including those concerning Taiwan. I reiterated that Beijing’s hostile actions toward Taipei are counterproductive and the United States Congress will continue to advocate on behalf of Taiwan and the Taiwanese people, as guided by United States law, including the Taiwan Relations Act, the Taiwan Travel Act, and ARIA. I also explained that my call for Taiwan’s President Tsai Ing-wen, to be invited to address a joint session of Congress as a democratic leader is consistent with U.S law and it is my hope that Speaker Pelosi issues such an invitation in the near future. “I also shared my views with the delegation regarding the dangers of China’s illegal militarization of the South China Sea, along with the worsening of human rights and discriminatory trade behaviors by Beijing, and expressed the hope that the United States and the PRC can peacefully resolve these issues. I made it clear to Ambassador Zhou that I will continue to be a voice for America’s priorities in the region, and I welcome future conversations between our two countries.” In December 2018, Gardner met with the current Ambassador of the PRC to the United States, Cui Tiankai. He also chaired a series of hearings in his subcommittee focused on China, titled “The China Challenge”, which discussed economic, security, and human rights concerns. Gardner traveled to China in August of 2015 and met with a range of PRC officials, including Foreign Minister Wang Yi. In September 2015, Gardner met with President Xi Jinping in the Senate, during President Xi’s visit to the United States. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
02.07.2019	02.07.19 Gardner, Rubio, Cotton, Cornyn, and Cruz Send Letter Requesting Speaker Pelosi Invite the President of Taiwan to Address a Joint Session of Congress Washington, D.C. – U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO), Marco Rubio (R-FL), Tom Cotton (R-AR), John Cornyn (R-TX), and Ted Cruz (R-TX) sent a letter today to the U.S. House of Representatives Speaker Nancy Pelosi urging her to invite Tsai Ing-Wen, the President of Taiwan, to address a joint session of Congress. “This invitation would be consistent with U.S. law, enhance U.S. leadership in the Indo-Pacific region, and justly reward a true friend and ally of the United States and the American people,” the Senators wrote. “. . . President Tsai is a genuine democratic leader engaged in a struggle against an authoritarian and oppressive system that seeks to deny the Taiwanese people democratic rights and fundamental freedoms. Extending an invitation for President Tsai to address a joint session of Congress in this historic year for U.S.-Taiwan relations would send a powerful message that the United States and the American people will always stand with the oppressed, and never the oppressor.” NOTE: View letter here The letter reads in full Madam Speaker: We write to respectfully urge you to invite Tsai Ing-Wen, the President of Taiwan, to address a joint session of Congress in the near future. This invitation would be consistent with U.S. law, enhance U.S. leadership in the Indo-Pacific region, and justly reward a true friend and ally of the United States and the American people. As you know, April 10th will mark the 40th anniversary of the Taiwan Relations Act (TRA). The TRA forms the basis of the U.S. unofficial relationship with Taiwan. In particular, the TRA requires “to make clear that the United States decision to establish diplomatic relations with the People’s Republic of China rests upon the expectation that the future of Taiwan will be determined by peaceful means.” The People’s Republic of China (PRC) has continued to escalate its rhetoric and actions that threaten Taiwan’s democracy and sovereignty. Since the May 2016 inauguration of President Tsai, five nations have withdrawn diplomatic recognition from Taiwan, due to pressure from Beijing. In his New Year’s message earlier this month, PRC President Xi Jinping would not rule out the use of force to “re-unify” mainland China and Taiwan. Since the TRA went into effect, Congress has expressed near-unanimous bipartisan support for Taiwan, including encouraging high-level leader visits between Taiwan and the United States. Most recently, the Taiwan Travel Act (P.L. 115-135), signed into law on March 16, 2018, explicitly allows “high-level officials of Taiwan to enter the United States, under conditions which demonstrate appropriate respect for the dignity of such officials, and to meet with officials of the United States.” The Asia Reassurance Initiative Act of 2018 (P.L. 115-409), signed into law on December 31, 2018, re-affirms the provisions of the Taiwan Travel Act. While we understand that the honor of addressing a joint address to Congress is generally reserved for recognized heads of state, there is also clear precedent for inviting prominent democratic leaders. On November 15, 1989, Lech Walesa addressed a joint session of Congress as chairman of the Solidarity movement. On June 26, 1990, Nelson Mandela addressed a joint session of Congress as deputy president of the African National Congress. President Tsai is a genuine democratic leader engaged in a struggle against an authoritarian and oppressive system that seeks to deny the Taiwanese people democratic rights and fundamental freedoms. Extending an invitation for President Tsai to address a joint session of Congress in this historic year for U.S.-Taiwan relations would send a powerful message that the United States and the American people will always stand with the oppressed, and never the oppressor. We urge you to favorably consider this request. ###
02.06.2019	02.06.19 Gardner Meets with Attorney General Nominee William Barr Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today met with President Trump’s attorney general nominee William Barr ahead of his confirmation vote. Gardner released the following statement after their discussion regarding the federal response to the Gold King Mine spill, marijuana policy and the STATES Act, and the Department of Justice’s role in protecting American intellectual property around the world, among other topics: “It’s been more than three years since the Gold King Mine spill contaminated the Animas River and leaked heavy metals downstream, causing irreparable damages to our communities. Since then, I’ve worked closely with my colleagues in a bipartisan manner to facilitate the federal response required to address a problem of this magnitude. Unfortunately, Coloradans have been stuck in a holding pattern for years waiting for the Environmental Protection Agency and the Department of Justice (DOJ) to adjudicate their claims. During today’s meeting, Mr. Barr assured me that under his leadership the DOJ will expeditiously review claims to provide compensation to those deemed damaged as a result of the spill. We have a duty to continue fighting for those affected by this disaster. “We also discussed the disconnect between federal and state marijuana laws, which Mr. Barr eloquently described during his confirmation hearing. In particular, we discussed how my STATES Act would provide a state-based solution to the conflict between federal law and those 47 states that allow some form of cannabis. The bipartisan, commonsense bill ensures the federal government will respect the will of the voters – whether that is legalization or prohibition – and not interfere in any states’ legal marijuana industry. Mr. Barr agreed that the current situation is untenable and that the DOJ should not use resources to go after legal marijuana operations. “In addition, we talked about the DOJ’s role in defending American intellectual property rights. We discussed how my Asia Reassurance Initiative Act (ARIA), which will establish a long-term U.S. strategy for Asia, includes important protections for holders of American intellectual property rights, and calls on the President to take ‘all appropriate action to deny and punish cyber-enabled theft of intellectual property.’ Mr. Barr agreed that there is much work to do to ensure that American intellectual property is protected around the globe, especially in China. ARIA will put more tools at the disposal of the executive branch to take strong actions against these crimes. “I intend to support his nomination and I look forward to working together on issues important to Coloradans and other efforts to keep Americans safe.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
02.06.2019	02.06.19 Gardner, Bennet Introduce Bill to Boost Craft Beverage Industry Washington, D.C. – Colorado U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R) and Michael Bennet (D)—members of the Senate Bipartisan Small Brewers Caucus—today introduced legislation to help ensure the continued growth of America’s craft beverage industry. The Craft Beverage Modernization and Tax Reform Act would permanently establish reduced taxes and modernized regulations for brewers, cider makers, vintners, and distillers to further promote job creation in each industry. “Colorado is home to more than 350 small and independent brewers that employ more than 20,000 people,” said Senator Gardner. “The industry contributes significantly to our state’s economy, and it’s important that Washington doesn’t stand in the way of its continued success. The Craft Beverage Modernization and Tax Reform Act makes permanent the craft beverage changes in the 2017 tax reform and includes other provisions that have not yet been made law. Passing this bill will help small brewers and distillers to grow, create jobs, and boost communities across the four corners of Colorado and throughout our country.” “This is commonsense legislation that will relieve Colorado’s craft breweries, wineries, and distilleries from outdated regulations that stunt growth and innovation,” said Bennet, a member of the Senate Committee on Finance. “Fostering economic opportunity for beverage producers in Colorado not only strengthens our small businesses, but also has far reaching effects for their employees and the communities they serve.” In 2016, the brewing industry alone contributed more than $350 billion to the U.S. economy, directly and indirectly employing about 2.23 million Americans. The wine industry contributed $220 billion and 1.7 million jobs, and spirits contributed more than $173 billion and 1.5 million jobs. The Craft Beverage Modernization and Tax Reform Act would provide funding for Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau (TTB) programs that accelerate processing of formula and label applications and enforce fair trade practices. It would simplify the lengthy process for approving non-traditional beer formulas, promote innovation in brewing, and allow for the transfer of beer and bottled spirits in bond—increasing collaboration among brewers and reducing tax burdens for distillers. If passed, small brewers and distillers would receive reduced excise taxes, and small wine producers would receive an expanded excise tax credit. Provisions similar to many of those in the bill passed in 2017 and 2018 and are set to expire at the end of 2019. A one-page summary of the legislative proposal can be found here. A longer, section-by-section summary can be found here. Legislative text can be found here. ###
02.06.2019	02.06.19 Gardner Announces Disaster Relief Funding Washington, D.C. – U.S. Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today that the U.S. Department of Transportation has awarded Colorado the following amounts for disaster recovery: $21,540,623 for 2013 flood recovery $1,250,000 for US 550 rockfall In 2016, Gardner along with other members of the Colorado delegation, sent a letter to the Senate and House Appropriations Committee urging adequate funding for the Federal Highway Administration’s (FHWA) Emergency Relief account. This resulted in more than $100 million being awarded to Colorado for disaster recovery. The funds awarded today are additional dollars that are related to the 2013 floods and a 2018 rockslide. “The disastrous floods in 2013 and rockslide on US 550 last summer both caused significant damage to our infrastructure that we are still dealing with today,” said Senator Gardner. “I’ve consistently advocated for and delivered funding to Colorado to help deal with the aftermath of natural disasters, and I’m pleased this much-needed funding has been made available to help our communities recover.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
02.06.2019	02.06.19 Gardner, Cortez Masto, Crapo, and Bipartisan Group of Senators Send Letter Requesting Administration Stabilize Medicare Advantage Program Washington, D.C. – U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO), Catherine Cortez Masto (D-NV), and Mike Crapo (R-ID) sent a letter today with a bipartisan group of colleagues urging the Administration to stabilize the Medicare Advantage program that provides quality health care to 21 million seniors and individuals with disabilities. The senators wrote to Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) Administrator Seema Verma requesting she consider how to strengthen the program, innovate with technology, and ensure predictability for enrollees. “Millions of our constituents depend on Medicare Advantage for quality, patient-centered health care,” the Senators wrote. “Beneficiary enthusiasm for the program remains strong, with more than one in three seniors enrolled. . . For plan year 2020, we encourage the Administration to implement policies that promote innovation, provide predictable funding to support long-term, value-based arrangements, and ensure that any substantive changes include sufficient time for thorough evaluation and stakeholder engagement.” NOTE: View letter here. The letter reads in full Dear Administrator Verma: We write to express our strong support for Medicare Advantage and the high-quality care it provides to more than 21 million seniors and individuals with disabilities. We appreciate the Administration’s recognition of the value of Medicare Advantage and its work to encourage innovation for these private health plans. As annual updates are considered for 2020, we ask you to continue to strengthen and grow this proven part of the Medicare program by proposing policies that provide stability and predictability. Millions of our constituents depend on Medicare Advantage for quality, patient-centered health care. Beneficiary enthusiasm for the program remains strong, with more than one in three seniors enrolled. This is due, in part, to private plans’ ability to leverage best practices in care delivery, use robust data analytics, and implement proven value-based care and care management models. Medicare Advantage enrollees report a 91 percent satisfaction rate, with 74 percent of enrollees in plans rated four Stars and above. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services recently announced average Medicare Advantage premiums are estimated to decrease by six percent in 2019. Meanwhile, beneficiary enrollment has increased by eight percent in the past year and 79 percent since 2010, a testament to the affordability, high-quality care coordination, disease management and community-based programs, and supplemental benefits such as vision and dental coverage provided by Medicare Advantage plans. Further, bipartisan efforts are helping to reduce beneficiary costs by increasing the use of telemedicine, promoting value-based insurance design, and expanding benefits that address social determinants of health by including transportation, nutrition, and other non-medical needs that enhance quality of life. For plan year 2020, we encourage the Administration to implement policies that promote innovation, provide predictable funding to support long-term, value-based arrangements, and ensure that any substantive changes include sufficient time for thorough evaluation and stakeholder engagement. In addition, Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA), John Cornyn (R-TX), Kyrsten Sinema (D-AZ), James Inhofe (R-OK), Roy Blunt (R-MO), Doug Jones (D-AL), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), James Risch (R-ID), Pat Roberts (R-KS), Jeffrey Merkley (D-OR), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), John Boozman (R-AR), Thom Tillis (R-NC), Angus King (I-ME), Brian Schatz (D-HI), John Barrasso (R-WY), Jon Tester (D-MT), John Hoeven (R-ND), Mark Warner (D-VA), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Todd Young (R-IN), Marsha Blackburn (R-TN), Michael Bennet (D-CO), Bob Casey (D-PA), Rob Portman (R-OH), Gary Peters (D-MI), Tina Smith (D-MN), Cindy Hyde-Smith (R-MS), Lamar Alexander (R-TN), Joe Manchin (D-WV), John Kennedy (R-LA), Susan Collins (R-ME), Mazie Hirono (D-HI), Rand Paul (R-KY), Roger Wicker (R-MS), Thomas Carper (D-DE), Deb Fischer (R-NE), Marco Rubio (R-FL), Ben Sasse (R-NE), Bill Cassidy (R-LA), Christopher Murphy (D-CT), Tom Cotton (R-AR), David Perdue (R-GA), John Thune (R-SD), Shelley Capito (R-WV), Steve Daines (R-MT), Ron Johnson (R-WI), Lindsey Graham (R-SC), Tim Scott (R-SC), Michael Rounds (R-SD), Dan Sullivan (R-AK), Joni Ernst (R-IA), James Lankford (R-OK), Mitt Romney (R-UT), Richard Burr (R-NC), Michael Enzi (R-WY), Tom Udall (D-NM), Martin Heinrich (D-NM), Martha McSally (R-AZ), Josh Hawley (R-MO), Mike Braun (R-IN), Jacky Rosen (D-NV), and Kevin Cramer (R-ND) also signed onto the letter. ###
02.06.2019	02.06.19 Gardner Announces Colorado is Second State to Have Entire Delegation as Cosponsors of the Disability Integration Act Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today that Colorado has become the second state to have their entire Congressional delegation cosponsor the Disability Integration Act only 21 days since introduction of the bill on January 15, 2019. The Disability Integration Act is a bill that affirms the right of people with disabilities and seniors to live in freedom, rather than be forced into unwanted institutionalization. It would require states and insurance providers who pay for institutional placement to also offer long term services and supports in the community. “Individuals with disabilities should have the right to live in the setting that best fits their needs and allows them to live as independently as possible in their community,” said Senator Gardner. “After hearing first-hand from the ADAPT community in Colorado, I was proud to be the first Senate Republican to champion this critical legislation that will help ensure individuals living with disabilities are provided the flexibility to live how they choose.” “We know that it will take members of Congress from both side of the aisle to make DIA the law of the land,” said Dawn Russell, an organizer with Atlantis ADAPT in Denver, Colorado. “We want to thank every member of Colorado’s delegation for supporting the rights of disabled people to live in freedom, especially Senator Gardner who was the first Republican on the Senate bill.” DIA has widespread support from over 730 organizations from across the nation. At the DIA introduction event, AARP announced their support for the bill, illustrating support from the aging community and the importance of seniors being able to age in their own homes instead of being forced into nursing facilities as they grow older. Colorado joins Vermont on the growing list of states that have their entire delegation as cosponsors of DIA. “We were thrilled that all of our members of Congress from Vermont were original cosponsors of the Disability Integration Act this session, and we are excited to see more states join us!” said Sarah Launderville, the Executive Director of the Vermont Center for Independent Living. “I think this really demonstrates the importance of ensuring that disabled and elderly Americans can live in the community.” ADAPT and the broader Disability Community have called upon the House of Representatives to pass DIA before July 26th of this year, which will also mark the 29th anniversary of the signing of the Americans with Disabilities Act. ###
02.06.2019	02.06.19 Gardner Announces $1.4 Million University Transportation Center Grant for Colorado School of Mines Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), a member of the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, today announced the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) is awarding the Colorado School of Mines in Golden, Colorado a $1.4 million University Transportation Center (UTC) program grant. The UTC program was reauthorized under the Fixing America’s Surface Transportation (FAST) Act. The Colorado School of Mines, along with its partners California State University, Los Angeles and Lehigh University, operates the Tier 1 University Transportation Center for Underground Transportation Infrastructure. “I’m excited the Department of Transportation has awarded the Colorado School of Mines this University Transportation Center grant,” said Senator Gardner. “This grant will help the Colorado School of Mines and its partners continue their innovative work and research regarding underground construction projects. Going forward, I will continue my efforts at the federal level to ensure Colorado has the necessary resources to address our infrastructure challenges.” Senator Gardner has worked with his colleagues to help secure more than $300 million in infrastructure grants for the state of Colorado and will continue to support efforts to improve and rebuild the state’s infrastructure. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
02.05.2019	02.05.19 Gardner Statement on President Trump’s State of the Union Address Washington, D.C. - Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the below statement following President Trump’s State of the Union Address: NOTE: View Gardner’s remarks here or by clicking on the photo above “I applaud the President’s call for compromise and cooperation tonight. It is time to leave partisan corners and work together on behalf of the American people to move our country forward. I stand ready to work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to fix our broken immigration system, fund border security, invest in our nation’s crumbling infrastructure to reduce traffic in Colorado, and bolster our national security. “I was pleased the President also highlighted the recent economic growth our economy has experienced following passage of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, but there is more we can do. While communities along the Front Range have experienced economic growth over the past few years, many rural communities still feel left behind. We need to further our commitment to economic development across all four corners of our great state. “I’m confident the future of our nation is bright, and I am hopeful we can find common ground to advance the interests of all Americans.” ###
02.05.2019	02.05.19 Senate Passes Gardner, Rubio, Risch, McConnell Bill to Strengthen US Security in Middle East, Bolster Israel Alliance & Sanction Syria’s Dictatorship Washington, D.C. – U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO), Marco Rubio (R-FL), Foreign Relations Chairman James Risch (R-ID), and Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) welcomed the U.S. Senate’s passage of the Strengthening America’s Security in the Middle East Act of 2019 (S. 1) in an overwhelming bipartisan vote of 77 to 23. This legislation would make improvements to defense and security assistance provisions in the Middle East, bolster the U.S.-Israel strategic alliance by authorizing security assistance to Israel over a 10-year period pursuant to the 2016 Memorandum of Understanding, reauthorize the United States-Jordan Defense Cooperation Act of 2015, provide new authorities for sanctions against Syria’s Assad regime and its supporters, and empower state and local governments in the United States to counter the anti-Israel boycott, divestment and sanctions (BDS) movement’s discriminatory economic warfare against the Jewish state. “This legislation would enhance our alliances in the Middle East, condemn the heinous human rights abuses of the Assad regime, and take a strong stance against the anti-Israel and anti-Semitic BDS movement,” said Senator Gardner. “We have no stronger ally in the Middle East than the state of Israel, and I am pleased the Senate today passed this important bill that will help stop the spread of radical Islamic extremism and fight terrorism. I urge the House of Representatives to quickly take up and pass this bipartisan bill and look forward to President Trump signing it into law.” “Despite the growing influence of pro-BDS voices on the Left, a bipartisan supermajority in the Senate voted overwhelmingly to pass the pro-Israel Combating BDS Act and other bipartisan measures included in the Strengthening America’ Security in the Middle East Act,” Rubio said. “This bill’s security cooperation provisions will boost America’s important alliances with Israel and Jordan amid the Middle East’s growing dangers from the Iranian regime and the many terrorists groups who operate in the region. This bill will also hold the Syria’s Assad regime and its supporters accountable for their egregious human rights and crimes against humanity. I urge Speaker Pelosi to quickly take up and pass this important bill in the House of Representatives so that the President can sign it into law.” “I am glad to see passage of this incredibly important legislation concerning our diplomatic activities in the Middle East,” Chairman Risch said. “It offers much-needed support and aid to our allies in the Middle East, Israel and Jordan, and provides protections to U.S. state and local governments that choose to oppose anti-Israel boycotts. Notably, it extends strong sanctions and crippling economic tools that target the Assad regime and its allies in Syria who are responsible for the tragic loss of half a million lives and ongoing atrocities in that country. This bill is an example of bipartisanship, and I thank my colleagues on both sides of the aisle for their support.” In December of 2018, Gardner and several of his colleagues sent a letter to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) and Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-NY) urging them to take action against the anti-Israel and anti-Semitic Boycott, Divestment, and Sanctions (BDS) movement. ###
02.04.2019	02.04.19 Gardner Statement on David Bernhardt’s Nomination to Secretary of Interior Washington, D.C. - Today, Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the below statement following President Trump’s nomination of David Bernhardt to be the next Secretary of Interior: “This is fantastic news for Colorado,” said Senator Gardner. “I’ve known David Bernhardt for many years and have worked closely with him over the last two years to advance Colorado priorities. As a native Coloradan from the Western Slope, David knows how important public lands are to our state and has a keen understanding of the issues Coloradans face every day. From moving the Bureau of Land Management to the West to promoting conservation programs like the Land and Water Conservation Fund, Coloradans will be lucky to have David lead our Interior Department. I look forward to supporting him throughout the confirmation process.” Bernhardt’s nomination in 2017 to be the Deputy Secretary of Interior was supported by several stakeholder groups in Colorado and across the country, including the Colorado River District, Colorado Water Congress, Southern Ute Indian Tribe, Outdoor Recreation Industry Roundtable, and the Theodore Roosevelt Conservation Partnership. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
02.04.2019	02.04.19 The Science Coalition Names Gardner a ‘Champion of Science’ Gardner Recognized for Supporting Fundamental Scientific Research Investment, Nominated for This Award by the University of Colorado Boulder Washington, D.C. – U.S. Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today announced that he has received the Champion of Science Award. The award – presented by The Science Coalition (TSC) – honors members of Congress whose actions and votes consistently reflect their commitment to fundamental science through funding investment for federal research agencies. “It’s an honor to be recognized by The Science Coalition for my work to bolster science and research funding and support for our public research universities,” said Senator Gardner. “Over the past four years in the Senate, my goal has been to make science bipartisan again, and I’m proud we were able to accomplish this when we passed the landmark American Innovation and Competitiveness Act. Colorado is home to several world class research institutions, including the National Renewable Energy Lab and JILA, a joint venture between the University of Colorado and the National Institute of Standards and Technology. I look forward to continuing to work with Colorado researchers and scientists to advance their important work.” “Thanks to the support of Senator Gardner, the investments being made in the American research enterprise will keep the United States at the forefront of scientific discovery for years to come,” said Heather Bené, President of The Science Coalition. “These investments are being put to good use by university researchers all over the country. We appreciate that congressional Champions like Senator Gardner understand that scientific advancement requires a commitment – year in and year out – to prioritizing federal research investment.” Gardner was nominated for this award by the University of Colorado Boulder, a member of TSC. The Coalition is comprised of more than 50 of the nation’s leading public and private research institutions dedicated to highlighting the partnerships between the federal government and America’s research universities. Awardees were selected both for their support of these institutions and their tireless efforts to ensure fundamental scientific advancement across all disciplines. This year marks the 20th anniversary of the Champion of Science Award. Since 1999, more than 90 members of Congress have been recognized for their efforts to secure federal funding for fundamental scientific research – through their voting records, bill sponsorships, letters of support, or other activities aimed at boosting scientific discovery. Gardner’s record on science: Gardner has long been recognized a leader in his party on science and federal research policy. In December, Gardner was awarded the Presidential Citation, by the American Geophysical Union(AGU), for his work on science policy. He has fought for legislation reducing emissions through clean energy policies and technologies. Gardner received the Consortium of Social Science Associations’ Distinguished Service Award. He has been a leader on legislation to continue energy savings performance contracts that have resulted in less energy consumption and over $12 billion in savings over the past two decades for the federal government. He provided the keynote address at the annual ARPA-E convention, where he emphasized the importance of bipartisanship and common ground in science policy. He was an honorary speaker at the National Science Foundation’s annual dinner last year where Director Córdova recognized his and Sen. Peters’ work on the American Innovation and Competitiveness Act. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
01.31.2019	01.31.19 Gardner Congratulates United Launch Alliance on Securing Launch Services Contract for Lucy Mission Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), a member of the Commerce, Science and Transportation Subcommittee on Aviation and Space, today announced that the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) has selected United Launch Alliance (ULA) located in Centennial, Colorado, to provide launch services for its Lucy Mission. “Today’s announcement that NASA has selected ULA to provide launch services for their Lucy Mission is exciting news for our state, and is a testament to ULA’s highly-skilled workforce and launch success rate,” said Senator Gardner. “Our state’s role in science and space is recognized globally, and I’ll continue working in Washington to ensure that the United States maintains our competitive advantage in aerospace innovation, technology, and ingenuity.” “NASA has once again placed its confidence in ULA to launch a critical science payload for our nation. We look forward to continued exploration of our universe with the Lucy mission. I am so proud of the men and women who make ULA the world’s premier launch company and are dedicated to reliably launching the most important missions for our nation. We appreciate Senator Gardner’s leadership on aerospace issues in Washington and look forward to continuing our work together in the future,” said United Launch Alliance President and Chief Executive Officer Tory Bruno. Senator Gardner is a strong advocate for Colorado’s aerospace industry. He has fought to bring new space jobs to Colorado, and serves on a key committee with oversight of U.S. space and aerospace policies. NASA’s Lucy Mission, currently slated for launch in October 2021, will be launched on an Atlas V rocket and conduct a 12-year expedition to study primitive asteroids that orbit the Sun in tandem with Jupiter, also known as “Jupiter’s Trojans”. The Lucy mission includes serval partners, including the Southwest Research Institute (SwRI), located in Boulder, Colorado, as well as Lockheed Martin, located in Denver, Colorado, among others. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
01.31.2019	01.31.19 Gardner, Tester, Hyde-Smith, Introduce Bipartisan Legislation that Brings Doctors to Rural Areas Washington, D.C. - U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO), Jon Tester (D-MT), and Cindy Hyde-Smith (R-MS) today introduced the Rural Physician Workforce Production Act. This bipartisan legislation aims to address the growing shortage of physicians in rural communities all across the country. The Rural Physician Workforce Production Act alters the Graduate Medical Education (GME) program to provide medical students with the opportunity to practice in a rural area, with the goal of recruiting the next generation of rural doctors. “In Colorado and across the nation, rural areas are feeling the pain of driving significant distances as a result of the growing shortage of physicians in these underserved communities,” said Gardner. “The greatest indicator of where a doctor will practice is the location of their residency and this common sense legislation helps level the playing field for Graduate Medical Education to ensure doctors are being recruited and retained in rural areas too." “The shortage of doctors in rural America threatens the future of frontier communities in Montana,” Tester said. “If we want more doctors to practice in rural areas, we need to train them in rural areas—and this bill will help build a stronger pipeline of medical residents from universities to our rural hospitals.” “The hardships faced by hospitals in rural communities continue to grow in Mississippi and other rural states. This measure is a sensible reform that can help rural hospitals attract physicians,” Hyde-Smith said. “I will work with Senator Gardner and my colleagues in the Senate to advance this legislation, which has the potential to have long-term benefits for rural America.” This legislation will help increase access by allowing residents in all medical specialties to gain practice in rural areas. Many urban and rural hospitals have partnered to effectively promote rural training by establishing rural training track programs. However, current law restricts the ability of hospitals to expand these programs. The Rural Physician Workforce Production Act addresses this issue by eliminating caps on urban and rural hospitals that have prevented them from expanding or creating new rural training track programs. What’s the challenge?The GME program was established as a way for the federal government to support medical residency training to ensure physician supply and access to care. However, the program has fallen short of keeping this promise and has not provided a sufficient physician supply to rural areas. According to the Health Resources and Service Administration (HRSA), a mere 57 percent of the country lives in a geographic region that is having its primary care needs met. How will the Rural Physician Workforce Production Act work to fix it?One of the greatest indicators of where a doctor will practice is the location of their residency. However, current caps and other limitations on rural residency programs have put rural America at a significant disadvantage compared to their urban counterparts when it comes to accepting residents in order to recruit and retain the next generation of doctors. The Rural Physician Workforce Production Act would address this issue by establishing a national per resident payment amount in order to make accepting residents a financially viable option for rural hospitals. ###
01.30.2019	01.30.19 Gardner, Hirono Introduce Bipartisan Legislation to Award Fred Korematsu the Congressional Gold Medal Washington, D.C. – U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Mazie K. Hirono (D-HI) joined by colleagues in both chambers, introduced bipartisan legislation to award Fred Korematsu the Congressional Gold Medal in recognition of his fight against the illegal incarceration of Japanese Americans during World War II and his work to advance civil rights. “Japanese internment is a stain on our nation’s history, and the Korematsu v. United States decision was a setback for racial equality and a rejection of our Constitutional values. Fred Korematsu fought against this discrimination despite the consequences and his legacy of courage serves as an example for all Americans,”said Senator Gardner. “I’m proud to join in introducing legislation to posthumously award Korematsu the Congressional Gold Medal, Congress’ highest civilian award. His fight to promote equal protection under the law for every American underscores fundamental values of our nation: freedom, equality, security, and justice.” “Fred Korematsu stood up for the rights of more than 120,000 Japanese Americans during World War II, and continued his fight for decades to expand civil rights and overturn his own false criminal conviction,” Senator Hirono said. “Awarding the Congressional Gold Medal, Congress’ highest civilian honor, to Fred Korematsu is a fitting tribute to his lifelong pursuit of justice and equality.” “My father, Fred T. Korematsu, was born in Oakland, California 100 years ago today. A civil rights pioneer, he dedicated his life to ‘stand up for what is right,’ and he worked to ensure what happened to him and other Japanese Americans will never happen again to any other minority group,” said Karen Korematsu, founder and executive director of the Fred T. Korematsu Institute and daughter of Fred Korematsu. “I thank Senators Hirono, Murkowski, Coons, and Gardner, and Congressman Takano for their introduction of the Fred Korematsu Congressional Gold Medal Act. Through this bill, it is a reminder that we must Stop Repeating History and, like my father, continue to champion civil liberties and the Constitution for all.” “NAPABA is proud to honor the legacy of Fred Korematsu on his 100th birthday and encourages Congress to recognize him with a Congressional Gold Medal,” National Asian Pacific American Bar Association (NAPABA) President Daniel Sakaguchi said. “This bill is a reminder of his important place in history and that we continue to learn from his legacy, a commitment to civil rights and justice for all. We thank Senator Mazie Hirono, Senator Lisa Murkowski, Senator Chris Coons, Senator Cory Gardner, and Representative Mark Takano for leading this bipartisan effort.” In 1942, at the age of 23, Fred Korematsu was arrested for refusing to enter the internment camps for Japanese Americans. After his arrest, he appealed his case all the way to the Supreme Court, which upheld Executive Order 9066 based on military necessity. After 40 years, on November 10, 1983, Korematsu’s criminal conviction was overturned in a federal court in San Francisco. Korematsu remained a civil rights advocate throughout his life and received the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the nation’s highest civilian honor, from President Bill Clinton in 1998. He passed away on March 30, 2005 at the age of 86. Throughout his career, Senator Gardner has passionately spoken out against the Japanese internment camps of WWII, including Camp Amache located in Southeastern Colorado. In 2016, the Senator spoke on the Senate floor to read a speech written in the 1940s by Marion Konishi, the valedictorian of an Amache high school class during the war. In 2017, the Senator visited the camp site and participated in the Annual Amache Pilgrimage, and in 2018 he introduced legislation to begin the process of making it a national park. ###
01.29.2019	01.29.19 Gardner Joins Colleagues in Reintroducing Legislation to Permanently Repeal the Death Tax Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) joined Senators John Thune (R-SD), Mitch McConnell (R-KY), Chuck Grassley (R-IA), and dozens of their colleagues in reintroducing legislation to permanently repeal the federal estate tax, more commonly known as the death tax. The Death Tax Repeal Act of 2019, would finally end this purely punitive tax that has the potential to hit family-run farms, ranches, and businesses as the result of the owner’s death. “As someone who grew up working at my family’s farm implement dealership, I have seen firsthand how communities are negatively impacted by the death tax,” said Senator Gardner. “Coloradans in every industry, from agriculture to small businesses, hope that one day they will be able to pass down all they’ve worked for to their kin. Unfortunately with the death tax, the federal government is the one that gains, not the next generation. It is time to put an end to the death tax once and for all.” “Although we made great progress during the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act negotiations, the death tax still remains an onerous and unfair tax that punishes hard-working families,” said Thune. “Oftentimes, family-owned farms and ranches bear the brunt of this tax, which threatens families’ agricultural legacies and makes it difficult and costly to pass these businesses down to future generations. This way of life is integral to so many South Dakota families, which is why I remain committed to removing roadblocks for these family businesses, and we can start by repealing the death tax once and for all.” “With Senator Thune’s leadership, I am proud to cosponsor this legislation to finally end the unfair death tax,” said Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell. “It’s the government’s final insult to force grieving families to visit both the undertaker and the IRS on the same day. Our historic tax reform legislation provided major relief from this burden to many Kentuckians – especially those in farming and rural communities. Now is the time for our Democratic colleagues to join us to take the next step to repeal the death tax once and for all.” “Congress ought to do everything possible to encourage family enterprises to get next generations involved and keep the doors open for business,” said Finance Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley. “It’s getting harder all the time to keep a farm or small business in the family from one generation to the next. The estate tax doesn’t serve any purpose except forcing family farms and family-run businesses to waste precious capital on costly tax planning and in too many cases, paying taxes on income or property that have already been taxed once. Rather than sending even more taxes to Washington, D.C, it would be far better to allow family farms to keep this money so they can invest in the rural communities they are located in to create new opportunities.” This legislation is supported by the American Farm Bureau Federation, the National Cattlemen’s Beef Association, NFIB, the Associated General Contractors of America, the Family Business Estate Tax Coalition, Policy and Taxation Group, and many others. Additional cosponsors include by U.S. Senators Lamar Alexander (R-TN), John Barrasso (R-WY), Marsha Blackburn (R-TN), Roy Blunt (R-MO), John Boozman (R-AR), John Cornyn (R-TX), Tom Cotton (R-AR), Kevin Cramer (R-ND), Mike Crapo (R-ID), Ted Cruz (R-TX), Steve Daines (R-MT), Joni Ernst (R-IA), Deb Fischer (R-NE), John Hoeven (R-ND), Cindy Hyde-Smith (R-MS), James Inhofe (R-OK), Johnny Isakson (R-GA), John Kennedy (R-LA), Jerry Moran (R-KS), David Perdue (R-GA), Jim Risch (R-ID), Pat Roberts (R-KS), Mike Rounds (R-SD), Marco Rubio (R-FL), and Todd Young (R-IN). ###
01.29.2019	01.29.19 Gardner Announces Navy Relocation of PMOSSP to Littleton Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today the U.S. Department of the Navy is relocating the Program Management Office Strategic Systems Program (PMOSSP) Flight Systems from Sunnyvale, California to Littleton, Colorado on October 1, 2019. PMOSSP Flight Systems provides the technical oversight and fleet support for the nation’s sea-based strategic deterrent. “The announcement that the U.S. Navy is relocating PMOSSP from California to Colorado is welcome news for our state and will create job opportunities for Coloradans,” said Senator Gardner. “In Colorado, we’re proud of those who serve our nation and are pleased to accept the responsibility of such a crucial program in support of our nation’s nuclear capabilities.” Senator Gardner believes we must continue to support the brave men and women who serve our nation and ensure they are equipped with the resources needed to meet the challenges of today and tomorrow. Colorado is home to six military bases: Fort Carson Army Base, Buckley, Peterson, Cheyenne Mountain, Schriever, and the Air Force Academy Air Force Bases. Colorado is also welcoming new units, including the Stryker Brigade Combat Team at Fort Carson and the Joint Forces Space Component staff at Schriever Air Force Base. Gardner understands the essential role Colorado plays in supporting national security and will continue to advocate on behalf of our service members across the state. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
01.28.2019	01.28.19 Gardner, Bipartisan Group of Colleagues Introduce Legislation to Expand and Support Teacher Leadership Opportunities Washington, DC - US Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO), Chris Coons (D-DE), Joni Ernst (R-IA), Chuck Grassley (R-IA), Chris Murphy (D-CT), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI), Doug Jones (D-AL), Pat Roberts (R-KS), Jim Inhofe (R-OK), and Jack Reed (D-RI) today introduced the Teachers Are Leaders Act, which would create partnerships between colleges and high-need schools to develop and support innovative teacher leader roles. Teachers are one of the most important factors in student achievement. Unfortunately, high teacher attrition rates, which have neared 8 percent in recent years, mean that quality teachers are leaving the classroom every year. Teacher attrition rates are highest in our lowest-performing schools, where students have the greatest need for high-quality teachers. The top reasons for teachers leaving the classroom often include a lack of administrative support, professional learning opportunities, and decision-making input. Teachers desire and deserve a variety of career advancement opportunities to lead in their school without having to leave the classroom. Recognizing this, innovative districts and states such as Delaware and Iowa have created “teacher leader” roles, wherein classroom teachers take on additional responsibilities to address unique school needs. To support these efforts, this bill would support locally-designed teacher leader development programs that would create teacher leader roles that directly address demonstrated school needs, which could range from peer coaching to developing new dual enrollment courses. The bill would ensure that the continuum of teacher preparation and development extends beyond the first few years of teaching and would offer a practical way for higher education to address teacher recruitment and retention challenges. “As a father of three children currently enrolled in the Colorado public school system, I understand the pivotal role teachers play in the development of our students,” said Senator Gardner. “When quality teachers leave the classroom because they don’t have the necessary resources, it is our children who suffer. Students everywhere deserve to have the best learning opportunities at their disposal and that starts with providing leadership opportunities and support for our teachers.” “Teachers invest so much of themselves in their students, so it’s critical that we invest in them to ensure they have all the resources they need to make sure every child can receive an excellent education. Teacher leadership is a promising investment that offers teachers new learning and leadership opportunities, which have been shown to improve teacher job satisfaction, and more importantly, to increase student achievement,” said Senator Coons. “Investing in Iowa’s educators is investing in our future leaders. Unfortunately, rural school districts are struggling to attract and retain teachers, often due to lack of administrative support and professional development opportunities. The Teachers Are Leaders Act will enable teachers to develop their skills and take on additional responsibilities, while providing a better-quality education for our students,” said Senator Ernst. “Boosting teachers’ ability to improve student learning will build a better future for our kids and our country. Iowa’s teacher leadership program has proven results with increases in both retaining excellent teachers and districts meeting their achievement goals. This legislation will help us spread that success nationwide,” Senator Grassley said. “Great teachers are great equalizers - they can help students overcome any barrier to learning. This bill helps local communities support the development of great teachers and keep them in the classroom,” said Senator Murphy. “Teachers play a critical role in student success,” Senator Inhofe said. “By supporting local teacher leadership programs, we can do more to support our teachers by creating and expanding professional development opportunities to improve teacher retention.” “The National Network of State Teachers of the Year salutes Sens. Coons, Ernst, Grassley, Gardner, Murphy, Whitehouse, Roberts, Inhofe, and Reed for their compelling policy initiative and understanding that teacher leadership is a critical thread in this country’s fabric that enables educators to advocate for the issues and practices that provide all students with exceptional and equitable learning opportunities,” said Katherine Bassett, President and CEO, National Network of State Teachers of the Year (NNSTOY). "Teach Plus is thrilled to endorse the Teachers Are Leaders Act. The tens of thousands teachers in the Teach Plus Teacher Leader Network understand that teacher leadership is a smart investment that yields gains in student success. We applaud the bill's attention to improving preparation, and its innovative approach to differentiated career paths that will foster new opportunities for professional growth,” said Alice Cain Johnson, Executive Vice President, Teach Plus. “We know teachers want opportunities to lead from the classroom, yet we’ve seen that teacher leadership roles typically come without quality training and support. This situation does a double disservice: it takes teaching time away from the educators best prepared to accelerate student learning and it fails to equip them with the skills they need to lead other teachers to similar success. The Teachers Are Leaders Act helps address this challenge by creating opportunities for teachers to access high-quality leadership training that arms them with the knowledge and skills they need to work together with their principal and colleagues to make hiring decisions, set curriculum, design in-school training, coach their peers, and establish other shared practices that lead to better outcomes for students,” said Jean Desravines, CEO, New Leaders. NOTE: Read the bill text here. NOTE: Read a one-pager on the bill here. The Teachers Are Leaders Act is supported by: NNSTOY, NBPTS, Teach Plus, Alliance for Excellence in Education, Council of Chief State School Officers (CCSSO), Delaware State Education Association (DSEA), Educators 4 Excellence, International Literacy Association (ILA), National Association of Elementary School Principals (NAESP), National Association of Secondary School Principals (NASSP), National Education Association (NEA), National Institute for Teaching Excellence (NIET), National Parent Teacher Association (PTA), New Leaders, Third Way, University of Delaware, and American Association of Colleges for Teacher Education (AACTE). ###
01.28.2019	01.28.19 Gardner Introduces Legislation to Drive Down Costs for Early Childhood Education, Apprenticeships, and Other Worker Skills Programs Washington, DC – Following last week’s celebration of National School Choice Week, Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) reintroduced the 529 Expansion and Modernization Act, legislation that expands the tax free educations savings account, called 529 savings plans, to be able to be used for early childhood expenses and alternative education opportunities like trade schools and apprenticeship programs. Currently, 529 savings plans are limited to educational costs for post-secondary education or private, public or religious k-12 educational expenses. “This bill simultaneously addresses two separate issues that I regularly hear about all across Colorado,” said Senator Gardner. “First, parents throughout the state are struggling to find affordable early childhood education for their young children. While we know that those early years are critical for educational development, we don’t do enough to help parents make the most of that important time. As a result, parents are often overwhelmed by the cost of early education programs or are pulled out of the workforce to care for their young children. This bill will help parents shoulder that burden by opening up these accounts for early childhood education programs and would enable employers to start making tax-advantaged contributions into their employees’ accounts.” "On behalf of not-for-profit 'Early Learning Ventures' foundation, I am very pleased that Senator Gardner is moving forward with his effort to provide working families with a new financial tool to help defray the high costs of quality early child care and education,” said David Merage, Merage Foundation. “This policy effort, while a first step and one I hope in the coming years we can build upon, will allow parents, grandparents, and all relatives help young families financially prepare for the high costs of quality early childhood education and care. Importantly as well, it will allow an employer to utilize this new tool and make a contribution on behalf of the child care needs of the employee." “Business leaders in virtually every community I visit talk about the shortage of skilled labor,” continued Senator Gardner. “Employers want to pay good salaries but can’t find the skilled laborers they need. This bill enables workers to obtain those skills by putting apprenticeship, CTE and similar programs on the same footing as college education for 529s. Whether used by a student seeking an alternative to a four-year degree or by a current worker looking to add to his or her skillset, opening 529s to a broader range of educational opportunities will help our workers adjust to our economy’s changing demands.” What are 529 savings plans?529 savings plans are tax free savings accounts used for educational expenses such as tuition for private, public and religious institutions starting in elementary school and continuing throughout high school. The 529 savings plan is applicable to all programs administered by the US Department of Education, this includes attendance at any college or university, as well as any other form of post-secondary education. How does this legislation change them? The 529 Expansion and Modernization Act will make childhood education, career and technical education, targeted training and registered apprenticeships as eligible for the savings plans. It will also open up tax-advantaged employer contributions so that employers can help shoulder the burden their employees face with early childhood and other educational opportunities. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
01.25.2019	01.25.19 Gardner Statement on Funding Resolution to Reopen the Government Washington, DC - Today, Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the below statement after a deal was announced to reopen the government and work to fund border security: “I’ve been clear that I do not believe government shutdowns are ever the right answer, and I applaud the President’s funding resolution to reopen the government and provide a platform for additional border security funding.” said Senator Gardner. “Today’s announcement to reopen the government and come together to negotiate border security is what I have been saying from the very beginning. Now that the government will reopen, it is time to leave partisan corners, work together to fund border security, and get back to work for the American people.” Senator Gardner has been working closely with a bipartisan group of Senators to find a solution to reopen the government. NOTE: View Senator Gardner’s video statement here.
01.25.2019	01.25.19 Gardner, Bennet Introduce Bipartisan Legislation Authorizing Support for Homeless Veterans and Their Families Washington, DC – Colorado US Senators Cory Gardner (R) and Michael Bennet (D) introduced the Creating A Reliable Environment (CARE) for Veterans’ Dependents Act. This bipartisan legislation allows the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to compensate VA Grant and Per Diem program funded facilities for care provided to dependents of homeless veterans. The VA Grant and Per Diem program does not currently reimburse facilities for care they provide to the dependents of homeless veterans. In 2017, roughly 2,500 children of homeless veterans were provided care through VA-funded facilities. The Comitis Crisis Center in Aurora, Colorado provides these services for dependents, but receives no reimbursements. “We have a duty to help veterans struggling with homelessness, and that includes ensuring their children are never left in the cold,” said Senator Gardner. “Our brave men and women who fought for our country deserve reforms to ensure their children have access to proper care, and I’m glad to join Senator Bennet in introducing this bipartisan legislation to fight for our veterans and their families.” “Veterans in need of housing support who have kids should have assurance that their families will be supported,” said Senator Bennet. “By reimbursing the facilities that so rightly provide support to these children, we can encourage more holistic care.” “Mile High Behavioral Healthcare and the Comitis Crisis Center would like to thank Senator Gardner, Senator Bennet, and Senator Murray for their support of the bipartisan CARE Act. Those who have fought for our homeland should never be without a safe place to call home. This includes their dependents. As service members, they fought for our families--and this bill will fight for theirs!” -James Gillespie, Community Impact & Government Relations Liaison. ###
01.24.2019	01.24.19 Gardner to Vote to Open the Government, Fund Border Security Washington, DC - Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today he will be voting for both measures to fund the remaining parts of the government and fund border security: “Today, I will vote for both options to fund the remaining parts of the government and fund border security,” said Senator Gardner. “I’ve consistently been against government shutdowns because I don’t think they are the right way to govern. It’s disappointing Senate Democrats are refusing to support the President’s reasonable compromise that would open the government, fund border security, and protect Dreamers. I will continue to work with a bipartisan group of Senators to find a compromise that opens the government and funds border security.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy.
01.23.2019	01.23.19 Gardner to Introduce Legislation to Pay Federal Workers Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced he will introduce legislation tomorrow to immediately pay federal workers affected by the current lapse in appropriations. The legislation would appropriate funds for all federal employees to be paid their standard pay during the shutdown regardless of their furlough status. With this bill, once the shutdown ends and regular appropriations are made, the amounts paid to compensate the federal employees will be deducted from the department’s full year appropriations to avoid any windfalls for the department. “I’ve made it clear that I do not believe government shutdowns are ever the right answer,” said Senator Gardner. “We must reopen the government, and I will continue working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to find a solution. In the interim, our federal workers should not be deprived of their paychecks. My legislation provides peace of mind for our 800,000 government employees who are struggling to make ends meet. I’ve heard firsthand from Coloradans who have been impacted by the ongoing shutdown. These families are in real pain and deserve relief.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy.
01.21.2019	01.21.19 Senator Cory Gardner Statement on Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Washington, DC - Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the below statement on Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.: “Today, we honor the teachings, life and legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. We reflect not just on what he said or did, but the change he set in motion,” said Senator Gardner. “Dr. King spent his life spreading what he called the gospel of freedom. He faced fierce opposition, but he never gave up and his words and example inspire us now. As Americans, there is so much more that unites us than divides us. Fundamentally, we all strive for a more perfect union and for a peaceful America, free of inequality and hate. In that spirit, I encourage everyone to search for what unites us and work together with our neighbors – because the future of our United States of America is as bright as ever.” ###
01.19.2019	01.19.19 Gardner Statement on Proposed Plan to End the Shutdown Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) made the following statement regarding President Trump’s plan to reopen the closed portions of the federal government: “The government must be reopened. This proposal recognizes that need and is an offshoot of earlier efforts to tie border security funding to immigration reform, but on a smaller scale for both. This is a reasonable proposal – no one gets everything they want. No one gets as much as they wanted. More than anything, though, this proposal does open the government and boost border security. While some may be tempted to stay crouched in their partisan corners, I hope a majority in Congress realize that compromise is a keystone of government and accept this offer.” ###
01.18.2019	01.18.19 Gardner, Shaheen, Barrasso, Jones, Scott, Sinema Introduce Legislation to Delay Obamacare Tax for Two Years Washington, DC – Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), John Barrasso (R-WY), Doug Jones (D-AL), Tim Scott (R-SC), and Kyrsten Sinema (D-AZ) introduced S. 172, the Health Insurance Tax Relief Act Wednesday to provide a two-year delay of the Health Insurance Tax (HIT) that was created by the Affordable Care Act. The tax is a fee to health insurers on their health policy premiums that increases costs on nearly everyone in the marketplace from seniors to small businesses. According to America’s Health Insurance Plans, if implemented in 2020, the Health Insurance Tax would levy $16 billion in fees on health insurance. If Congress fails to act, the HIT tax will increase premiums by 2.2% or $196 per person in the individual market, $479 per family in the small-group market, $458 in the large-group market and $157 for Medicaid premiums on average nationwide. Furthermore, according to actuarial analysis conducted by Oliver Wyman, without the HIT moratorium in place for plan year 2019, Medicare Advantage premiums would have increased by roughly 55.7% from $393.05 to $612.09. There are roughly 21 million seniors and individuals with disabilities enrolled in Medicare Advantage that would have been hit especially hard by this tax. “Without Congressional action, the Health Insurance Tax will impose fees on nearly 142 million American’s health care coverage in 2020,” said Senator Gardner. “According to Oliver Wyman, without a repeal of the Health Insurance Tax Coloradans will pay an estimated $162 more in 2020 when purchasing insurance on the individual marketplace. Senior citizens and the disabled, that rely heavily on Medicare Advantage face significant increases, and small businesses will be forced to pay an additional $448 for each of their employees. I’m proud to lead this bipartisan legislation that will make sure Americans are not forced to needlessly pay even more for their health insurance at a time when health care costs continue to rise.” “Patients deserve access to affordable, quality care – full stop. Making health care coverage more affordable requires an all hands on deck approach, and suspending the health insurance tax is one component of that effort,” said Senator Shaheen. “This bipartisan bill will improve our health care law and help reduce expensive health insurance premiums, which are impacting Granite State small businesses and residents, and millions more across the country. Congress needs to work together and reach across the aisle to address the problems affecting our health care system, and this bill is an important step forward. I’ll continue to prioritize bipartisan efforts that will decrease premiums, stabilize health insurance markets and provide quality care to every American.” “American families need relief from the health insurance tax,” said Senator Barrasso. “This needless Obamacare tax drives up premiums and makes it harder for patients to get the care they need. In the coming months, I look forward to supporting efforts to eliminate this harmful tax.” “Everyone deserves access to quality, affordable health care. Unfortunately, the high cost of health insurance continues to strain the pocketbooks of Alabama families and job creators alike,” said Senator Jones. “Lowering those costs is a top priority for me and that’s why I am proud to help introduce this bipartisan bill to suspend the Health Insurance Tax for an additional two years. By pausing this tax for another two years, our legislation will help lower premiums for small businesses, individuals, and seniors receiving coverage through Medicare Advantage.” “We need to do everything we can to ensure that every American has access to quality and affordable health care,” said Senator Scott. “If the health care insurance tax is not addressed quickly, we could see a dramatic increase in the price of health care in South Carolina and around the country. I am proud to stand with a bipartisan coalition of Senators in protecting both the health and wallets of every day Americans, small business owners, and seniors covered through Medicare Advantage.” “This tax raises costs for Arizona families and businesses,” said Senator Sinema. “I’m proud to work across party lines to help make healthcare more affordable for Arizonans.” ###
01.17.2019	01.17.19 Gardner, Group of Bipartisan Colleagues Reintroduce Bipartisan Bill to Prevent Any President from Leaving NATO Washington, DC – US Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO), Tim Kaine (D-VA), Jack Reed (D-RI), Lindsey Graham, (R-SC), Chris Coons (D-DE), Marco Rubio (R-FL), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), and Susan Collins (R-ME) reintroduced a bipartisan bill to explicitly prohibit any President of the United States from withdrawing from NATO without Senate approval. Just this week, reports indicate that over the past year, President Trump repeatedly raised withdrawing the United States from NATO. The bill requires the President to seek the advice and consent of the Senate to suspend, terminate, or withdraw US membership in NATO and formalizes the Senate’s opposition. If the President attempts to leave NATO without Senate approval, this legislation restricts any funding from being used to do so. It also authorizes Congressional Legal Counsel to challenge the Administration in court. “NATO is the most successful military alliance in history, and any effort to abandon it would be a monumental mistake,” said Senator Gardner. “I support the United States’ continued commitment to the alliance, including the provisions that require the armed support of all members in case of an attack on any one member, as was exercised after the 9/11 attack against the United States. As the Constitution requires and this legislation reaffirms, any change proposed by this administration or future administrations regarding America’s standing in this alliance can be done only with the advice and consent of the Senate.” “President Trump’s repeated threats to withdraw from NATO are dangerous,” said Senator Kaine. “Our NATO allies have fought alongside our troops since World War II, yet President Trump disparages these nations and cozies up to our adversaries. The President’s reckless decision-making—his abrupt withdrawal of U.S. troops from Syria and Afghanistan, his pullout from the Iran nuclear deal and Paris climate agreement, and his deference to Vladimir Putin —is destroying strategic partnerships we have forged with allies across the world. At a time of increased Russian aggression and global threats, our alliance with NATO is more important than ever to ensure the safety of the American people.” “As President Trump continues to find new ways to embolden Vladimir Putin and weaken the NATO alliance, this is a clear, bipartisan signal that Congress strongly rejects the idea of withdrawing from NATO. President Trump may waffle, but Congress and the American people won’t. We remain absolutely steadfast in our resolve to meet our commitments to the mutual defense of the NATO alliance,” said Senator Reed. “As Russia continues to meddle in European politics and threaten its neighbors, we must not turn our backs on NATO, which has advanced American interests and values for 70 years. I am proud to co-sponsor this bill, which reiterates the Senate’s unshakeable support for our NATO allies and European partners and will ensure President Trump cannot unilaterally withdraw the United States from the transatlantic alliance,” said SenatorCoons. “NATO is more important than ever with Russia’s growing subversive activities in the region and beyond,” said Senator Rubio. “It is critical to our national security and the security of our allies in Europe that the United States remain engaged and play an active role in NATO.” “Abandoning NATO would be a blunder of epic and enduring proportions. It would scuttle and sabotage relationships and alliances that are essential to our national security. Very simply: Congress must prevent the president from leaving NATO,” said Senator Blumenthal. “Over the past seven decades, NATO has proven to be the world’s most successful military alliance and a major force for peace, stability, and prosperity. It is critical that we reaffirm the United States’ commitment to this vital pillar of our national security,” said Senator Collins. “I encourage my colleagues to support this resolution, which would be a strong statement of support for this important alliance that serves the strategic interests of the United States.” NOTE: View full bill text here. ###
01.17.2019	01.17.19 Gardner, Bennet Announce $1.6 Million Grant for University of Colorado Washington, DC – Colorado US Senators Cory Gardner (R) and Michael Bennet (D) today announced the US Department of Energy’s Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy (ARPA-E) awarded $11 million for 7 projects in total, one of which is going to the state of Colorado. The Colorado project is funded through the OPEN+ program provided by ARPA-E OPEN+ program. “The University of Colorado Boulder will be able to grow their innovative research in soil and crop health with this $1.6 million grant,” said Senator Gardner. “It’s critical we continue to develop cutting-edge technologies that our farmers can utilize and I’ll always advocate for and support funding for these types of programs.” “As farmers and ranchers in Colorado navigate the uncertainty of persistent drought, investing in technology is one of the best ways we can provide them more opportunities for success,” said Senator Bennet.“Congratulations to the researchers at CU Boulder for securing this grant and leading the way to develop innovative tools to improve farming across the country.” The designated project is the Precision Agriculture using Networks of Degradable Analytical Sensors (PANDAS). The University of Colorado Boulder will receive $1,690,415, for the development of 3D-printed, biodegradable soil sensors. The PANDAS project aims to provide farmers with the capacity to monitor soil in real-time, increase soil carbon, and allow farmers to more readily determine land fertilizer and water needs. ###
01.15.2019	01.15.19 Gardner Introduces Legislation to Reevaluate the US Olympic Committee Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) introduced legislation today to establish the Commission on the State of U.S. Olympics and Paralympics. View Senator Gardner’s statement here or by clicking on the image above “In Colorado, we’re proud of our Olympic city, Colorado Springs, and all that our Olympic athletes mean to our great state,” said Senator Gardner. “But we know we can do better. That’s why I’ve introduced legislation today to make sure we are taking a look at the structure of the Olympic committee so that its presence in Colorado can grow even stronger and we can do a better job looking out for the futures of our Olympic and Paralympic athletes.” Under this legislation, Congress would establish a 16-member commission, all of whom would be required have experience in athletics, advocacy, or coaching, and half of which would be comprised of Olympians or Paralympians. The Commission would study the structure of the United States Olympic Committee (USOC) and determine whether or not the USOC board includes diverse membership, existing licensing and funding arrangements, oversight of sports' National Governing Bodies, and the recruitment of the Olympics and Paralympic games to the United States, along with other duties. The Commission would need to submit a final report to Congress with their findings, conclusions, recommendations, and any suggested policy changes. NOTE: Read bill text here. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy.
01.10.2019	01.10.19 Gardner Secures Upcoming Vote on Land and Water Conservation Fund Permanent Reauthorization Lands Bill Reintroduced Following Gardner Agreement Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) applauded the reintroduction of a bipartisan package of more than 100 public lands, natural resources, and water bills on Tuesday. Included in the lands package is permanent reauthorization of the Land and Water Conservation Fund. Permanent reauthorization of LWCF has been one of Senator Gardner’s top priorities and he has been working with a bipartisan group to find a path forward to protect this conservation program. This lands package achieves that goal. “Protecting the Land and Water Conservation fund and everything it does for Colorado’s public lands has been a top priority of mine, and I’m proud to announce that bipartisan legislation has been reintroduced to permanently reauthorize the program,” said Senator Gardner. “This legislation follows an agreement I helped broker in December with the Majority Leader and Minority Leader to bring this major victory for Colorado’s public lands to the floor early in the new Congress.” The lands package was placed directly on the Senate calendar yesterday for expedited consideration. Senator Gardner along with Senators Murkowski (R-AK), Cantwell (D-WA), Wyden (D-OR), Daines (R-MT), and Heinrich (D-NM) reached agreement with Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY), and Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.), late last year to consider the package early in the new Congress. View here Senator Gardner speaking at a recent rally he was leading to reauthorize the LWCF. The full text of the lands package can be found here, and the LWCF section is on page 448. NOTE: Downloadable File of Gardner Speaking on LWCF available here. To view background on additional Gardner authored bills and cosponsored bills included in the package click here. S. 36 – Crags, Colorado Land Exchange Act: The Crags bill facilitates an equal value land exchange between the Broadmoor Hotel and the United States Forest Service (USFS). This exchange has been a priority for USFS for quite some time. The completion of this land exchange will see enhanced recreational opportunities for the public on the Pike National Forest, which includes access to the Barr Trail, while easing the management burden on USFS by acquiring an inholding and no longer having to oversee a special use permit for the Emerald Valley Ranch. S. 37 – Bolts Ditch Access and Use Act: In 1980, Congress designated the Holy Cross Wilderness Area, but the designating legislation failed to include Bolts Ditch as an existing water facility. The town of Miniturn can only fill Bolts Lake, outside of the Holy Cross Wilderness, by using the Bolts ditch and headgate. This legislation will allow Miniturn to acquire a special use permit to access the ditch and headgate in the wilderness area. S. 33 – To update the map of, and modify the maximum acreage available for inclusion in, the Florissant Fossil Beds National Monument: The park is currently capped in its size at 6,000 acres. However, a local conservation group has taken 280 acres of private land adjacent to the existing park in to trust and the park has received support from the local community to incorporate the parcel in to the park. This legislation revises the monument designation to incorporate the additional 280 acre parcel. S. 38 – Endangered Fish Recovery Programs Extension Act: Originally created in 1988 over concern for four endangered fish, the Upper Colorado Endangered Fish Recovery Implementation Program has been extended multiple times over the last 30 years, most recently in 2013. The science-based, basin wide approach this program has taken have precluded any lawsuits being filed despite the diverse stakeholder group involved. This legislation will extend the authorization of the program through 2023. S. 35 – Amache Study Act: During World War II, tens of thousands of Japanese Americans, including many American citizens, were removed from their homes and held in internment centers. One such internment center was located on the eastern plains of Colorado in town called Granada. Amache, as the internment center came to be known, was designated as a National Historic Landmark in 2005. This bill directs the National Park Service to study the Amache site for inclusion as a unit of the National Park System. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy.
01.04.2019	01.04.19 Gardner, Rubio, Risch, McConnell Introduce Bill to Strengthen US Security in Middle East, Bolster Israel Alliance & Sanction Syria’s Dictatorship Legislation will Receive Senate Vote Next Week Washington, DC – US Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO), Marco Rubio (R-FL), James Risch (R-ID), and Mitch McConnell (R-KY) introduced the Strengthening America’s Security in the Middle East Act of 2019 (S. 1). This legislation would make improvements to defense and security assistance provisions in the Middle East, bolster the US-Israel strategic alliance by authorizing security assistance to Israel over a 10-year period pursuant to the 2016 Memorandum of Understanding, reauthorize the United States-Jordan Defense Cooperation Act of 2015, provide new authorities for sanctions against Syria’s Assad regime and its supporters, and empower state and local governments in the United States to counter the anti-Israel boycott, divestment and sanctions (BDS) movement’s discriminatory economic warfare against the Jewish state. In December, Gardner and several of his colleagues sent a letter to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) and Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-NY) urging them to take action against the anti-Israel and anti-Semitic Boycott, Divestment, and Sanctions (BDS) movement.“I am proud to sponsor this legislation, which enhances our alliances in the Middle East, condemns the heinous human rights abuses of the Assad regime, and takes a strong stance against the anti-Israel and anti-Semitic BDS movement,” Gardner said. “This bill greatly enhances our national security and I urge its quick and bipartisan passage into law.” “It is in America’s national security interests to ensure that our allies in the Middle East like Israel and Jordan remain secure amid the region’s growing destabilizing threats posed by Iran and Syria’s Assad regime,” Rubio said. “This important bill will also impose new sanctions against the Assad regime and its supporters who continue to commit horrific human rights violations against the Syrian people. I look forward to working with my colleagues in Congress and the Administration to quickly pass and enact this critical piece of legislation.”“This package of legislation is an important step toward finishing the work of the last Congress. Israel and Jordan have been steadfast allies of the United States that deserve this support,” Risch said. “Also, it is vital to confront Syrian government atrocities and end discrimination against Israel. The Senate Foreign Relations Committee reviewed these bills last Congress and they had near unanimous support. It is time to move them forward.” ###
01.02.2019	01.02.19 Gardner, Markey Comprehensive Asia Policy Legislation Becomes Law Washington, DC – The Asia Reassurance Initiative Act of 2018, authored by Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Ed Markey (D-MA), Chairman and Ranking Member of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy was signed into law by President Donald Trump on Monday. This legislation serves as a generational policy framework to enhance U.S. leadership in the Indo-Pacific region and to demonstrate a commitment to a free and open Indo-Pacific and the rules-based international order. In the 115th Congress, Gardner and Markey held five hearings in their Subcommittee to inform ARIA. The hearing series, titled, “American Leadership in the Asia-Pacific,” included hearings on security challenges, economic opportunities, promoting human rights and the rule of law, U.S.-China relations, and Administration views. “Our nation took a huge step to ensure the United States remains the pre-eminent Pacific power – and primary supporter of the international order – for generations to come,” said Senators Gardner and Markey. “We are proud that our legislation to establish a long-term strategy in Asia has been signed into law. ARIA allows the United States government to speak with one voice to advance our nation’s national security and economic interests in the Indo-Pacific by establishing forward-looking policies, authorizing additional resources to strengthen our alliances and partnerships in the region, and speaking with moral clarity on fundamental American values of democracy, human rights, and the rule of law.” Read more on ARIA legislation here. ###
12.21.2018	12.21.18 Gardner, Markey Tout Successful Partnership as Leaders on Asia Policy in the 115th Congress Washington, D.C. - Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Ed Markey (D-MA), Chairman and Ranking Member of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity, today reflected on the Subcommittee’s work in the 115th Congress and celebrated their success in being the most productive Foreign Relations subcommittee and sending to be signed into law one of the most consequential legislative initiatives on Asia policy for generations. “I want to thank Senator Markey for being such an incredible partner on this subcommittee,” said Gardner. “Together, we held the most hearings of any Foreign Relations subcommittee in the 115th Congress – quite an achievement for the American people who sent us here to conduct vigorous oversight over our nation’s foreign affairs. Through our partnership we were able to pass ARIA, landmark legislation to guide United States foreign policy in Asia that will ensure that the United States remains the leading Pacific power for generations to come. I look forward to continuing our important work together in the 116th Congress.” “I am proud of the work of the East Asia subcommittee, including our numerous hearings and discussion on the evolving challenges that Chinese policies and influence pose to the United States, to our allies and partners, and to the international system we built together to ensure stability, prosperity, and equality for all,” said Markey. “Passage of the Gardner-Markey Asia Reassurance Act was a capstone to our work, and will serve as an important guide for U.S. foreign policy in Asia. Senator Gardner has been a tremendous partner and friend on the subcommittee, and I look forward to continuing our work together.” The Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity held 11 hearings in 2017-2018, the most hearings of any Foreign Relations subcommittee in the 115th Congress. In conjunction with these hearings, Senators Gardner and Ed Markey (D-MA) authored the Asia Reassurance Initiative Act (ARIA) -- landmark legislation that will strengthen our alliances and deter our adversaries in the Indo-Pacific for generations to come. To inform this legislation, the subcommittee conducted five hearings, examining a range of national security, economic, and rule of law challenges in the Indo-Pacific. The last hearing on May 15, 2018, featured State Department and Department of Defense officials. On June 21,2018, Secretary Pompeo and Secretary Mattis formally endorsed ARIA in a formal letter to the committee. ARIA passed both houses of Congress and is now on its way to the President’s desk to be signed into law. The subcommittee held two specific hearings focused on North Korea, examining the shift from “strategic patience” policy of the Obama Administration to the “maximum pressure and engagement” policy of the Trump Administration. The subcommittee agreed that clearly much more work needs to be done to achieve complete, verifiable, and irreversible denuclearizing of the North Korean regime, as required by U.S. law. Additionally, Gardner and Markey held a hearing on cybersecurity policy, examining state-sponsored threats in cyberspace that represents a vital national security concern for the United States that needs to be seriously and immediately addressed. Finally, the subcommittee held a three-part series of hearings, titled “The China Challenge” that examined how the United States should respond to the challenge of a China that seeks to upend – and supplant – the U.S-led liberal world order. The first two hearings focused on security and economic aspects of China’s authoritarian rise. The final hearing focused on democracy, human rights, and the rule of law -- values that have been fundamental to the conduct of U.S. foreign policy for generations. ###
12.21.2018	12.21.18 Gardner Leads Colleagues in Condemning the Anti-Israel, Anti-Semitic BDS Movement Washington, DC – In the wake of comments made by several incoming Democratic members of Congress, Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) sent a letter Thursday to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) and Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-NY) with 14 of his colleagues, urging them to take action against the anti-Israel and anti-Semitic Boycott, Divestment, and Sanctions (BDS) movement. “We urge you to issue a joint statement publicly condemning BDS and to prioritize legislative efforts in the next session of Congress to counter this destructive trend,” the Senators wrote. “We note there were bipartisan legislative efforts, including the Combating BDS Act (S.170) and the Israel Anti-Boycott Act (S.720), which were introduced in the 115th Congress.” NOTE: View letter here. The letter reads in full: Dear Leaders McConnell and Schumer: We write today to bring to your attention a disturbing development concerning the anti-Israel and anti-Semitic movement known as Boycott, Divestment, and Sanctions (BDS). Regrettably, in recent days, future members of the U.S. House of Representatives have publicly expressed support for this extreme movement. We urge you to issue a joint statement publicly condemning BDS and to prioritize legislative efforts in the next session of Congress to counter this destructive trend. We note there were bipartisan legislative efforts, including the Combating BDS Act (S.170) and the Israel Anti-Boycott Act (S.720), which were introduced in the 115th Congress. Israel is our country’s most steadfast ally in a highly volatile region of the world. The State of Israel has proven itself to be a resilient beacon of democratic values, despite facing existential threats daily since its founding in 1948. Working closely together, our two countries have worked to fight terrorism, to stop the spread of radical Islamist ideologies, and to prevent nuclear and chemical weapons proliferation by rogue regimes, such as Syria and the Islamic Republic of Iran. As then-President Barack Obama stated in his speech in Jerusalem on March 21, 2013: “Israel has established a thriving democracy – with a spirited civil society, proud political parties, a tireless free press, and a lively public debate – lively may even be an understatement. And Israel has achieved this even as it has overcome relentless threats to its security – through the courage of the Israel Defense Forces, and a citizenry that is resilient in the face of terror.” Simply put, the BDS movement seeks to de-legitimize the State of Israel and its people. Senator Schumer, as you so eloquently stated on March 6, 2018: “We must continue to stand firm against the profoundly biased campaign to delegitimize the State of Israel through [BDS]…While Iran publicly executes its citizens, Turkey jails its journalists, scores of Arab nations punish homosexuality with imprisonment and torture, why does BDS single Israel out alone for condemnation?” It is disheartening to see future members of Congress take a position on BDS that is not only highly biased, but contrary to fundamental facts and detrimental to U.S. national security interests. We therefore respectfully urge you to immediately condemn these comments and to show bipartisan support for our ally Israel. Sincerely, ###
12.21.2018	12.21.18 Gardner Backed Bipartisan Bill Allowing Families to Answer FAFSA Questions With Just One Click Passes Senate Making it easier for students and families to complete tax information on the Free Application for Federal Student Aid Washington, DC — The United States Senate passed bipartisan legislation introduced by Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO), Lamar Alexander (R-TN), Patty Murray (D-WA), and Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI). This legislation will allow the nearly 20 million students that complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) each year to answer at least 11 and up to 22 questions on the form with just one click. The bill will allow students to have the IRS securely send the Department of Education their federal tax information with one click. The bill will also help simplify the process for getting through income-driven repayment applications and the student aid “verification” process. Now that the Senate has passed the legislation, it will head to the U.S. House of Representatives. “Ensuring students are able to complete their FAFSA forms each year is crucial to continuing their education,” said Senator Gardner. “This bipartisan legislation makes the complex process easier for students and their parents so that no student has to miss out on educational opportunities because completing their forms was made more difficult than it needed to be.” “The former president of Southwest Community College in Memphis once told me he believes that he loses 1,500 students each semester because of the complexity of the FAFSA,” said Alexander. “Over and over families have asked me, ‘I’ve already given most of this information to the federal government when I paid my taxes, why do I have to do it again—once is enough.’ This legislation will make completing the complicated FAFSA much easier for students and families—allowing them to answer up to 22 questions on the form with one simple click, while securing the applicant’s data. It is my hope that the U.S. House of Representatives swiftly passes this legislation.” “Our nation’s outdated and overly complicated financial aid system is forcing students and student loan borrowers to jump through too many hoops to access federal financial aid, verify the tax returns they’ve already filled out, or get help if they’re struggling to pay their student loans,” said Murray. “I’m pleased to work with my colleagues on this needed fix to federal financial aid, and I urge the House to pass this quickly so students and borrowers are able navigate their financial aid through a streamlined and efficient process.” “Putting prospective college students and their families through endless paperwork is more than an annoyance. Needlessly complicated forms like the FAFSA are a real obstacle to Rhode Island students continuing their education,” said Whitehouse. “I’m happy to join Sen. Alexander to introduce this legislation. It’s a smart way to reduce the burden of the FAFSA with a simple, secure online process.” The Faster Access to Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) Act will make FAFSA completion easier and more secure for nearly 20 million students by: Improving and securing the way individuals’ IRS tax information is sent to the Department of Education. Turning a 7-click process into a single click process – that answers at least 11 and up to 22 questions – to transfer IRS tax filling data to the Department of Education. Allowing 8 to 9 million more FAFSA filers to use their existing IRS tax filing information. Reducing the burdensome verification processes for students and parents filing for aid. Automating the annual process for 7 million borrowers in income driven repayment to recertify their income and remain in their repayment plan. Background on FAFSA: Currently 54% of FAFSAs are filed with information received from the IRS by parents or students using the Data Retrieval Tool to request and transfer tax information from the IRS to the Department of Education. The current process for students or parents to transfer tax information to the FAFSA requires the applicant to give direct permission to the IRS to send tax information to ED. This requires the applicant to jump from FAFSA website to IRS website and back to ED website which takes a total of 7 clicks. For 37% of FAFSAs, either the student or the parent does not file taxes. The new process will allow the IRS to confirm that those students or parents have not filed. Background on Income Driven Repayment: Almost a third of borrowers in repayment on federal student loans are in an income-driven repayment program. These programs require that borrowers certify their income on an annual basis. If borrowers fail to complete this process, they are automatically reentered into standard 10 year repayment. Each year 19 percent of borrowers in IDR fail to recertify their income on-time, resulting in payment spikes and interest capitalization for approximately 1.3 million borrowers. ###
12.20.2018	12.20.18 Gardner Announces $9 Million Grant for Southwest Chief Rail Line Washington, DC - Today, Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), a member of the Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee, announced the Department of Transportation (DOT) has awarded a $9 million Consolidated Rail Infrastructure and Safety Improvements (CRISI) grant to help with the installation of Positive Train Control (PTC) technology on the Dodge City, Kansas to Las Animas, Colorado section of the Southwest Chief. “I’m proud to be a strong advocate for the Southwest Chief, which is so important to rural communities in Southeastern Colorado,” said Gardner. “I appreciate the work of our local communities to continually advocate for the Southwest Chief and I will continue my efforts at the federal level to provide all of the necessary support for their efforts.” As a member of the Senate Commerce Committee, Gardner has strongly advocated for the Southwest Chief. In August, Gardner worked with a bipartisan group of his colleagues to successfully include an amendment in appropriations legislation that would set aside resources for improvements on the Southwest Chief. Earlier this year, he questioned Amtrak Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer Scot Naparstek regarding the decision to withhold $3 million in matching funds it previously promised to provide as part of the successful Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) grant announced in March 2018. In July, Gardner joined a bipartisan group of Senators in sending a letter to Amtrak President and CEO Richard Anderson raising concerns with Amtrak’s consideration of providing bus service in lieu of passenger rail service for a portion of the Southwest Chief line, including in Colorado. The letter also urged Amtrak to apply for CRISI grant funding. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
12.20.2018	12.20.18 Gardner Calls on Trump Administration to Cancel North Korea Meetings, Increase Pressure on Kim Jong Un Washington, DC - Today, Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the below statement following reports that North Korea has no plans to denuclearize: “Despite commitments Kim Jong Un has made and repeatedly violated, North Korea continues to defy the will of the international community,” said Senator Gardner. “Today, we are nowhere closer to the only goal we should have - the complete, verifiable, and irreversible denuclearization of the North Korean regime. Kim Jong Un continues to break his promises, and his actions suggest the potential summit is dead on arrival. Until Pyongyang takes concrete steps to denuclearize we should further ramp up the sanctions and call for our global partners to join us in a maximum pressure campaign that will give Kim Jong Un two options: denuclearize or be further isolated from the world.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
12.20.2018	12.20.18 Gardner Thanks Colorado Law Enforcement During the Holidays Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) honored the sacrifices Colorado law enforcement officers make in order to keep Colorado communities safe. He also remembered the life of Sergeant Matthew Troy Moreno whose watch was ended on December 12th, 2018. Gardner spoke on the Senate floor Wednesday on the importance of taking the time to honor the heroism displayed by law enforcement officers across the state and the country to keep us all safe. NOTE: View Senator Gardner’s floor remarks here or by clicking on the photo above Remarks as delivered: Thank you, Mr. President. I come to the floor today to honor our men and women in law enforcement. As Members of Congress and their staffs head home this holiday season, we must remember the sacrifice of those who make our communities safe, those who make our safety possible. Across the United States this year 143 law enforcement officers have paid the ultimate price. In Colorado we honor 3 fallen officers. Deputy Sheriff Heath McDonald Gumm whose final act was to bravely pursue an armed suspect. We’ll never forget the courage and bravery of his action. Deputy Sheriff Micah Lee Flick who was killed in the line of duty in February of this year after serving in the El Paso County Sheriff’s Office for 11 years. I’d also like to honor the memory of Sergeant Matthew Moreno who was killed in the line of duty in Los Animas County just last week. He was responding to reports of domestic violence when his cruiser, and that of another officer, crashed into a civilian vehicle headed in the opposite direction. Unfortunately the occupants of the other vehicle, including a one year old child, also lost their lives. The pain of losing loved ones this close to the holidays is unimaginable. Sergeant Moreno ends his watch after serving honorably for 5 years, survived by his loving family including his 3 beautiful children: Summer, Morgan, and Jared. He’s been described as being a super hero to his kids, seems very fitting given the bravery that he showed throughout his career. He is also remembered for his sense of humor, his love for hunting and fishing, something almost all Coloradans can relate to. Our prayers are certainly with the family of Sergeant Moreno and with the families of those in the other vehicle. I’d also like to offer my sincere condolences to the entire Las Animas County Sheriff’s department who have lost not just a fellow officer but a brother. Each one of the officers we lost this year was a neighbor, a loved family member, an extraordinary Coloradan who gave their life to protect their communities. Although the need is great, so few of us are blessed with the level of bravery and courage shown each and every day by the men and women in law enforcement. As we all enjoy the warmth of this holiday season, law enforcement officers around the country will stand guard in cold and uncertain streets, this includes the selfless men and women who serve right here in the U.S. Capitol who worked through the holiday to ensure every American visiting the nation’s capital can do so safely. It’s important that we keep them in our thoughts as we gather with family and friends this holiday season to celebrate. I would also like to take a moment to thank the families of these brave men and women whose sacrifices must not be forgotten. They endure time apart from their loved ones so that families, like millions across this country, will know peace and security during their holiday celebrations. When thinking about the brave men and women defending that thin blue line, I’m always reminded of the words of Lieutenant Colonel Dave Grossman who said, “American law enforcement is the loyal and brave sheep dog always standing watch for the wolf that lurks in the dark.” It’s my hope that the thoughts and prayers we all offer to those wearing the blue uniform will offer them comfort as they carry out this solemn duty. I am thankful for their service and thankful to the families for their continued sacrifice. Also reminded of the words of Joe Rice, a former state legislator in Colorado that I served with, who during the holiday season, said this prayer, served in Iraq and Afghanistan and wrote how he prays for his fellow soldiers and their safety each and every day, this: “For all those around the world in harm’s way, we pray with you, please God, just not today.” Each and every day, we echo that same prayer. Thank you to the men and women in blue. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
12.19.2018	12.19.18 Gardner, Bennet Demand Immediate Action Be Taken on Veterans Affairs Wait Times Washington, DC – Colorado U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R) and Michael Bennet (D) today sent a letter to Secretary of Veterans Affairs Robert Wilkie demanding action be taken immediately to remedy wait times at Veterans Affairs Eastern Colorado Health Care System (ECHCS) facilities. The senators requested a report on how the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) will use existing and new authorities to address these unacceptable wait times. “The troubling November 2018 numbers demonstrate that the VA needs to prioritize solutions for Colorado veterans,” the Senators wrote. “As such, as MISSION is implemented, we request a report on how the VA intends to use existing authorities, as well as the new flexibility and tools provided in the MISSION Act, to expeditiously fix issues with wait times across ECHCS.” NOTE: View the letter here. The letter reads in full Dear Secretary Wilkie, We write today to demand immediate action on unacceptable wait times at VA Eastern Colorado Health Care System facilities. For the period ending on December 1, 2018, VA data show that 16.65 percent of medical appointments scheduled through the VA Eastern Colorado Health Care System (ECHCS) have a wait time of over 30 days. These wait times are the worst in the nation. This includes 7,374 belated appointments at the Rocky Mountain Regional VA Medical Center, 1,201 at the PFC James Dunn Clinic in Pueblo, and 7,014 at the PFC Floyd K. Lindstrom Outpatient Clinic at Colorado Springs. The latest numbers are even worse than the 13.5 percent of over 30-day appointments that the Denver Post cited in a July 2017 article on ECHCS wait times. Unacceptably high rates persist after years of congressional action, an alarming inspector general report, and a $1.73 billion new facility designed to improve access to care across the Rocky Mountain region. The wait time issue is a disservice to Colorado veterans. With the passage of the VA Maintaining Systems and Strengthening Integrated Outside Networks (MISSION) Act in June 2018, Congress acted, with our support, to enhance the health care experience for our nation’s veterans. This bipartisan legislation provides new capabilities to the VA with the goal of improving the timeliness of veterans’ access to health care. The troubling November 2018 numbers demonstrate that the VA needs to prioritize solutions for Colorado veterans. As such, as MISSION is implemented, we request a report on how the VA intends to use existing authorities, as well as the new flexibility and tools provided in the MISSION Act, to expeditiously fix issues with wait times across ECHCS. ###
12.19.2018	12.19.18 Gardner Releases Statement on China’s Human Rights Abuses Calls for the Trump Administration to Take Action Washington, DC - Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity, released the below statement today following reports that products sold in the United States were manufactured in Chinese forced labor camps in the Xinjiang Autonomous Province. On December 4, 2018, Gardner held a hearing in his subcommittee specifically focused on China’s human rights abuses. The hearing was the first public instance where the U.S. State Department publicly revealed that over 2 million Uighurs and other Muslim minorities are being detained in modern-day concentration camps in Xinjiang. On December 12, 2018, Gardner condemned China’s human rights abuses in a personal meeting with China’s Ambassador to the United States, Cu Tiankai. “China’s actions in Xinjiang are unacceptable, barbaric, and an affront to basic civilized norms and human rights,” said Senator Gardner. “I urge the Administration to take urgent action to help the Uighurs, including imposing sanctions on the Chinese authorities responsible for these abuses, and imposing an immediate import ban to ensure any products manufactured by forced labor in China never reach the United States.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
12.19.2018	12.19.18 Gardner Votes for Criminal Justice Reform Will Continue to Push for Marijuana Reform through the States Act Washington, DC - Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the below statement following the Senate's passage of sweeping criminal justice reform legislation, the First Step Act: "After years of bipartisan work, the Senate took a monumental step forward to reform our nation's criminal justice system," said Senator Gardner. "Although I thought my amendment that would have ensured each state has the right to determine for itself the best approach to marijuana within its borders should have been included in this criminal justice reform package, I still supported the final measure because it will have a real impact on how we help people reenter society after they have served their sentence. The Senate proved Tuesday night that we can accomplish big goals if we work together on behalf of the American people, and I hope we can continue this bipartisan spirit of cooperation. I will continue to push for my bipartisan STATES Act to receive a vote in the Senate, but I'm proud of what we were able to accomplish on Tuesday." Gardner introduced an amendment earlier this week to protect state decisions across the country with respect to regulating marijuana. You can watch his speech on the Senate floor about the amendment here. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
12.18.2018	12.18.18 Gardner Sends Bipartisan Letter Calling for Response to Allegations of Chinese Government Election Interference Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and the International Cybersecurity Policy, sent a letter with a group of bipartisan Senators to Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and other national security leaders in the Trump Administration expressing concern about continued attempts by the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) to undermine democracy. Specifically, the letter encourages the Administration to work closely with Taiwan to investigate the allegations of interference and respond if deemed necessary. “CCP attempts to erode democratic processes and norms around the world threaten U.S. partnerships and prosperity,” the Senators wrote. “Allegations such as those surrounding Taiwan’s recent elections must therefore be pursued with seriousness and urgency.…We write to express our support for efforts to counter interference of this nature and to state unequivocally that we stand shoulder to shoulder with democracies fighting attempts to undermine their sovereignty and freedom. We encourage your departments to do all you can to support Taiwan in investigating these allegations and taking necessary action in response. “It is not our intent, nor our role, to question the veracity or fairness of the electoral outcome. Rather, in an era of growing authoritarian interference, we believe such allegations must be taken seriously if free societies are to continue to thrive. If true, CCP interference in Taiwan’s elections would be deeply concerning not only for Taiwan’s future, but also for fellow democracies around the world where the CCP may choose to interfere.” Gardner has prioritized the U.S.-Taiwan relationship during this time in the Senate, including enacting legislation into law, conducting three official visits to Taiwan, and frequent high-level meetings with Taiwan’s leadership, including most recently meeting President Tsai Ing-Wen during her transit through the United States in August 2018. In the 114th Congress, Gardner authored legislation to require the Department of State to develop a strategy to include Taiwan as an observer in INTERPOL, which was signed into law by President Obama in March 2016. In the 115th Congress, he introduced the Taiwan Security Act with Senator Tom Cotton (R-AR) in July 2017, a bill that would enhance the security relationship between our two nations. In 2018, he worked with his Subcommittee ranking member Senator Edward Markey (D-MA) to introduce the Taiwan International Participation Act of 2018 (TIPA), a bill aiming to ensure Taiwan’s participation in appropriate international organizations, as well as the Taiwan Allies International Protection and Enhancement Initiative (TAIPEI) ACT legislation requiring the U.S. government to engage with nations around the world to maintain and grow ties with Taiwan. Senator Catherine Cortez Masto (D-NV), Senators Marco Rubio (R-FL), Chris Coons (D-DE), Michael Bennet (D-CO), and Ted Cruz (R-TX) also joined the letter. NOTE: View the letter here. The letter reads in full Dear Secretaries Pompeo and Mnuchin, Directors Coats and Wray: We write with concern about allegations that the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) interfered in Taiwan’s recent elections. CCP attempts to erode democratic processes and norms around the world threaten U.S. partnerships and prosperity. Allegations such as those surrounding Taiwan’s recent elections must therefore be pursued with seriousness and urgency. We appreciate the actions your departments are already taking to address CCP foreign interference. We encourage you to work closely with Taiwan authorities to thoroughly investigate these allegations and, if necessary, take swift action to deter future CCP interference in elections in Taiwan or elsewhere across the globe. In the lead-up to Taiwan’s local elections on November 24, 2018, Taiwan authorities and independent observers alleged that the CCP used illegal funds and disinformation to influence the election results in favor of the CCP’s strategic interests. It is not our intent, nor our role, to question the veracity or fairness of the electoral outcome. Rather, in an era of growing authoritarian interference, we believe such allegations must be taken seriously if free societies are to continue to thrive. If true, CCP interference in Taiwan’s elections would be deeply concerning not only for Taiwan’s future, but also for fellow democracies around the world where the CCP may choose to interfere. Taiwan authorities’ statements suggest that illegal campaign contributions to pro-Beijing political candidates were one of the primary tools of alleged CCP interference. In October, Taiwan authorities announced that they were investigating 33 cases of alleged funding from China to political campaigns in Taiwan. If true, the donations would be in violation of Taiwan’s Political Donations Act and the Act Governing Relations Between the People of the Taiwan Area and the Mainland Area. Indeed, Taiwan investigators reportedly conducted raids on two illicit money exchanges funneling money to pro-Beijing election activities in Taiwan. Authorities are also investigating allegations that CCP-linked individuals tried to bribe or coerce voters. Taiwan authorities have also accused the CCP of using disinformation to shape public opinion of political candidates deemed unsympathetic to Beijing’s interests. They allege the CCP spread false information through social media and messaging platforms, including Facebook, Line, and the online bulletin board, PTT. Some candidates have even claimed to possess evidence showing that these disinformation campaigns originated from mainland Chinese IP addresses. As Deputy Assistant Secretary (DAS) of State Scott Busby said last month in Taiwan, “At a time of democratic backsliding and human rights abuses elsewhere in the Indo-Pacific region, Taiwan serves as an invaluable model to others. And given the challenges we all face, it is especially important that democracies like Taiwan and the United States stand together in promoting a brighter future, free of repression, censorship, and exploitation.” In the spirit of DAS Busby’s remarks, we write to express our support for efforts to counter interference of this nature and to state unequivocally that we stand shoulder to shoulder with democracies fighting attempts to undermine their sovereignty and freedom. We encourage your departments to do all you can to support Taiwan in investigating these allegations and taking necessary action in response. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
12.18.2018	12.18.18 Gardner Takes to Senate Floor to Fight for States’ Rights and Protect States’ Legal Marijuana Operations “Mr. President, I yield my time and will not give up this fight” Washington, DC - Today, Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) spoke on the Senator floor after his legislation to protect the marijuana industry in states across the country was blocked from being voted on as an amendment to the First Step Act. NOTE: Click here or on the image above to view Gardner’s remarks. Remarks as prepared for delivery: Thank you Mr. President, I thank the Senator from Iowa, Chairman Grassley. After much debate, disagreement, and compromise, the Senate this week is taking up a criminal justice reform package. The package shows the American people that bipartisanship is alive. Leaders on both sides of the aisle as well as the White House should be commended for their admirable and persistent cooperation and determination. The package’s goals are noble: it is right to help those that have paid their debt re-enter society with the best possible chance to be productive contributors; it is right to take steps to ensure that sentences are fair and appropriately tailored to the defendant; and it is right to calibrate the way we treat those in custody based on the risk they pose to society. But being from Colorado, it is hard to think about federal criminal justice reform without thinking about the biggest problem the federal criminal law creates for Colorado: the refusal to respect the will of Coloradans when it comes to marijuana. Every day, Coloradans of good faith follow Colorado law to a T, yet they are still criminals in the eyes of the federal government. Cancer patients using medical marijuana to control their pain and veterans who are using marijuana to alleviate the PTSD they suffer because they served their country – federal law says they are criminals. The People do not think that. So the federal law should change. This disconnect doesn’t just effect the industry’s patrons, or even just its growers and retailers for that matter. It also makes criminals of those outside the industry. Plumbers, electricians, bankers, landlords and real estate service providers, employment and advertising agencies, insurance companies, HR services, and all of the everyday businesses that interact with the marijuana industry (like they do any other part of our economy) are affected by the federal law, too. That’s because when they take money from a marijuana business federal law considers them money launderers – putting them at risk for both criminal liability and civil asset forfeiture. The disconnect forces Colorado’s $1.5 billion market into the pseudo-shadows, where business is in hard-to-track cash, inviting dangerous robberies and hindering law enforcement efforts to ensure that legal marijuana sales benefits legitimate businesses rather than illicit cartels. It also means that researchers can’t test marijuana for medical efficacy or to help better understand impairment because those researchers fear of losing federal funding. All of this flies in the face of what the Colorado people have chosen for themselves. Indeed, it flies in the face of the 33 states that now have some form of legalized marijuana, including 10 that allow regulated adult use. This year alone, Oklahoma, Missouri, and Utah have passed laws establishing medical marijuana programs and Michigan and Vermont have passed laws permitting regulated adult use. And Wisconsin voters in 16 counties overwhelming passed advisory referenda supporting legalization. This isn’t fluke. Recent polling from Quinnipiac shows more than 60% of the American people support legalized marijuana and 93% support medical marijuana. The American people have made up their minds: this is happening. Let’s be clear: this isn’t just happening in “blue state” California and Massachusetts or “purple” states like Colorado. It’s happening in “red” states like Utah, Oklahoma, and West Virginia. And it’s happening in “swing” states like Florida, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Michigan, and Missouri. The bedrock principle of our government expressed in the Declaration of Independence is that governments derive their “just powers from the consent of the governed.” As the federal government continues to ignore the will of the People, the People lose respect for the law. The Congress must respond because one way or the other the People will have their say. That is why Sen. Warren and I are offering the STATES Act as an amendment to the criminal justice package before the Senate. The Act is simple and straight-forward. Within certain basic federal guardrails, conduct in compliance with state marijuana law will not violate the Controlled Substances Act. This legislation is the embodiment of the federalism our Founders envisioned. It allows each state to move – if at all – at its own pace. It lets states like Colorado be the laboratory of democracy the American people have come to expect. But most importantly, it lets Colorado be Colorado, South Carolina be South Carolina, and Florida be Florida – and they all will have federal prosecutors backing up whatever decision they make with respect to marijuana. The people of Colorado have made their decision. I didn’t vote for legalization in 2012, but I respect my state’s decision. Its people know that what is right for the Colorado might not be what’s right for the people of South Carolina or Florida. But their decision should be respected and supported by the federal government, just like the decisions in every other state. I am all for helping those that have paid their debt to society, but there are many for whom there should be no debt. That is why the STATES Act should be included in federal criminal justice reform. Let’s close with this map, over 95% of the population of the United States lives in a state where they have legalized some form of marijuana. Every state in green is a state that has legalized some form of marijuana. By the year 2022, this industry will be over $20 billion, all of which can’t be in the banking system because it’s against federal law, and what happens when you force a $20 billion all cash economy – I guess that’s what we ought to be dealing with here today. This isn’t just about banking, that’s a side effect of the STATES Act, the STATES Act recognizes that federalist principle that a state can decide this issue for itself. This amendment at this time recognizes that you shouldn’t go to federal prison for following state law. That in its essence is sentencing reform. If we had a chance to vote on this amendment today the amendment would be germane, it would be a 50 vote threshold, simple majority up or down, and I know that this bill - this amendment has the support from this body on both sides of the aisle to fix this conflict and allow the states to make their own decisions without the heavy hand of Washington telling them what to do. Mr. President, I yield my time and will not give up this fight. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
12.17.2018	12.17.18 Gardner Introduces States’ Rights Amendment to Protect Marijuana Industry Washington, DC - Today, Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) introduced an amendment to the First Step Act that, if adopted, would ensure that each state has the right to determine for itself the best approach to marijuana within its borders. The bill also extends these protections to Washington D.C, U.S. territories, and federally recognized tribes, and contains common-sense guardrails to ensure that states, territories, and tribes regulating marijuana do so safely. “Saturday marked the 227th anniversary of the ratification of the 10th Amendment to the Constitution. It says that ‘[t]he powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the States respectively, or to the people.’ I can think of no better way to honor that milestone than to pass the bipartisan STATES Act, and I can think of no better legislation to attach the STATES Act to than the First Step Act,” said Senator Gardner. “While we are debating criminal justice reform, we need to address the threat of prosecution by the federal government for people in Colorado that are operating legal businesses under state law. And it’s not just Colorado: 47 states now allow some form of legalized cannabis. This year Oklahoma, Utah, and Missouri changed their laws to join 30 other states that allow medical marijuana. Recent polls show around 65% of the country support legalization and 93% support medical marijuana. The people are speaking. The states are leading. It’s time for Congress to act to protect states’ rights. I call on my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to take up and pass this important amendment today.” The Amendment mirrors the language of the bipartisan STATES Act Gardner introduced with Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) in June and would: Amends the Controlled Substances Act (CSA) so that - as long as states and tribes comply with a few basic protections - its provisions no longer apply to any person acting in compliance with State or tribal laws relating to marijuana activities. Clearly states that compliant transactions are not trafficking and do not result in proceeds of an unlawful transaction. The following federal criminal provisions under the CSA continue to apply: Prohibits endangering human life while manufacturing marijuana. Prohibits employment of persons under age 18 in drug operations. Prohibits the distribution of marijuana at transportation safety facilities such as rest areas and truck stops. Prohibits the distribution or sale of marijuana to persons under the age of 21 other than for medical purposes. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
12.13.2018	12.13.18 Gardner-backed Legislation to Combat Sexual Harassment in Congress Passes Senate Washington, DC - Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released a statement following the Senate’s passage of the Congressional Accountability Act of 1995 Reform Act, sweeping legislation that will overhaul the way Congress deals with sexual harassment. In December 2017, Gardner, along with a bipartisan group of his colleagues, introduced the Congressional Harassment Reform Act to begin the process of reforming how sexual harassment is dealt with in Congress. The final legislation that passed this week was a result of those negotiations that began more than a year ago. “It is about time Congress acted to reform the way sexual harassment is handled,” said Senator Gardner. “As I said last year when I first began working on this issue, sexual harassment and workplace misconduct have no place in America, and certainly have no place in the United States Congress. Taxpayers should never be on the hook for misconduct and every Member must be held personally liable for their own actions. I’m proud I was able to play a role in reforming this process and bringing more transparency and accountability to Congress.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
12.12.2018	12.12.18 Gardner Meets with China’s Ambassador to the United States Reiterates U.S. Concerns with China’s Economic, Security, and Human Rights Violations Washington, DC - Today, Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity, released the below statement following his meeting with the Ambassador of the People’s Republic of China (PRC) to the United States, Cui Tiankai: “I held a meeting today with Ambassador Cui to have an open and frank exchange on how to move forward in bilateral relations between our nations,” said Senator Gardner. “I explained to Ambassador Cui that while it has always been the preference of the United States to have cordial and constructive ties with China, a range of Chinese behavior in recent years has fallen outside of international norms and now threatens to upend the US-led liberal world order that resulted in decades of peace and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific.We discussed actions such as China’s illegal militarization of the South China Sea, China’s worsening human rights record, and discriminatory trade practices that have disadvantaged American companies and displaced American workers. I reiterated the need to resolve our two country’s economic differences in a timely manner, consistent with the principles and timeframes laid out by President Trump and President Xi at the recent G20 Summit in Argentina, which would include China taking concrete steps to address the bilateral trade imbalance and ceasing discriminatory behaviors against American companies, such as forced technology transfer, intellectual property violations, and other market access restrictions. “I also expressed to Ambassador Cui that the United States expects China to take additional steps to achieve complete, verifiable, irreversible denuclearization of North Korea, including more rigorous enforcement of multilateral sanctions against Pyongyang. I reiterated to Ambassador Cui that I welcome additional dialogue between our nations to peacefully resolve all outstanding disagreements, but Beijing must take the initiative and urgently change course. I will continue to use my position as Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations East Asia and Pacific Subcommittee to hold China accountable for its behavior.” In 2018, Gardner has chaired a series of hearings in his subcommittee focused on China, titled “The China Challenge”, which discussed economic, security, and human rights concerns. Gardner traveled to China in August of 2015 and met with a range of PRC officials, including Foreign Minister Wang Yi. In September 2015, Gardner met with President Xi Jinping in the Senate, during President Xi’s visit to the United States. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
12.11.2018	12.11.18 Bipartisan Farm Bill Passes Senate with Gardner’s Support Several Gardner-led Provisions Included in Final Legislation NOTE: View Senator Gardner’s video remarks here. Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today voted in favor of the bipartisan Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018 (Farm Bill). This legislation renews the federal government’s agricultural programs, including crop insurance, farm credit, and conservation policies. The legislation also expands trade assistance and promotion efforts, provides assistance to rural communities to expand rural broadband and addiction treatment for opioids, and renews the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP). “As a fifth generation Coloradan from a small town on the Eastern Plains where agriculture is a way of life, I know how important it is that Congress has reached a bipartisan agreement on the Farm Bill,” said Gardner. “As a result of low commodity prices, our agriculture community has been struggling for the past few years and this has had a profound impact on my own community and rural communities across the state and country. The Farm Bill provides long-term certainty to farmers and ranchers throughout Colorado and even includes provisions that will specifically help Colorado farmers and ranchers. “Several provisions I worked on include providing farmers and ranchers relief from drought, using technology to better implement dryland farming practices, providing resources to combat deadly diseases that wipe out hop fields, and making industrial hemp legal to make sure Colorado farmers are free to use their land how they see fit. All of these initiatives will help Colorado’s agriculture community and this is another example of how Congress can work together in a bipartisan manner to help the American people.” Gardner was able to secure several important provisions in the Farm Bill that will help Colorado’s agriculture community: Gardner-Bennet Amendment to strengthen drought and water conservation policy that will provide additional resources for Colorado producers having to deal with drought. Gardner amendment that authorizes research and extension grants in order to utilize data and technology for more precise management of dryland farming agriculture systems. Gardner-Bennet Amendment that combats diseases harming hop plants. HEMP Farming provision removes industrial hemp from the Controlled Substances Act, which will create jobs and get the government out of the way for Colorado’s farmers. NOTE: View Senator Gardner’s video remarks here. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
12.06.2018	12.06.18 Gardner, Tipton Introduce Crucial Orphan Hardrock Mine Cleanup Legislation Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Representative Scott Tipton (CO-3) introduced today the Good Samaritan Remediation of Orphan Hardrock Mines Act of 2018, legislation that will authorize the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to establish a pilot program that promotes the cleanup of orphan hardrock mines. Abandoned mines are environmental hazards and also present danger to unaware recreationists on federal land all across the United States, especially the western part of the country. With the number of abandoned mines estimated to be as high as 500,000, Good Samaritans are needed to take necessary actions to clean up some of these sites. The assumption of long-term liability under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA) and the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (CWA) has hindered prior cleanup of these sites. Gardner and Tipton’s legislation creates a pilot program that will allow qualifying Good Samaritans to clean up the sites without the assumption of long-term liability. “For years I have been working on legislation to allow for the cleanup of orphan mine sites by Good Samaritans,” said Senator Gardner. “Across Colorado and the West we have needed a permanent solution to the dangerous problem of abandoned mines. The opportunity to clean up the environment around these sites is crucial and this pilot program will finally allow for the long overdue process to begin. I understand changes may be necessary to get this bill across the finish line, and I look forward to working with my colleagues and stakeholders to evaluate their feedback.” “The Gold King Mine spill was a reminder felt across the Third Congressional District and State of Colorado that when it comes to cleaning up abandoned mine sites, the status quo is unacceptable. There are many Good Samaritan groups that have the technical expertise, financial ability, and desire to conduct successful remediation at abandoned mines, but they are discouraged from taking on projects due to current regulations,” said Tipton. “The Good Samaritan Remediation of Orphan Hardrock Mines Act of 2018 will set up a pilot project to allow Good Samaritans to clean up abandoned mine sites, improving water quality and providing our communities with a valuable service, all while maintaining strong permitting and environmental controls.” “I want to thank Senator Gardner and Congressman Tipton for their leadership. Abandoned mines represent the single greatest and least addressed threat to our nation’s waters. We look forward to working with anyone who wants to make our waters cleaner and our lands healthier and build strong, bipartisan support to pass Good Samaritan legislation,” said Chris Wood, President and CEO of Trout Unlimited. “Today’s thorough federal and state regulations require that land reclamation and restoration be a key component of every mining project - but that wasn’t always the case. As a result, legacy mine sites have remained abandoned for decades or centuries,” said Hal Quinn, NMA’s President and CEO. “While our industry, environmental groups and others have the expertise and desire to rehabilitate these lands, current laws are preventing environmental progress. Senator Gardner and Congressman Tipton’s legislation would change that. These bills are vital to clearing the obstacles that are impeding remediation efforts at abandoned legacy mine sites that continue to impact land and water resources. Good Samaritans should be supported in their efforts to clean up these sites without fear of incurring additional legal liability. This is common sense legislation that Congress has discussed for years. Now is the time for action.” “AEMA applauds Senator Gardner and Congressman Tipton for introducing the Good Samaritan Remediation of Orphaned Hardrock Mines Act of 2018 providing the mining industry, NGOs and others the necessary liability protection to act as true Good Samaritans to remediate historic pre-regulation abandoned mine lands,” said Executive Director Laura Skaer. “Our members are hopeful that their congressional colleagues will join them in supporting this pragmatic approach.” NOTE: Read Senator Gardner’s letters of support below Trout Unlimited National Mining Association (NMA) American Exploration & Mining Association (AEMA) Utah Mining Association (UMA) Nevada Mining Association Colorado Mining Association ###
12.06.2018	12.06.18 Gardner, Bennet Announce Major Infrastructure Grants for Colorado, Including $20 million for North I-25 Washington, DC - Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Michael Bennet (D-CO) today announced that the North Front Range Transportation & Air Quality Council has been awarded a $20 million Better Utilizing Investments to Leverage Development (BUILD) grant from the Department of Transportation (DOT) for its North I-25 Segment 6 improvement project. Additionally, the Senators announced that the Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT) will be receiving a $20 million BUILD grant for its vehicle-to-everything (V2X) project, which seeks to bolster the connectivity of transportation infrastructure through the deployment of fiber across highways in Colorado, and the City of Glenwood Springs will be receiving a $7 million BUILD grant for its project to modernize infrastructure along the City’s South Midland Avenue, including a new waterline and broadband infrastructure. “We strongly advocated to the Department of Transportation how important this infrastructure funding would be for Colorado and I-25, and I’m thrilled to announce it will be coming soon to help support these important projects,” said Senator Gardner. “As Colorado continues to grow we need to ensure our infrastructure is prepared to handle it. Going forward, I will continue to work with my colleagues and the Administration to help address infrastructure needs across our state.” “Colorado's roads require significant investment to keep pace with our state’s continuous growth,” said Senator Bennet. “This $47 million will assist with state and local efforts to modernize our state’s infrastructure. Thanks to the tireless efforts of Northern Colorado communities, this $20 million for North I-25 will build on past TIGER grants to decrease congestion in one of the state’s busiest corridors. With its $20 million grant, CDOT will be able to invest in new connectivity infrastructure as Colorado prepares for emerging vehicle technologies. Finally, this well-deserved $7 million grant will allow the City of Glenwood Springs to make significant improvements to the road and broadband infrastructure along the Roaring Fork River, enhancing the safety and quality of life for its residents.” I-25 Grant The $20 million BUILD grant will help with widening a segment of North I-25 between SH 402 and SH 56/Little Thompson Bridge through the addition of an express tolled lane in each direction. CDOT has estimated that in 2040, the I-25 Corridor will see a 60 percent increase in daily vehicle traffic. Work on the issue View here Gardner/Bennet letter to DOT regarding North I-25 View here Gardner/Bennet letter to DOT regarding V2X View here Gardner letter to DOT regarding the Sound Midland reconstruction and rural broadband project ###
12.06.2018	12.06.18 Gardner Awarded by Major Science Organization for Record of Advancing Science Policy Washington, DC - Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) has been awarded by the American Geophysical Union(AGU) their prestigious honor, the Presidential Citation, for his work on science policy. The AGU is an international non-profit with membership stemming across the globe with 60,000 members in 137 countries working on an array of geophysical endeavors from climate change and natural hazards to space and planetary systems. “It is a true honor to receive the American Geophysical Union’s Presidential Citation for my bipartisan work on science policy,” said Gardner. “Throughout my time in Congress, I have worked with colleagues on both sides of the aisle to advance important science-related policy initiatives, including landmark legislation with Senator Peters – The American Innovation and Competitiveness Act. Solutions for our most serious issues, such as climate change, will require bipartisan action and resolve, and I look forward to continuing to work with the American Geophysical Union to tackle and promote research on issues like climate change, natural hazards, and space. I thank the leadership and their 60,000 members across the globe for this great honor.” “Senators Gary Peters and Cory Gardner were selected for their bipartisan efforts to pass the American Innovation and Competitiveness Act of 2017,” said the AGU. “The legislation strengthens our nation’s STEM education pipeline, increases the number of women and underrepresented minorities within STEM fields, and sets robust authorization levels for the National Science Foundation, while avoiding congressional interference in the allocation to NSF’s directorates, including Geosciences. During such politically contentious times as these, when progress is dead-locked by deep divisions, the bipartisan approach taken to pass this important legislation is notable.” This year, The American Geophysical Union’s Presidential Citation was awarded to both Senators Gardner and Gary Peters (D-MI) for their bipartisan work together on science policy. Past award winners include, Senator Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI), Senator Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), Senator Olympia Snowe (R-ME), and several world renowned scientists. This award was also acknowledged by the University Corporation for Atmospheric Research (UCAR) which is headquartered in Colorado, who congratulated both Senator’s for winning the AGU award for their bipartisan work in support of science. Gardner’s record on science: Gardner has long been recognized a leader in his party on science and federal research policy. He has fought for legislation reducing emissions through clean energy policies and technologies. Gardner received the Consortium of Social Science Associations’ Distinguished Service Award. He has been a leader on legislation to continue energy savings performance contracts that have resulted in less energy consumption and over $12 billion in savings over the past two decades for the federal government. He provided the keynote address at the annual ARPA-E convention, where he emphasized the importance of bipartisanship and common ground in science policy. He was an honorary speaker at the National Science Foundation’s annual dinner last year where Director Córdova recognized his and Sen. Peters’ work on the American Innovation and Competitiveness Act. NOTE: View Gardner’s remarks on receiving the AGU award here. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
12.05.2018	12.05.18 Gardner, Markey Comprehensive Asia Policy Measure Passes Senate Washington, DC - The Senate passed S.2736, the Asia Reassurance Initiative Act of 2018 (ARIA) on Tuesday. This legislation, authored by Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Ed Markey (D-MA), Chairman and Ranking Member of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy along with Senators Marco Rubio (R-FL) and Ben Cardin (D-MD), serves as a generational policy framework to enhance U.S. leadership in the Indo-Pacific region and to demonstrate a commitment to a free and open Indo-Pacific and the rules-based international order. In the 115th Congress, Gardner and Markey held five hearings in their Subcommittee to inform ARIA. The hearing series, titled, “American Leadership in the Asia-Pacific,” included hearings on security challenges, economic opportunities, promoting human rights and the rule of law, U.S.-China relations,and Administration views. “We’ve been working on ARIA, major bipartisan legislation, for nearly three years and it passed the Senate on Tuesday,” said Senator Gardner. “I urge swift action in the House of Representatives to send this legislation to the President’s desk to be signed into law. ARIA provides the US a whole-of-government, long-term strategy in Asia that advances American national security interests, promotes American businesses and creates jobs through trade opportunities, and projects American values of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. The United States has always been, and will always remain, a Pacific power, and this legislation ensures that the United States government will speak in one voice to reassure our allies and to deter our adversaries in the Indo-Pacific region.” “The rules-based international order is absolutely fundamental to global peace and security,” said Senator Markey. “But Asia, arguably the most consequential region for the United States, faces critical challenges — such as nonproliferation, human rights, and respect for democratic values — and needs the resources to match that importance. This legislation would do important work to address challenges in the Indo-Pacific by authorizing much-needed funds for the Department of State and USAID, including to promote democracy, and to strengthen civil society, the rule of law, transparency, and accountability. It would strengthen alliances and partnerships, promote resource conservation, pursue effective arms control and nonproliferation policies, commit the U.S. government to the full implementation of sanctions on North Korea and its enablers, and help ensure U.S. leadership in the region continues. I thank Senator Gardner for his partnership on this timely and important legislation.” Read more on ARIA legislation here. ###
12.04.2018	12.04.18 Gardner, Jones Introduce Legislation to Ensure Veterans are Repaid their Full GI Benefits Washington, DC- Today, Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Doug Jones (D-AL) will introduce the Fix Immediately Outstanding Underpayments (IOUs) for Student Veterans Act, legislation that will force the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to pay student veterans money they are entitled to, but did not receive because of the VA’s own error. When the VA failed to implement the Harry W. Colmery Veterans Educational Assistance Act of 2017, many student veterans did not receive the full benefits they are entitled to. Gardner sent a letter to VA Secretary Wilkie regarding the issue on October 29, 2018 demanding the VA fix the situation, but since that time the VA has sent mixed signals about their actual plan to provide retroactive payments to underpaid students. The Gardner-Jones legislation will set up a commission at the VA to ensure all monthly stipends are audited, and force the VA to pay back students who were underpaid. Additionally this legislation will ensure the VA does not take back money from students they overpaid through their error. “The VA let these veterans down and this cannot be tolerated,” said Gardner. “First, the VA made a mistake and did not properly pay student veterans the money they are entitled to; and now the VA is failing in their responsibility again by not providing a plan to pay those students back quickly. Most problems Congress addresses are complicated and do not have one ‘right’ answer. This is not one of those issues. To me, it’s pretty clear what the right thing to do is: Congress must act to ensure our student veterans receive every penny they are entitled to.” “When young men and women step up to serve our country in uniform, we make a solemn promise to have their backs when they come home,” said Jones. “We commit to provide them the tools needed to re-enter civilian life and to earn an education that will enable them to serve our communities in new ways. When I heard that thousands of veterans in Alabama and across the country were being underpaid – or not paid at all – for their GI Bill benefits and that the VA might not make them whole, I was appalled. While I’m glad the VA has since begun to reverse course, action from Congress is needed to make sure that these veterans receive what they’re owed.” ###
11.29.2018	11.29.18 Gardner, Bennet Introduce Cybersecurity Legislation to Protect Energy Grid Washington, DC- U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Michael Bennet (D-CO) this week introduced two pieces of legislation to protect the country’s energy grid from cyber-attacks. The Enhancing State Energy Security Planning and Emergency Preparedness Act received a hearing today in the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources and Senator Gardner spoke about its importance. You can watch his remarks here. “Colorado and states across the country need to secure our energy grids and be better prepared against cyber-attacks that threaten our critical infrastructure,” said Gardner. “I’ve worked with Senator Bennet on these bipartisan pieces of legislation because we both know the risk cyber-attacks pose to our country and the need for leadership on these issues. This legislation will help shore up our electric grid’s vulnerabilities. I look forward to working with my colleagues to gather more bipartisan support and see these bills signed into law.” “We have our work cut out for us to protect the electric grid across rural and urban America, and these bills are a good starting point,” said Bennet. “We’ve worked with Coloradans and national energy organizations to ensure the legislation provides the technical assistance they need to safeguard their communities from cyberattacks.” Enhancing State Energy Security Planning and Emergency Preparedness Act This bill authorizes the Department of Energy (DOE) to provide financial assistance to states to develop or revise a State Energy Security Plan. The bill outlines the contents of a State Security Plan, including the need for coordination and joint exercises with industry and federal stakeholders. It authorizes DOE $90 million annually for Fiscal Years 2018 – 2022 to offer financial and technical assistance to states as they develop and update their plans. A State Energy Security Plan will assess a state’s existing circumstances and propose methods to strengthen the ability of a state to: Secure the energy infrastructure of the State against all physical and cybersecurity threats; Mitigate the risk of energy supply disruptions to the state and enhance response to, and recovery from energy disruptions; and Ensure the state has a reliable, secure, and resilient energy infrastructure. Enhancing Grid Security through Public-Private Partnerships Act This legislation would authorize the Department of Energy (DOE) to provide physical and cyber security assistance to electric utilities where the Secretary has substantial concerns and electric utilities with fewer available resources due to size or region, and submit a report addressing physical and cyber security vulnerabilities in electricity distribution systems. Support from DOE would include providing tools for self-assessment, assisting with threat assessment and training, and increasing the sharing of best practices and data collection. Building on Cybersecurity Progress this Year In June, Bennet led an amendment with Gardner and Senator Tammy Duckworth (D-IL)—the Energy Jobs for Our Heroes Act to help veterans prepare for careers in cybersecurity and clean energy—and secured it in the energy and water spending bill that was signed into law. In Bennet’s capacity as a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, he secured a cyber and grid security bill, also supported by Gardner, in the 2018 Senate Farm Bill, to ensure cybersecurity and grid improvement projects are eligible for USDA Rural Utility Service loans. Stakeholder Support Colorado “By making it easier for public utilities and private sector organizations to work together to secure our nation’s grid, and providing funding to use the latest technology in the space, these bills will not only enhance the security of information technology (IT) networks supporting the electrical grid, but also the security of Industrial Control Systems, also referred to as Operational Technology (OT) networks,” said Jim Orahood, Vice President of Ampex. “These bills are necessary to allow for a strong electric utility infrastructure, while building a desperately needed partnership between government and industry.” “All critical infrastructure segments—financial, healthcare, transportation, etc.—are dependent on the electrical grid,” said Vance Brown, CEO of National Cybersecurity Center. “Considering the facts that the US electrical grid is vulnerable and has already been attacked, and it is owned and operated by multiple entities, it therefore makes sense that coordinated efforts be established to safeguard our way of life. We are thankful for Senators Bennet and Gardner for putting forth legislation to address this critical issue and help fund initiatives which we believe will make a difference.” “Senate Bill 5240 provides much needed assistance to electrical utilities that lack the tools, capabilities and training resources for conducting their own self-assessments to properly mitigate cybersecurity threats,” said Taylor Vance of the Cyber Institute. “Sharing of industry proven best practices, while collectively advancing the cybersecurity capabilities of all sizes of electric utilities, will especially unify and align the industry towards a more resilient infrastructure.” National “The National Association of State Energy Officials (NASEO), representing all the state energy offices in the United States supports the Enhancing State Energy Security Planning Bill. We applaud Senator Gardner and Senator Bennet for introducing the bill and we encourage the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee to approve the bill. “Rapid Senate action and final passage of a bill after differences are resolved with HR 3050 would strengthen our country’s energy security, enhance cyber security and improve energy emergency preparedness and response.”– Statement from the National Association of State Energy Officials ###
11.29.2018	11.29.18 Gardner Holds Bipartisan Press Conference to Rally Support for the Land and Water Conservation Fund Washington, DC- Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) held a press conference today with other Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF) champions in the House and Senate to call for the reauthorization and full funding of America’s most important conservation program before the end of the year. Gardner has been a leader on the bipartisan effort in Congress to fully fund and permanently reauthorize the LWCF and will continue to fight to save this vital conservation program. To view Gardner’s remarks, click on the photo above or here. Remarks as prepared for delivery: Thank you, thanks to all of you for being out here today and I will note the westerners are not wearing coats right here. This is a warm day so thank you very much for the opportunity to be here and our effort today is simply this. We are trying to make the lame duck a little less lame and to make sure that we get some productivity on LWCF, moving it forward. If you look at the great bipartisan support that we have for LWCF, the House of Representatives, the United States Senate, Republicans and Democrats coming together to reauthorize, fully fund the Land and Water Conservation program. One of the most important programs, the most important in my mind, conservation program this country has. The crown jewel of our conservation program efforts, at no cost to the taxpayer. We are proud of our forests, we are proud of our National Parks, we are proud of our National Monuments, we are proud of our public lands, and we are proud of the opportunity this Congress has to prove to the American people that we will stand up and fight for LWCF. We will stand up and fight for our public lands, we will stand up and fight for the people of Colorado, and Montana, and Pennsylvania, and North Carolina, and Washington, and across this country to make sure that we are doing everything we can to fight for the best of our public ideas, which is our public lands. It was 1893 when Katharine Lee Bates climbed up Pikes Peak. Katharine Lee Bates climbed up Pikes Peak and looked around, and she wrote that famous line, “purple mountain majesties.” It’s because of funds and programs like the Land and Water Conservation Fund that we have been able to preserve those incredible purple mountain majesties, the peaks that we love, the forest lands that we publicly own together. The opportunities to keep them together for public use, public enjoyment, through the Land and Water Conservation Fund. There was a great story in the Denver Post, just a couple of days ago, that talked about the thousands and thousands of acres are inaccessible, held by the public, but inaccessible to the public, and programs like the Land and Water Conservation fund can be used to make sure that we have access to those great programs. So it’s an honor to be here, in the bipartisan delegation of Republicans, Senators, Democrats, House Members. The opportunities to make sure that we get this program done before the end of the year. This is what we are going to do, we are going to make this happen, and together, we can all be proud of the fact that we stood up for, we fought for, we saved the Land and Water Conservation Fund. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
11.28.2018	11.28.18 Gardner, Bennet, Bipartisan Group of Senators Press for Extension of Secure Rural Schools Program Washington, DC- U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO), Michael Bennet (D-CO), and a group of bipartisan Senators today sent a letter to Senate leadership calling for the reauthorization of the Secure Rural Schools (SRS) program in any end-of-year legislation. “Congress has an obligation to ensure counties with swaths of tax-exempt forestlands can adequately provide essential services for their residents. Without the certainty of these critical safety-net payments, schools, libraries, and jails are closing,” wrote the Senators. “Schools that remain open will see a reduction of teachers. Roads go unpaved and become unsafe. Mental and physical health services are scaled back or even ended. Fewer and fewer law enforcement officers are forced to patrol larger and larger areas.” NOTE: View letter here. The full text of the letter is below: Dear Majority Leader McConnell and Minority Leader Schumer: We strongly urge the inclusion of at least a one-year reauthorization of the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act (SRS), which enjoys tremendous bipartisan support, in any end-of-the-year legislation. Historically, the federal government shared with county governments 25 percent of timber harvest revenues from federal Forest Service lands and 50 percent of timber harvest revenues from federal Oregon and California Grant Lands managed by the Bureau of Land Management (BLM). These payments constituted a significant source of funding for rural, forested counties. However, due to declining timber sales, Congress first passed SRS in 2000 to provide a measure of compensation for counties containing tracts of federally owned forestlands that is tax-exempt. Over the last nearly two decades, SRS has been a critical lifeline for over 775 counties in over 40 states across the country by helping fund more than 4,400 schools, road maintenance, law enforcement, and search and rescue operations. However, the most recent SRS reauthorization expired at the end of the last fiscal year, which means the last authorized payments to counties will go to participating states and counties in early calendar year 2019. Congress has an obligation to ensure counties with swaths of tax-exempt forestlands can adequately provide essential services for their residents. Without the certainty of these critical safety-net payments, schools, libraries, and jails are closing. Schools that remain open will see a reduction of teachers. Roads go unpaved and become unsafe. Mental and physical health services are scaled back or even ended. Fewer and fewer law enforcement officers are forced to patrol larger and larger areas. As we work to establish a permanent county payments solution, diversify rural economies, improve forest management and forest health, strengthen historic forest revenue sharing with local governments, and ensure that our forests provide a range of values such as clean water, jobs, and wood fiber for local economies, a short-term reauthorization of at least one year is critical to provide fiscal certainty for forested counties. In the interest of working together in a bipartisan way to support local rural communities, we ask that you include a reauthorization of Secure Rural schools in any end-of-the-year package. We appreciate your assistance with this matter. Sincerely, ###
11.27.2018	11.27.18 Gardner, Bipartisan Group of Senators Introduced Legislation to Help Improve Veterans’ Health Care Washington, DC- U.S. Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), along with Senators Joni Ernst (R-IA), Angus King (I-ME), and Martin Heinrich (D-NM) introduced legislation Monday to help improve veterans’ health care by increasing collaboration among federal agencies and authorizing the Department of Energy (DOE) to develop technologies that solve complex data challenges. “This legislation will help provide world class care to our veterans by leveraging cutting-edge technologies at our National Labs,” said Senator Gardner. “The Department of Veterans Affairs and our National Labs are already collaborating successfully to benefit our veterans and I’m proud to lead this bipartisan effort with my colleagues to make sure this work continues.” “The VA and DOE have a good partnership when it comes to research and development; and, with the bipartisan Department of Energy Veterans’ Health Initiative Act, we will see greater collaboration between the two agencies to solve complex data challenges and advance veterans’ health care,” said Senator Ernst. “America’s veterans have made immense sacrifices for our nation. Through their service they have earned not only our eternal gratitude, but also the best support that we can possibly provide,” said Senator King. “In order to live up to our duty, we must strive to improve the care they receive, taking steps like utilizing cutting-edge technology and increasing communication between government agencies. By improving our overall knowledge of the healthcare challenges facing our veterans, we can improve the quality of care they receive.” “We need to do everything we can to improve health care for our veterans,” said Senator Heinrich. “This is a great example of how our Department of Energy national laboratories like Los Alamos and Sandia can put their high performing computing capabilities to practical use solving complex, big data challenges. I’m hopeful that by using the national labs’ advanced data analytics, this innovative program will identify patterns in the VA’s data and help improve outcomes for significant veterans’ health care challenges like suicide prevention.” Background: The Department of Energy Veterans’ Health Initiative Act is a companion bill to H.R. 6398 which passed the House unanimously on September 25, 2018. This legislation will build on the current interagency collaborative efforts—like the Million Veterans Program Computational Health Analytics of Medical Precision to Improve Outcomes initiative—by authorizing a program within the DOE to develop technologies to help solve complex data challenges by analyzing data sets from federal agencies, higher education institutions, non-profits and the private industry. In addition, this bill authorizes a DOE research program to spur development to accommodate for large data sets. NOTE: The full legislation is available here. ###
11.26.2018	11.26.18 Gardner Statement on Russian Aggression Toward Ukraine Washington, DC- Today, Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the below statement in response to Russian attacks on Ukrainian naval ships in the Sea of Azov. “Russia’s illegal and unprovoked aggression toward Ukraine cannot be tolerated and demands a serious response by the United States and a community of nations,” said Senator Gardner. “I urge the Administration to urgently outline a series of diplomatic, economic, and defense posture measures to deter the Kremlin, such as additional deployments of US and NATO assets in the European theater, sanctions against senior Russian officials and their families, and deep cuts to Russian diplomatic presence in the United States. I also renew my call on the State Department to designate Russia a state sponsor of terrorism under U.S. law. Putin’s global campaign to test our resolve and undermine the United States and our allies cannot go unanswered.” Senator Gardner has been an outspoken critic of Russia and President Putin. He is the author of S. 2780, a bill to require a determination on designation of the Russian Federation as a state sponsor of terrorism. Senator Gardner is a member of the Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe, also known as the Helsinki Commission. The Helsinki Commission consists of 21 Commissioners, 18 from the United States Congress and one each from the Departments of State, Defense, and Commerce. Senator Gardner is also a member of the Senate NATO Observer Group, which has an expanded mission to closely monitor and inform Senators outside of national security committees about defense spending commitments of Alliance members, the process of upgrading military capabilities, the Alliance’s counter-terrorism capability, NATO enlargement and the ability of NATO member states to address non-conventional warfare. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
11.21.2018	11.21.18 Senator Gardner Gives Thanks Washington, DC- Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the following statement celebrating Thanksgiving: “Thanksgiving is a time to reflect on the many blessings bestowed upon our great nation and with a grateful heart give thanks to God,” said Senator Gardner. “As we spend time with family and friends it is important to honor the men and women in uniform who defend our freedoms and sacrifice so much for this country who will not be home with their families this Thanksgiving. We are all fortunate to live in a democratic nation where we are free and have the right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. I am grateful to serve the incredible people of Colorado and my family and I wish everyone across the state and the country a happy Thanksgiving.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
11.20.2018	11.20.18 Gardner, Cardin Firmly Against Russian Leadership of Interpol Washington, DC- Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Ben Cardin (D-MD), both members of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and Commissioners for the Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe, also known as the Helsinki Commission, today released the following statement firmly opposing the candidacy of Russian national Alexander Prokopchuk to serve as the President of International Criminal Police Organization, or Interpol. “It is unconscionable that a representative of the Russian state would be named as the next President of the world’s international police organization,” the Senators said. “The Kremlin has ordered and executed extrajudicial killings abroad and has used chemical weapons on the soil of a NATO ally. To allow a tool of Vladimir Putin to run Interpol would undermine international law and invite further Russian abuses. We call on the Administration to take every appropriate step to prevent the Kremlin from taking over this important organization and renew our call for the State Department to designate Russia as a state sponsor of terrorism under U.S. law.” Senator Gardner has been an outspoken critic of Russia and President Putin. He is the author of S. 2780, a bill to require a determination on designation of the Russian Federation as a state sponsor of terrorism. Senator Gardner is a member of the Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe, also known as the Helsinki Commission. The Helsinki Commission consists of 21 Commissioners, 18 from the United States Congress and one each from the Departments of State, Defense, and Commerce. Senator Gardner is also a member of the Senate NATO Observer Group, which has an expanded mission to closely monitor and inform Senators outside of national security committees about defense spending commitments of Alliance members, the process of upgrading military capabilities, the Alliance’s counter-terrorism capability, NATO enlargement and the ability of NATO member states to address non-conventional warfare. Senator Cardin has been a longstanding critic of Russia’s malign influence in Europe and U.S. elections. He authored the Sergei Magnitsky Rule of Law Accountability Act, which imposes landmark sanctions against human rights violators within the Russian government, as well as the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA), which imposes sanctions on Russia, Iran, and North Korea. Senator Cardin commissioned a Senate Foreign Relations Committee Democratic staff report in January 2018 detailing Russian president Vladimir Putin’s nearly two decades-long assault on democratic institutions, universal values, and the rule of law across Europe and in his own country. As co-chair of the Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe, Senator Cardin continues to raise the alarm surrounding Russia interference in U.S. elections and Russia’s tactics of imprisoning journalists, whistleblowers, and human rights activists as a means of suppressing media freedom and political opposition. ###
11.16.2018	11.16.18 Gardner, Bennet Announce $4.5 Million in Energy Innovation Grants for Colorado Universities Washington, DC- Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Michael Bennet (D-CO) today announced the U.S. Department of Energy’s Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy (ARPA-E) awarded Colorado School of Mines a $2,047,676 grant and University of Colorado Boulder a $2,500,000 grant to “fund potentially disruptive technology” in the energy sector. According to the Department of Energy, “ARPA-E advances high-potential, high-impact energy technologies that are too high-risk for private-sector investment. ARPA-E awardees are unique because they are developing entirely new ways for Americans to get, store, and use energy.” “The Colorado School of Mines and the University of Colorado Boulder are leading the way in innovative energy technologies and I’m thrilled they will each receive over $2 million to continue their cutting-edge research,” said Senator Gardner. “I have always advocated for continued funding of our research and development programs and will continue to do so because of the enormous benefit these programs bring to Colorado.” “Congratulations to the Colorado School of Mines and University of Colorado Boulder on receiving ARPA-E funding for their innovative research,” said Senator Bennet. “As we continue to unlock the promise of clean energy, I’ll work to ensure Colorado remains a leader in the development of new cost-effective technologies.” Gardner has continually fought for funding for ARPA-E. In May of 2017, Gardner sent a letter to President Trump urging him to continue to fund the Department of Energy’s research programs, including ARPA-E. Earlier this year, Bennet delivered remarks at the Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy (ARPA-E) Energy Innovation Summit, opposing President Trump’s budget proposal to eliminate ARPA-E, and outlining key efforts to develop the United States—and Colorado—as a global energy leader. ###
11.02.2018	11.02.18 Gardner, Bennet Call for Additional Funding to Ensure Effective Responses to Massive Wildfires Washington, D.C. – Colorado U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R) and Michael Bennet (D) today joined a bipartisan group of colleagues in requesting funding to modernize firefighting assets so the U.S. Forest Service can respond in a more efficient and cost-effective manner to devastating wildfires. The fire season in Colorado this past year, which stretched resources thin, demonstrates the need to invest further in these firefighting assets. The senators, in letters to Senate Committee on Appropriations leadership and the U.S. Forest Service, highlighted the need for a modern, highly-capable large air tanker and water-scooper fleet—proven to be one of the most effective immediate responses to limit the expansion of wildfires into uncontrollable mega-fires. The available aircraft currently flying this mission are retired ex-military/ex-civil aircraft, repurposed for air tanker operations and flown by small private contract firms; therefore they are outdated and limited in number. “The intensity and duration of the past successive fire seasons confirm the reality that the wildfire suppression workload has grown in severity and complexity due to hotter, longer burning seasons and the expanding wildland-urban interface,” the lawmakers wrote. “These factors will only worsen future wildfire disasters so it is time that Congress and the executive branch proactively upgrade firefighting assets in order to protect the lives and property in communities facing these massive wildfires.” In March, Gardner and Bennet helped lead the effort to pass into law a long-term, bipartisan funding solution to stabilize the Forest Service budget. The fire fix, taking effect in 2020, ends the backwards practice of “fire borrowing,” allowing the agency to restart many of the fire prevention projects delayed by uncertain funding from longer, hotter fire years. To ensure the Forest Service can most effectively fight wildfires, the senators noted that Congress must also immediately invest in modern firefighting assets. The letter to U.S. Forest Service Chief Vicki Christiansen is available HERE. The letter to Senate Committee on Appropriations Chairman Richard Shelby and Ranking Member Patrick Leahy and Subcommittee on Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Chairman Lisa Murkowski and Ranking Member Tom Udall is available HERE. ###
11.02.2018	11.02.18 Gardner Applauds Jobs Growth and Wage Increase for Month of October Washington, DC- Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement regarding the Bureau of Labor Statistics’ announcement that wages are rising the highest in nearly a decade and that the economy added over 250,000 jobs the last month. “Wages are rising in Colorado and new jobs are being created because of sustained, strong economic growth,”said Senator Gardner. “This great news proves that when we advance policies that reduce taxes on hard working families and make it easier for businesses to hire new employees our state will keep moving in the right direction.” Stats on Growing Economy -Wages have increased by nearly 3.1 percent, the highest in nearly a decade, beating expectations -The economy added 250,000 jobs in October, also beating expectations -The unemployment rate of 3.7 percent is the lowest since December 1969 -The labor force participation rate ticked up to 62.9% from 62.7% ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
10.31.2018	10.31.18 Gardner Urges Suspension of Talks for U.S.- Saudi Civil Nuclear Pact After Jamal Khashoggi’s Murder Washington, DC- U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO), Marco Rubio (R-FL), Todd Young (R-IN), Rand Paul (R-KY) and Dean Heller (R-NV) sent a letter today urging President Trump to suspend negotiations for a U.S.-Saudi civil nuclear agreement after the murder of Jamal Khashoggi, a Saudi journalist and Washington Post columnist. Earlier this month, Senator Gardner joined Senate colleagues in urging President Trump to launch an investigation and sanctions determination regarding Khashoggi’s disappearance pursuant to the Global Magnitsky Human Rights Accountability Act. NOTE: View letter here. The full text of the letter is below: Dear Mr. President: We write to request that your Administration suspend talks related to a potential civil nuclear cooperation agreement between the United States and Saudi Arabia. Prior to the murder of Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi at the Saudi Consulate in Istanbul, Turkey, we already held serious reservations about negotiations for such an agreement. In particular, we remain concerned that the Saudi Government has refused, for many years, to consider any agreement that includes so-called “Gold Standard” requirements against pursuing technologies to enrich uranium and reprocess plutonium-laden spent nuclear fuel. As you know, the 2009 civil nuclear cooperation agreement between the United States and the United Arab Emirates created this “Gold Standard” when the Emirates committed not to pursue uranium enrichment, plutonium reprocessing, and other nuclear fuel-making activities that can bring a nation within weeks of producing a nuclear weapon. Given your Administration’s ongoing efforts to press the Iranian regime—in the words of Secretary of State Mike Pompeo—to “stop enrichment and never pursue plutonium reprocessing,” we have long believed that it is therefore critical and necessary for the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia to accept and uphold this “Gold Standard” for responsible nuclear behavior. The ongoing revelations about the murder of Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi, as well as certain Saudi actions related to Yemen and Lebanon, have raised further serious concerns about the transparency, accountability, and judgment of current decisionmakers in Saudi Arabia. In turn, these serious questions have solidified our reservations about pursuing a potential U.S. civil nuclear agreement with Saudi Arabia, and increased our willingness to advance, consistent with procedures in the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, a joint resolution of disapproval to block any such agreement at this time. We therefore request that you suspend any related negotiations for a U.S.-Saudi civil nuclear agreement for the foreseeable future. We thank you for your attention, and stand ready to engage with your Administration on this matter. ###
10.24.2018	10.24.18 Gardner Backed Opioid Legislation Signed Into Law Washington, DC –Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement regarding President Trump signing the bipartisan opioid package into law on Wednesday. “The opioid epidemic has hurt so many communities, individuals, and families across Colorado,” said Senator Gardner. “The bipartisan legislation signed into law by the president is an important step in our continued work to combat this crisis. One piece of legislation isn’t going to stop the epidemic, but it’s going to make a positive difference in the lives being harmed. We must remain focused on advancing policies that prevent drug abuse, expand treatment, and support families.”Included in the package was Senator Gardner’s legislation, the Alternatives to Opioids in the Emergency Department Act. This legislation establishes a three year demonstration program to test alternative pain management tools to reduce the amount of opioids being used in an emergency setting, and other acute care settings. Following the demonstration program, this legislation requires a report to congress with recommendations to establish pain management protocols to be spread across the country. Additional Background:Reduce Use and Supply Includes the STOP Act to help stop illegal drugs at the border, including stopping the shipment of synthetic opioids Improves sharing of Prescription Drug Monitoring Programs data between states Encourage Recovery Supports states with competitive grants to address substance use disorders Improves access to health professionals, long-distance care, and recovery housing services Support Caregivers and Families Improves plans of safe care and support for substance-exposed babies and their mothers Increases family-focused treatment and recovery Helps youth with substance use disorders enter recovery Provides supports in schools and early childhood education programs Drive Innovation and Long-Term Solutions Spurs development of new non-addictive painkillers Addresses economic and workforce impacts of the opioid crisis Ensures parity in mental health and substance use disorder benefits ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
10.15.2018	10.15.18 Gardner Authors Bill to Allow Employers to Contribute Tax Free to Employees’ Student Loans Washington, DC- In a legislative effort to assist individuals with student loans, Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) recently introduced the Student Loan Repayment Acceleration Act. This legislation allows employers to make tax-free contributions of up to $10,000 toward employees’ student loans per year. It is based off of the current format many employers use to contribute to employees’ 401k plans. “Student loan debt makes it harder and harder for graduates to get ahead,” said Senator Gardner. “I’m hopeful my legislation can make it a easier to pay off loans by allowing employers to contribute to their employees’ student loans like many do for 401k plans. Every little bit helps and this can be a model for further policies to deal with the growing problem of student loan debt.” According to the National Association of Realtors, about 45 million Americans have student loans to repay. The average student has around $30,000 in debt, with a fifth owing more than $100,000. Summary of Student Loan Repayment Acceleration Act-Allows employers to make contributions to an employee’s existing student loan debt up to $10,000 per year free from payroll, income, and federal unemployment tax. -Allows employers to choose from a variety of ways to structure such payments; for instance, the employer could simply make a payment or it could require the employee make a payment that the employer “matches” (similar to 401k matches). -Would amend the Internal Revenue Code to exclude an employee’s contributions toward their existing student loan debt from taxable wages payments so long as the contributions do not exceed the $10,000 cap. -Allows sole-proprietors, employed and self-employed individuals to claim student loan debt as an above the line deduction up to $10,000 per year. Denies sole-proprietors, employed and self-employed individuals from claiming double benefits of the student loan interest deduction. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
10.12.2018	10.12.18 Gardner, Gillibrand Introduce Bipartisan Bill to Permanently Reauthorize and Fund Victim Compensation Fund for 9/11 Heroes and Their Families Washington, DC– Following the recent announcement that the September 11th Victim Compensation Fund (VCF) could run out of funding before its expiration date in 2020, and with cancer rates among 9/11 first responders starting to increase 17 years after the 9/11 attacks, U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), U.S. Senate Minority Leader Charles E. Schumer (D-NY), and U.S. Representatives Carolyn B. Maloney (D-NY-12), Jerrold Nadler (D-NY-10), and Peter T. King (R-NY-2) today announced bipartisan legislation to permanently reauthorize and fund the VCF. The bipartisan legislation would ensure that 9/11 first responders who become sick with certified 9/11 illnesses in the future would be covered by the VCF program. “I’ll never forget the images and video of brave women and men running into danger to help save thousands of people,” said Senator Gardner. “These heroes now live across the country, including in Colorado, and have sacrificed so much. After all they have done for us, our nation cannot and will not turn its back on them. This bipartisan group will work relentlessly to advance our legislation to provide them the care they deserve.” “Thousands of firefighters, police officers, federal and local law enforcement officers, medical workers, construction workers, and other heroes risked their lives for us after we were attacked on 9/11. They didn’t back down when we needed them, and now, as cancer rates in the 9/11 first responder community are higher than ever and the 9/11 death toll continues to rise 17 years after the attacks, Congress needs to stand up for them,” said Senator Gillibrand. “We simply cannot turn our backs on our 9/11 heroes and let the Victim Compensation Fund expire. I urge my colleagues to do the right thing, protect our heroes and their families, and pass this bipartisan bill to permanently reauthorize the VCF now. Anything less would send a cruel message to our heroes and their families that Congress is shrugging their shoulders at their suffering. We can and must pass this vitally important bipartisan bill now.” The terrorist attack on September 11, 2001 killed 2,997 and injured thousands in New York City, Shanksville, PA and the Pentagon. In the years since, tens of thousands more men and women, including first responders, relief workers, and local residents, have lost their lives or gotten sick as a result of exposure to a toxic cocktail of burning chemicals, pulverized drywall and powdered cement. Scientists have found numerous cancers can lie dormant for more than 20 years before turning deadly. This year alone, the number of cancer certifications by the World Trade Center Health Program reached over 10,000 cases. The 20 year milestone is soon approaching and these latent diseases are continuing to manifest. New claims will continue to rise as we reach the expiration of the current Victim Compensation Fund (VCF) in 2020. Already, the VCF has approved over 19,204 claims. S. 3591, led in the Senate by Senators Gardner, Gillibrand, and Chuck Schumer has 15 additional cosponsors: Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Michael Bennet (D-CO), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Cory Booker (D-NJ), Robert Casey (D-PA), Christopher Coons (D-DE), Tammy Duckworth (D-IL), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Edward Markey (D-MA), Robert Menendez (D-NJ), Christopher Murphy (D-CT), Patty Murray (D-WA), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), and Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI). H.R. 7062, is led in the House of Representatives by Representatives Maloney, Nadler, and King, and has 36 additional cosponsors, including: Thomas Suozzi (D-NY-03), Ted Poe (R-TX-02), Kathleen Rice (D-NY-04), Chris Smith (R-NJ-04), Josh Gottheimer (D-NJ-05), Leonard Lance (R-NJ-07), Grace Meng (D-NY-06), Tom MacArthur (R-NJ-03), Nydia Velázquez (D-NY-07), Daniel Donovan (R-NY-11), Hakeem Jeffries (D-NY-08), Claudia Tenney (R-NY-22), Adriano Espaillat (D-NY-13), Barbara Comstock (R-VA-10), Joseph Crowley (D-NY-14), José Serrano (D-NY-15), Eliot Engel (D-NY-16), Nita Lowey (D-NY-17), Paul Tonko (D-NY-20), Brian Higgins (D-NY-26), Donald Norcross (D-NJ-01), Frank Pallone (D-NJ-06), Albio Sires (D-NJ-08), Bill Pascrell (D-NJ-09), Greg Meeks (D-NY-5), Yvette Clarke (D-NY-9), Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ-12), David Price (D-NC-04), Elizabeth Esty (D-CT-05), Brendan Boyle (D-PA-13), Kristen Sinema (D-AZ-09), Grace Napolitano (D-CA-32), David Cicilline (D-RI-01), Brian Fitzpatrick (R-PA-08), Karen Bass (D-CA-37), and Frederica Wilson (D-FL-24). ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
10.11.2018	10.11.18 Gardner Signs Letter Triggering Global Magnitsky Investigation Into Disappearance of Jamal Khashoggi Washington, DC– Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) signed on to a bipartisan letter sent to President Donald TrumpWednesday by U.S. Senators Bob Corker (R-TN), Bob Menendez (D-NJ), Lindsey Graham (R-SC), and Patrick Leahy (D-VT) that triggered an investigation and Global Magnitsky sanctions determination regarding the disappearance of Jamal Khashoggi, a Saudi journalist and columnist for The Washington Post. Khashoggi has not been heard from since he entered a Saudi consulate in Istanbul last Tuesday afternoon. The letter was also signed by Senators Marco Rubio (R-FL), Ben Cardin (D-MD), John Barrasso (R-WY), Chris Murphy (D-CT), Jeff Flake (R-AZ), Tim Kaine (D-VA), Ed Markey (D-MA), Johnny Isakson (R-GA), Jeff Merkley (D-OR), Todd Young (R-IN), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), Rob Portman (R-OH), Cory Booker (D-NJ), Ron Johnson (R-WI), Chris Coons (D-DE), Jim Risch (R-ID), and Tom Udall (D-NM). The letter reads in full Dear Mr. President: The Global Magnitsky Human Rights Accountability Act requires the President, upon receipt of a request from the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations, to determine whether a foreign person is responsible for an extrajudicial killing, torture, or other gross violation of internationally recognized human rights against an individual exercising freedom of expression, and report to the Committee within 120 days with a determination and a decision on the imposition of sanctions on that foreign person or persons. The recent disappearance of Saudi journalist and Washington Post columnist Jamal Khashoggi suggests that he could be a victim of a gross violation of internationally recognized human rights, which includes “torture or cruel, inhuman, or degrading treatment or punishment, prolonged detention without charges and trial, causing the disappearance of persons by the abduction and clandestine detention of those persons, and other flagrant denial of the right to life, liberty, or the security of person.” Therefore, we request that you make a determination on the imposition of sanctions pursuant to the Global Magnitsky Human Rights Accountability Act with respect to any foreign person responsible for such a violation related to Mr. Khashoggi. Our expectation is that in making your determination you will consider any relevant information, including with respect to the highest ranking officials in the Government of Saudi Arabia. Background Under the Global Magnitsky Human Rights Accountability Act, the president, upon receipt of a letter from the chairman and ranking member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, must make a determination and is authorized to impose sanctions with respect to a foreign person responsible for extrajudicial killings, torture, or other gross violations of internationally recognized human rights violations against individuals who seek to obtain, exercise, defend, or promote human rights and freedoms, including freedom of expression. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
10.10.2018	10.10.18 Gardner Addresses Lack of Civility, Threats Against his Family at Weekly GOP Press Conference Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) calls for a return to civility in the United States at the Republican Leadership Press Conference today. NOTE: Watch video here or by clicking on the photo above Remarks as delivered: In the United States we cherish our First Amendment rights. We cherish our right to petition. We cherish our right to assemble. We cherish our right to protest and free speech. But over the past several days we’ve seen calls to kill the Supreme Court nominee. We’ve seen white powder sent to the Pentagon, to the President, and to our colleagues. We’ve seen people say that Steve Scalise was complicit in his own attempted assassination. My wife received a text message of a graphic beheading. We now have people, public officials, saying you have the right, and should be, uncivil to each other. It’s a call for incivility. You have others saying, "Michelle Obama may have said when they go low we go high, but I’m saying when they go low we kick back." This is not who we are as a country. We have our political disagreements and we should cherish the rights to express our disagreements. But when it comes to calls for violence, attempted murder, and assassinations this country has gone too far and it’s time we step back from that brink. My colleague Michael Bennet and I were sent here to work together. We have our disagreements, but we have always fought for the best of our state and I hope that every colleague here will do the same. I hope the American people can be proud of the fact that while we may disagree, we will not let incivility prevail. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
10.09.2018	10.09.18 Gardner Statement on UN Ambassador Nikki Haley Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement regarding United Nations Ambassador Nikki Haley’s announcement that she will be stepping down at the end of the year: “Because of Nikki Haley’s leadership, the United States has a powerful voice again at the United Nations,” said Senator Gardner. “She’s been an incredible partner to work closely with on carrying out the Administration’s maximum pressure doctrine on North Korea, and I’m confident that we will be able to continue to build on the strong foundation she solidified in her role as UN Ambassador.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
10.05.2018	10.05.18 Gardner Statement on Judge Kavanaugh Nomination Washington, DC - Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced on Friday that he will be voting yes on the nomination of Judge Brett Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court. Friday’s vote was a procedural vote to end debate. The final confirmation vote will likely come later this weekend. “I announced my support for Judge Kavanaugh in July, and I will be voting to approve his nomination to the Supreme Court,” said Senator Gardner. “During this confirmation process, I have supported every opportunity to ensure we have all available information before us. This included listening to hours of testimony, reading and re-reading transcripts and statements, and studying interviews of over 150 people spanning 25 years in seven FBI background investigations. No evidence was found by the FBI to corroborate the allegations made against him or to make me change the support I announced for him in July. “We live in a country where both sides should always be heard. Victimized women that come forward are brave and courageous. Every victim of abuse, assault, and violence has been through an unspeakable tragedy and we need to do a better job listening to them, ensuring support is available, and fighting to end abuse of any kind. I hope that the partisan divide we all feel today does not hinder the people that have bravely come forward.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
10.03.2018	10.03.18 Gardner’s Wildfire Drone Legislation Included in Federal Aviation Administration Reauthorization Will Deter Unauthorized Drone Use over Colorado Wildfires NOTE: View Senator Gardner’s remarks here or by clicking on the photo above. Washington, DC- Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), a member of the Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee, voted today in favor of the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018. The bill, which passed 93 to 6, aims to reauthorize federal aviation programs with airport infrastructure, improvements in safety and service for the flying public, and improves innovation in the aviation industry. This bipartisan five-year reauthorization of the Federal Aviation Administration represents the first long-term bill since 2012. It contains several Gardner-backed provisions, including his effort to make unauthorized drone use that interferes with wildfire suppression a federal felony. “This bipartisan legislation is good for Colorado’s airports and the thousands of people who fly in our state each day,”said Senator Gardner. “As wildfires hit Colorado this year, I heard directly from the men and women fighting fires and was pleased to work to include a provision to deter the idiotic behavior of unauthorized drone use over wildfires. Going forward, I will continue my efforts to support Colorado’s airports and protect our airspace.” Gardner Wildfire Provision Included in FAA BillEarlier this year, Senators Gardner and Bennet introduced the Securing Airspace for Emergency Responders (SAFER) Act of 2018, to make it a felony to fly unauthorized drones over wildfires. Congressman Tipton introduced companion legislation in the House. The measure was in response to Senator Gardner hearing firsthand from men and women fighting wildfires in Colorado about the problems drones are creating for their efforts. (Watch Senator Gardner talk about the issue at a press conference earlier this year.)Background on drone wildfire legislation Additional Gardner Provisions in FAA Bill An amendment is included cosponsored by Senator Gardner to allow Airport Improvement Program (AIP) funds to be used for the installation of Closed-Circuit Television (CCTV) equipment. This provision is aimed at providing additional options for airport security needs. An amendment included by Senator Gardner encourages FAA to continue its feasibility assessment into providing access to the 1300-1350MHz band for non-federal use. This band provides great opportunity for commercial services and considering whether it can be appropriately cleared will advance the more efficient use of federal spectrum. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
10.02.2018	10.02.18 Gardner Backed LWCF and National Parks Legislation Advance out of Energy and Natural Resources Committee Several Other Gardner Initiatives Also Advance Click here or on photo above to view remarks from hearing. Washington, DC – On Tuesday the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, which Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) serves on, advanced out of committee several pieces of legislation important to Colorado. Included in the hearing was S. 569, the Land and Water Conservation Authorization and Funding Act. This legislation, of which Senator Gardner is a cosponsor, aims to fully fund and permanently reauthorize the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF). Authorization for LWCF expired on September 30th, and Senator Gardner has been working with a bipartisan group, including Senator Bennet, to reauthorize the conservation program. “I’ve been fighting to protect the Land and Water Conservation Fund, and today was an important step for the Senate to move out of committee a bipartisan measure that permanently reauthorizes this critical program for Colorado’s public lands,” said Senator Gardner. “There is no excuse on why we can’t get this done as there is a clear bipartisan consensus in both the House and Senate on the immense benefits of this crown jewel of conservation programs.” Also passing out of committee in today’s hearing was S.3172, the Restore our Parks Act. This legislation, of which Senator Gardner is also a cosponsor, addresses the $12 billion park maintenance backlog that is preventing new investments and infrastructure improvements to parks in Colorado and across the country. This measure would establish the “National Park Service Legacy Restoration Fund” and reduce the maintenance backlog by allocating half of the existing unobligated revenues the government receives from on and offshore energy development - up to $1.3 billion per year - for the next five years. “We have to provide Colorado’s parks the funding necessary to help address the billions of dollars in deferred maintenance that the park system is currently facing,” said Senator Gardner. “The Restore our Parks Act will protect these lands by allowing for needed investments for park infrastructure and preservation projects.” Click here to view Senator Gardner speaking about the legislation on the Senate floor earlier this year and to view a list of more than $238 million in maintenance backlog at Colorado parks. Additional Gardner Backed Measures Advancing out of committee on Tuesday: S. 2870 Amache Study Act-Authored by Senator Gardner and cosponsored by Senator Bennet, this legislation would assess the historical significance of Amache, a former Japanese American relocation center in Granada, and determine the feasibility of the site becoming part of the National Park System. S.2290 Wildfire Management Technology Advancement Act of 2017- This legislation authored by Senator Gardner is a bill designed to bring firefighting agencies into the 21st century. It increases firefighter safety by requiring the Forest Service and the Department of the Interior to begin providing GPS locations for crews on wildfires and to begin using Unmanned Aircraft Systems to scout out and map wildfires in real-time. S.2876 Pike National Historic Trail Study Act-This legislation authored by Senator Bennet and cosponsored by Senator Gardner could result in the designation of explorer Zebulon Pike’s route through the American Southwest – including significant stretches in Colorado. It would direct the National Park Service to conduct a feasibility study on making it a National Historic Trail. S. 2166, Endangered Fish Recovery Programs Extension Act of 2017- This legislation authored by Senator Gardner and cosponsored by Senator Bennet maintains annual base funding for the Upper Colorado and San Juan fish recovery programs through fiscal year 2023. Requires a report on the implementation of those programs. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
09.26.2018	09.26.18 Gardner, Schatz Introduce Legislation to Improve Federal Government’s Use of Artificial Intelligence Washington, DC- Today, U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO), Brian Schatz (D-HI), Rob Portman (R-OH), and Kamala Harris (D-CA) introduced the Artificial Intelligence (AI) in Government Act, legislation that would improve the use of AI across the federal government by providing resources and directing federal agencies to include AI in data-related planning. “While C-3PO isn’t yet a reality in today’s world, artificial intelligence certainly is,” said Senator Gardner. “Our bill will bring agencies, industry, and others to the table to discuss government adoption of artificial intelligence and emerging technologies. We need a better understanding of the opportunities and challenges these technologies present for federal government use and this legislation would put us on the path to achieve that goal.” “The United States won’t have the global competitive edge in AI if our own government isn’t making the most of these technologies,” said Senator Schatz. “This bill will give the federal government the resources it needs to hire experts, do research, and work across federal agencies to use AI technologies in smart and effective ways.” “Artificial intelligence will have significant impacts for our country, economy, and society,” said Senator Portman. “Ensuring that our government has the capabilities and expertise to help navigate those impacts will be important in the coming years and decades. I’m pleased to introduce this bipartisan legislation to ensure our government understands the benefits and pitfalls of this technology as it engages in a responsible, accountable rollout of AI.”“Artificial intelligence has the potential to benefit society in ways we cannot imagine today,” said Senator Harris. “We already see its immense value in applications as diverse as diagnosing cancer to routing vehicles. The AI in Government Act gives the federal government the tools and resources it needs to build its expertise and in partnership with industry and academia. The bill will help develop the policies to ensure that society reaps the benefits of these emerging technologies, while protecting people from potential risks, such as biases in AI.” The Artificial Intelligence in Government Act does the following: · expand an office within the General Services Administration to provide technical expertise to relevant government agencies; conduct forward-looking, original research on federal AI policy; and promote U.S. competitiveness through agency and industry cooperation; · establish an advisory board to address AI policy opportunities and challenges for executive agencies; · direct the Office of Management and Budget to establish a strategy for investing and using AI as part of the federal data strategy; and · direct the Office of Personnel Management to identify skills and competencies for AI and establish a new or update an existing occupational series. ###
09.26.2018	09.26.18 Framework for New United States Policy Toward Asia Advances out of Senate Foreign Relations Committee Washington, DC- On Wednesday, September 26th, the Senate Foreign Relations Committee unanimously advanced S. 2736, the Asia Reassurance Initiative Act of 2018 (ARIA). This legislation, authored by Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Ed Markey (D-MA), Chairman and Ranking Member of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy along with Senators Marco Rubio (R-FL) and Ben Cardin (D-MD), serves as a generational policy framework to enhance U.S. leadership in the Indo-Pacific region and to demonstrate a commitment to a free and open Indo-Pacific and the rules-based international order. In the 115th Congress, Gardner and Markey held five hearings in their Subcommittee to inform ARIA. The hearing series, titled, “American Leadership in the Asia-Pacific,” included hearings on security challenges, economic opportunities, promoting human rights and the rule of law, U.S.-China relations, and Administration views. “Today’s action is an important step in getting this critical legislation signed into law,” said Senator Gardner.“ARIA provides the United States a whole-of-government, long-term strategy in Asia that advances American national security interests, promotes American businesses and creates jobs through trade opportunities, and projects American values of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. The United States has always been -- and will always remain -- a Pacific power, and today’s action proves that the U.S. government can speak with one voice to reassure our allies and to deter our adversaries in the Indo-Pacific region.” “The rules-based international order is absolutely fundamental to global peace and security,” said Senator Markey. “But Asia, arguably the most consequential region for the United States, faces critical challenges such as nonproliferation, human rights, and respect for democratic values. This legislation would do important work to address challenges in the Indo-Pacific by authorizing much-needed funds for the Department of State and USAID, including to promote democracy, and to strengthen civil society, the rule of law, transparency, and accountability. It would strengthen alliances and partnerships, promote resource conservation, pursue effective arms control and nonproliferation policies, and commit the U.S. government to the full implementation of sanctions on North Korea and its enablers. I thank Senator Gardner for his partnership on this timely and important legislation. I look forward to continuing to work with him and our partners for full Senate passage.” “I applaud the Senate Foreign Relations Committee’s passage of this important bill to create a framework for stronger U.S. policy in the Indo-Pacific region in terms of diplomacy, trade, promotion of human rights, counterterrorism programs, and other important issues,” said Senator Rubio. “With China’s increasingly aggressive rise, it is critical that the United States reaffirm our commitment to securing a free and open Indo-Pacific region through enhanced cooperation with our democratic partners.” “U.S. relations with our Asian allies, partners, and adversaries will dominate the 21st century, and we need a clear set of strategic policies to bolster our national security and economic interests, framed in the values that define who we are – democratic principles, human rights, and the rule of law. I’m pleased this legislation places such a high premium on those priorities, and also expresses support for the economic and societal rights of women and girls in the region, ” said Senator Cardin. “U.S. foreign policy is always best conducted in a bipartisan fashion, and this legislation and today’s process exemplifies that spirit. I thank my Foreign Relations Committee colleagues frothier support and look forward to the bill’s debate and passage in the Senate.” Read more on ARIA legislation here. ###
09.21.2018	09.21.18 Gardner Presents Congressional Badge of Bravery to Douglas County Detective, Daniel Brite Washington, DC - Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) presented the Congressional Badge of Bravery on Friday to Detective Daniel Brite from the Douglas County Sheriff’s Office. The Congressional Badge of Bravery is awarded to individuals who, without regard for their own safety, act extraordinarily to protect the lives of others. Detective Daniel Brite exemplified this bravery on September 2nd, 2016, when he engaged an armed and highly dangerous man threatening himself and others. With the subject’s residence being located in close proximity to a nearby middle school and elementary school, Detective Brite and his fellow officers had to act fast to protect the lives of the students preparing to discharge for the school day. Despite being severely wounded, Detective Brite continued to fight back putting the lives and well-being of others above his own. “I’m honored to have the opportunity to present Detective Brite with the Congressional Badge of Bravery today,” said Senator Gardner. “Detective Brite is a hero who acted fearlessly in the face of danger. His actions while under fire and severely injured will not be forgotten by our community and the lives he saved.” “I have spent some time thinking about what this award means to me,” said Detective Brite. “I am very grateful to be the recipient of this award. To me, it represents the fact that in this great nation, there are far more first responder supporters than naysayers. When a brother and sister fall down in this profession, there are thousands of men and women ready and willing to step over the fallen officer and continue the mission. That mission is to fight for the innocent and repel the evil. I am forever grateful that I am still able to be a part of that mission because I have a lot of fight left in me.” Read more about his bravery here. Read more about the Congressional Badge of Bravery here. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
09.21.2018	09.21.18 Gardner Discusses Cybersecurity at Colorado's Coalfire WASHINGTON, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) visited Coalfire headquarters, one of Colorado’s cybersecurity advisory providers, on Wednesday in Westminster. Senator Gardner and the Coalfire team discussed several key issues in cybersecurity including: Insights from Coalfire’s testing of voting systems/networks across 10 states, and recommended enhancements to voting processes moving forward. The Internet of Things (IoT): deploying safe IoT devices across the federal government and how public/private sector partnerships can effectively work together toward enhanced global cyber security in an IoT connected world. Coalfire shared their perspective on how best to enable consumer transparency around the security of IT products and services “Having a whole of government approach to cybersecurity has never been more important, and visits with companies like these play an important role in helping to craft cybersecurity policy in Washington,” Senator Gardner said. “I will continue to work with my colleagues in a bipartisan fashion to ensure the federal government is doing everything it can as it faces an ever-evolving threat.” “The entire Coalfire team was pleased to welcome Senator Gardner to our offices,” Coalfire CEO Tom McAndrew said. “We are very appreciative of his diligent legislative efforts around cybersecurity, among other critical initiatives, and we were pleased that he took the time to hear our thoughts on improving the end-to-end voting security process as well as secure government cloud migration strategies. We appreciated the Senator’s time and clear willingness to listen to our real-world experiences in working to mitigate these challenges.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
09.20.2018	09.20.18 Colorado Senators Announce Army to Stand up Stryker Brigade Combat Team at Fort Carson VIDEO: Colorado Senators Congratulate Fort Carson on Stryker Brigade Combat Team COLORADO – Colorado U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R) and Michael Bennet (D) today announced the Army will stand up a Stryker Brigade Combat Team at Fort Carson in Colorado Springs. Over the past year, the Senators met with Army leadership to emphasize the value of Fort Carson’s assets to national missions. “This announcement is good for Fort Carson and Colorado, and most importantly the right decision for our military,” Gardner said. “Senator Bennet and I made the case to the Army that Fort Carson’s incredible infrastructure, manpower, and support will guarantee an effective increase in the Army’s readiness and capabilities. This decision also reiterates the continued role Fort Carson will play in responding to conventional threats posed by other nations.” “This could not be a better decision for our national security, for our Army, and for Colorado,” Bennet said. “We are confident that Fort Carson’s superior infrastructure, training opportunities, and personnel will deliver a strong and capable brigade ready to meet the security challenges of today and the threats of tomorrow. This decision reinforces Fort Carson’s strategic value and recognizes Colorado as an unparalleled place for servicemembers to train, live, and work.” ###
09.19.2018	09.19.18 Bipartisan Opioid Package Passes Senate Comprehensive Legislation includes a Gardner Bill Washington, DC – The Senate passed the Opioid Crisis Response Act on Monday evening. This comprehensive bipartisan legislation works to reduce opioid use, expand treatment and recovery efforts, support caregivers and families impacted by the opioid crisis, drive innovation of non-opioid treatment and support substance abuse prevention efforts. Included in the package was Senator Gardner’s legislation, the Alternatives to Opioids in the Emergency Department Act. This legislation establishes a three year demonstration program to test alternative pain management tools to reduce the amount of opioids being used in an emergency setting. Following the demonstration program, this legislation requires a report to congress with recommendations to establish pain management protocols to be spread across the country. “We all know individuals and families that have been hurt by the opioid crisis,” said Senator Gardner. “There’s no one solution to stopping this epidemic that harms people of all backgrounds, but we can make sure that we are doing everything we can to fight it. This comprehensive bipartisan legislation has the potential to save lives, and I’ll continue to work with Democrats and Republicans on the issue. “I was also happy to see my legislation to establish non-opioid pain management protocols in hospital emergency departments included in the package. We have to work together to do more to promote non-opioid methods to manage pain.” Additional Background on the Opioid Crisis Response ActReduce Use and Supply Includes the STOP Act to help stop illegal drugs at the border, including stopping the shipment of synthetic opioids Improves sharing of Prescription Drug Monitoring Programs data between states Encourage Recovery Supports states with competitive grants to address substance use disorders Improves access to health professionals, long-distance care, and recovery housing services Support Caregivers and Families Improves plans of safe care and support for substance-exposed babies and their mothers Increases family-focused treatment and recovery Helps youth with substance use disorders enter recovery Provides supports in schools and early childhood education programs Drive Innovation and Long-Term Solutions Spurs development of new non-addictive painkillers Addresses economic and workforce impacts of the opioid crisis Ensures parity in mental health and substance use disorder benefits ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
09.15.2018	09.15.18 Gardner and Markey Condemn Russian Interference with a Key United Nations Report Washington, DC – Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Ed Markey (D-MA), Chairman and Ranking Member of the Senate Foreign Relations subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy, joined US Ambassador to the United Nations Nikki Haley today in condemning Russian interference with a key UN Panel of Experts report concerning North Korea sanctions and calling for the release of the original version of the report, which implicates Russian entities in sanctions violations. “Russia is acting in bad faith, and we join Ambassador Haley’s call for transparency and accountability on sanctions enforcement at the United Nations against North Korea,” said Senators Gardner and Markey. "We urge the Panel not to cave to Russian pressure and to release the original version of the report. Countries not applying pressure are enabling North Korea's advancing nuclear weapons program. In the meantime, the Trump administration should immediately increase its diplomatic efforts to compel every entity — Russian or otherwise — to comply with international sanctions against North Korea. Without this pressure, North Korea will not denuclearize." ###
09.12.2018	09.12.18 Gardner and Group of Bipartisan Senators Voice Concern over State Department Cybersecurity Gardner, Wyden, Markey, Paul and Shaheen Call on State to Adopt Basic Security Measures Washington, D.C. – Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO), Ron Wyden (D-OR), Ed Markey (D-MA), Rand Paul (R-KY), and Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), called on the State Department to adopt basic cybersecurity measures to protect against phishing, hacks, and other cyberattacks in a letter released today. Following multiple reports from outside auditors highlighting the department’s failure to adopt measures like multifactor authentication and regular security audits which are mandated by the Federal Cybersecurity Enhancement Act, the bipartisan group of five senators, raised concerns in a joint letter to Secretary of State Mike Pompeo. “The Department of State’s Inspector General (IG) found last year that 33% of diplomatic missions failed to conduct even the most basic cyber threat management practices, like regular reviews and audits,” said the senators. “The IG also noted that experts who tested these systems ‘successfully exploited vulnerabilities in email accounts of Department personnel as well as Department applications and operating systems.’ “We are sure you will agree on the need to protect American diplomacy from cyberattacks, which is why we have such a hard time understanding why the Department of State has not followed the lead of many other agencies and complied with federal law requiring agency use of [multifactor authentication].” The senators asked for responses to three questions by October 12. 1. What actions has the Department of State taken in response to the OMB’s designation of the Department of State’s cyber readiness as “high risk”? 2. What actions has the Department of State taken to rectify the near total absence of multifactor authentication systems for accounts with elevated privileges accessing the agency’s network, as required by federal law? 3. Please provide us with statistics, for each of the past three years, detailing the number of cyber attacks against Department of State systems located abroad. Please include statistics about both successful and attempted attacks. NOTE: Read the full letter here. ###
09.11.2018	09.11.18 Gardner Statement on Report that Russia is Behind Attacks on US Diplomats Gardner- “Russia is a state sponsor of terrorism, and it is time we treat them that way.” Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, released the following statement in response to the NBC News report that Russia is likely the foreign actor responsible for the attacks against US personnel and diplomats in Cuba and China. “If the NBC News reports are true, this is a direct attack by Russia against the United States,” said Senator Gardner. “As the facts of this heinous act are further ascertained, I urge the Senate to pass my legislation requiring the State Department to consider the designation of Russia as a state sponsor of terrorism, as well as a comprehensive sanctions package against Russia I introduced last month with Senator Lindsey Graham. “Vladimir Putin cannot continue to operate with impunity and it is time we impose tough and lasting consequences for Russia’s actions that undermine civilized norms and international law, including the invasion of Ukraine, the support for the murderous Assad regime in Syria, and assassinations on foreign soil. Russia is a state sponsor of terrorism, and it is time we treat them that way.” Senator Gardner is the author of S. 2780, a bill to require a determination on designation of the Russian Federation as a state sponsor of terrorism and is a sponsor of Defending American Security from Kremlin Aggression Act of 2018, comprehensive legislation that will increase economic, political, and diplomatic pressure on Russia. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
09.11.2018	09.11.18 Gardner Statement on 9/11 Anniversary Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement remembering the attacks against our nation and the heroic actions by Americans on September 11th, 2001: “Seventeen years ago the United States was struck in a horrendous act of evil and terror as terrorists struck the World Trade Center, the Pentagon, and a plane was brought down in a field in Pennsylvania,” said Senator Gardner. “Seventeen years ago terrorists tried to put fear into the hearts of every American to try and bring this country to its knees. Over the past 17 years we’ve worked together, Congress, the House, the Senate, Republicans, and Democrats, all coming together to make sure that we provide our defense department the resources it needs to prevent this kind of attack from happening here again, to make sure that our men and women in uniform have the tools they need to defend this country, not just at home, but abroad so that a strike never happens again. “We’ve got more work to do, and I hope that as we look back over these past 17 years, as we look on this very solemn moment of September 11th, 2001, we will be lifted in spirit by the coming together of so many Americans after September 11th. Coming together to make sure we remembered what this country stood for, that we stood together as the United States, as a united nation, together as a people, together as a country, talking about our freedom, and making sure that we will never face this act of evil unprepared.” View Senator Gardner’s full video statement here. ###
09.10.2018	09.10.18 Gardner Leads BLM Roundtable in Grand Junction Continues Effort to Move the BLM West Washington, DC- Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) held a roundtable discussion in Grand Junction on Saturday with local elected officials, community leaders, and city employees on his work and their joint efforts to move the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) out of Washington, DC and to Colorado. Senator Gardner is continuing his work with the Department of Interior in order to push his legislation that aims to make this goal of moving the BLM a reality. He also remains in frequent contact with Interior officials about why it is important to move the BLM headquarters and why he believes Colorado is the right option for any potential move. “Momentum is moving in the right direction to move the BLM Headquarters West, but it’s important we all work together to ensure the Department of Interior recognizes why Grand Junction is an excellent location to consider for any potential move,” said Senator Gardner. “I wanted to hold this discussion so we could make sure we are all on the same page with our efforts and that the community is behind my proposal. I appreciated the input, ideas, and dialogue that this roundtable discussion created, and I look forward to continuing to make the case for Grand Junction to the Department of Interior.” Senator Gardner previously introduced the Bureau of Land Management Headquarters Relocation Act that would authorize moving BLM West. During a Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee hearing recently, Senator Gardner received another commitment from the Department of Interior about their agreement with him that the BLM should indeed be moved West. With ninety-nine percent of the nearly 240 million acres of land managed by BLM being West of the Mississippi River, this move to a Western state is a commonsense solution that he continues to support. NOTE: View video from hearing here. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
09.05.2018	09.05.18 Gardner, Markey, Rubio, Menendez Introduce Legislation to Defend Taiwan Washington, DC – Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO), Ed Markey (D-MA), Marco Rubio (R-FL), and Bob Menendez (D-NJ) introduced the Taiwan Allies International Protection and Enhancement Initiative (TAIPEI) Act on Monday. This legislation is intended to strengthen Taiwan’s standing around the world and comes in response to several nations breaking official diplomatic ties with Taiwan, due to Chinese pressure and bullying tactics. The TAIPEI Act requires a U.S. strategy to engage with governments around the world to support Taiwan’s diplomatic recognition or strengthening unofficial ties with Taiwan. Additionally, it authorizes the State Department to downgrade U.S. relations with any government that takes adverse actions with regard to Taiwan, and authorizes the State Department to suspend or alter U.S. foreign assistance, including foreign military financing, to governments that take adverse actions with regard to Taiwan. “The United States will use every tool to support Taiwan’s standing on the international stage,” said Senator Gardner. “This bipartisan legislation demands a whole-of-government approach to stand up to China’s bullying tactics against Taiwan, and will send a strong message to those nations considering siding with China over Taiwan that there will be consequences for such actions.” “Beijing is promising paydays to governments to entice them to cut diplomatic relations with Taiwan,” said Senator Markey. “Without a coherent U.S. strategy to push back, Taiwan’s official partners might drop from 17 to zero. We must stand up for our friends in Taiwan.” “This important legislation reaffirms our commitment to the U.S.-Taiwan relationship and allows for the State Department to take diplomatic action against governments that alter diplomatic relations with Taiwan in favor of China,” said Senator Rubio. “China’s insidious agenda to isolate Taiwan cannot go unanswered, and I call on my colleagues to quickly pass this bill.” “As Taiwan’s closest international partner, the United States must not waiver on our enduring commitment to the wellbeing of the people of Taiwan, to their security through diplomacy, and to their ability to defend and protect their future,” said Senator Menendez. “As China continues its quest for dominance through predatory diplomatic and economic practices, this new legislation serves as a recommitment by the United States Congress to a comprehensive, durable and mutually beneficial US-Taiwan relationship and partnership and affirmation of Taiwan’s place in the international community. The Trump administration should join our effort to send a clear message to those being bullied by China’s expansionist agenda that the United States continues to be a reliable and long term partner for our allies and our neighbors.” ###
09.04.2018	09.04.18 Gardner, Markey Call for the Release of Reuters Journalists in Burma Washington, DC – U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Ed Markey (D-MA), Chairman and Ranking Member of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy released the following statement regarding the decision by a court in Burma to convict two Reuters journalists, Wa Lone and Kyaw Soe Oo, to seven year jail terms. The two journalists had been imprisoned since December 12, 2017, for investigating the killings of Rohingya villagers by Burmese security forces. “The decision to jail these journalists for simply doing their jobs is unacceptable and represents another significant step back for Burma’s democratic transition and the rule of law, which have already been badly damaged by the atrocities against the Rohingya that these journalists exposed to the world,” said Senators Gardner and Markey. “The Burmese government should immediately release Wa Lone and Kyaw Soe Oo, or face consequences from the international community. Unless these journalists are immediately freed, the United States Treasury Department should consider imposing sanctions on every high ranking Burmese official that authorized or participated in the decision to unjustly jail these reporters.” ###
08.30.2018	08.30.18 Gardner Announces Cosponsorship of the Music Modernization Act Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today announced that he will join the Music Modernization Act (MMA) as a cosponsor. The MMA is a long-negotiated compromise between a diverse group of stakeholders in the music industry that will modernize how licenses and royalties are structured for the music industry. “After thorough and successful conversations with stakeholders over the last several weeks, I’m endorsing Senator Hatch’s bipartisan Music Modernization Act,” Gardner said. “This bill is the product of decades of work by those in the music industry and represents a sensible step forward for record labels, artists, songwriters, and many others in music and entertainment. I appreciate Senator Hatch’s leadership on this issue.” Senator Orrin Hatch (R-UT) introduced the Senate version of the Music Modernization Act earlier this year after a similar bill passed the House 415-0. This legislation passed the Senate Judiciary Committee by unanimous consent and awaits final Senate passage. ###
08.27.2018	08.27.18 Gardner, Coons Introduce Cyber Deterrence and Response Act Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Senator Chris Coons (D-DE) introduced the Cyber Deterrence and Response Act. This legislation establishes a framework to deter and respond to state-sponsored malicious cyber activity against the United States. The bipartisan bill also requires the administration to impose sanctions against all entities and persons responsible or complicit in malicious cyber activities aimed against the United States. This act is a companion to H.R.5576, which was introduced in the House by Representative Ted Yoho (R-FL). “This bipartisan legislation is another step that Congress and the Administration can take to deter foreign actors from carrying out cyberattacks against the United States,” said Senator Gardner. “Our legislation will help provide additional tools for the Administration to impose significant costs against malicious cyber actors, including state-sponsored actors, around the world that aim to endanger U.S national security and our economy.” “State-sponsored cyberattacks are a clear and persistent threat to United States,” said Senator Coons. “Rivals like Russia, China, and Iran are enhancing their cyber capabilities and targeting our electoral process, financial system, and critical infrastructure. I’m proud to introduce the Cyber Deterrence and Response Act, which will expose and impose costs on states that try to use cyberattacks to undermine American security and prosperity.” Cyber Deterrence and Response Act: Establishes a framework to deter and respond to state-sponsored malicious cyber activity against the United States; Requires the President to designate as a “critical cyber threat actor” each foreign person or each agency or instrumentality of a foreign state that the President determines to be responsible for or complicit in, or have engaged in, directly or indirectly, state-sponsored cyber activities that are reasonably likely to result in, or have contributed to, a significant threat to the national security, foreign policy, or economic health or financial stability of the United States; Mandates the imposition of sanctions from a menu of options against any “critical cyber threat actor”; and Provides an opportunity for the President to waive the imposition of sanctions and the publication of “critical cyber threat actors” on a case-by-case basis. ###
08.24.2018	08.24.18 Gardner, Bennet Applaud Senate Passage of Amendment to Reimburse Water Authorities for Contamination Cleanup Washington, D.C. – Colorado U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R) and Michael Bennet (D) today applauded the passage of their amendment to address water contamination near military bases. The amendment, which was included in the Department of Defense-Labor-Health and Human Services-Education Appropriations bill, provides funding for the Department of Defense to reimburse state and municipal water authorities for actions they took to cleanup and mitigate per-and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS) in drinking water. “It is great news that the amendment Senator Bennet and I sponsored was included in the appropriations bill,” Gardner said. “We have been fighting together for the communities that have been impacted by PFAS. Our amendment will reimburse municipal water authorities that faced immediate and necessary cleanup costs from their work to ensure their community has clean drinking water.” “This is a significant step toward providing Colorado water authorities with the reimbursement they deserve, and we’ll continue working to ensure this provision makes it to the President’s desk,” Bennet said. “Tonight’s win in the Senate is the result of years of bipartisan work with the southwestern Colorado communities, but it is only a small part of the broader work needed to ensure Colorado residents have access to clean drinking water.” ###
08.22.2018	08.22.18 Gardner, Bennet Sponsor Amendment to Reimburse Water Authorities for Contamination Cleanup Washington, D.C. – Colorado U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R) and Michael Bennet (D) cosponsored an amendment to address water contamination near military bases that was filed to the Department of Defense-Labor-Health and Human Services-Education Appropriations bill. The amendment provides funding for the Department of Defense to reimburse state and municipal water authorities for actions they took to cleanup and mitigate per-and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS) in drinking water. “We will continue to fight to make the communities whole that have been impacted by PFAS,”Gardner said. “Our bipartisan amendment will reimburse municipal water authorities that faced immediate and necessary cleanup costs from their work to ensure their community has clean drinking water.” “From the start, local water authorities took action to provide safe drinking water to Coloradans,”Bennet said. “This amendment will ensure water providers are reimbursed for those efforts. The local communities stepped up, and now it’s time the federal government does the same.” In June, Gardner and Bennet filed a similar amendment to the Fiscal Year 2019 National Defense Authorization Act. ###
08.21.2018	08.21.18 Gardner, Rubio Introduce Amendment to Restrict United States Funding to El Salvador Washington, DC- Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Senator Marco Rubio (R-FL), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Western Hemisphere, Transnational Crime, Civilian Security, Democracy, Human Rights, And Global Women’s Issues introduced an amendment to H.R. 6157, the Minibus Appropriations bill being considered on the Senate floor, which will restrict US funding to El Salvador. The amendment comes in response to El Salvador’s announcement on Tuesday that they would break diplomatic ties with Taiwan. “El Salvador has made the wrong decision regarding Taiwan, and it will negatively influence United States relations with El Salvador,” said Senator Gardner. “I appreciate Senator Rubio for working with me on an amendment to restrict funding to El Salvador, and I urge for it to be included in the final bill. This amendment will send a direct message to Taiwan’s allies that the United States will use every tool to support Taiwan’s standing on the international stage and will stand up to China’s bullying tactics across the world.” “It is extremely disappointing that El Salvador chose to sever diplomatic relations with democratic Taiwan and embrace communist China,” said Senator Rubio. “This is a grave mistake that harms relations with the U.S., and will likely prove to be costly and short-sighted given what we know about China’s ‘debt traps’ and economic exploitation globally. I am pleased to join Senator Gardner in taking steps to block U.S. foreign assistance to El Salvador. The U.S. and other democracies must stand together and reject China’s use of financial bribery and economic coercion to divide us.” View full text of amendment here ###
08.15.2018	08.15.18 Gardner, Bennet Historic Parks Bills Receive Committee Hearing Washington, D.C. – Two Colorado-focused bills, introduced by Colorado U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Michael Bennet (D-CO), received a hearing today in the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources. The senators applauded the advancement of the Pike National Historic Trail Study Act and the Amache Study Act and encouraged their passage out of committee. The Pike National Historic Trail Study Act, led by Bennet, could result in the designation of explorer Zebulon Pike’s route through the American Southwest—including significant stretches in Colorado—as a National Historic Trail. Bennet introduced this legislation in previous Congresses and testified in support of the bill in 2013. A video of Bennet’s testimony is available HERE. “Zebulon Pike, the namesake of Pikes Peak, is known throughout Colorado and the West as a trailblazer who explored the country’s new territory following the Louisiana Purchase, and I support cementing his legacy by naming the route he took as the Pike National Historic Trail,” Gardner said. "I know there are many in Colorado who are glad to see this bipartisan bill taking the first step toward becoming law." “Two centuries after Zebulon Pike made his journey across the West, it’s time we designate the Pike National Historic Trail,” Bennet said. “This legislation—widely supported by local governments across several states—not only recognizes an American trailblazer and the rich history of the West, but also would boost tourism and provide opportunities for economic development. Today’s hearing is a step in the right direction toward passing this bill and designating the Pike National Historic Trail.” The Amache Study Act, led by Gardner, would assess the historical significance of Amache, a former Japanese American relocation center in Granada, and determine the feasibility of the site becoming part of the National Park System. Gardner visited Amache in May to participate in the Annual Amache Pilgrimage. “I have made multiple visits to Camp Amache during my time in Congress, and each time serves as a stark reminder of a dark moment in our country’s history,” Gardner said. "I am pleased that the committee held a hearing on this bipartisan legislation—it is vital that this historical site be preserved so we may appropriately honor the individuals and their ancestors who live with this legacy and provide us a reminder that we never repeat our grave mistakes from the past." “The incarceration of Japanese Americans is a shameful part of our history,” Bennet said. “Amache serves as a reminder of that history, and as a reminder that progress is not inevitable. Former Colorado Governor Ralph Carr spoke out against camps like Amache—and lost his political career as a result. The hearing today is progress toward preserving Amache to teach future generations that we cannot ignore what is wrong in the present and must continue Governor Carr’s legacy of standing up to injustice.” ###
08.14.2018	08.14.18 Gardner Reaffirms Importance of US-Taiwan Friendship in Meeting with President Tsai Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee’s Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy, on Monday met with Taiwanese President Tsai Ing-wen in Los Angeles, CA. “I thank President Tsai for the opportunity to meet yesterday during her transit through the United States,” Gardner said. “As China continues its aggressive and unwarranted campaign to delegitimize Taiwan, the strong reaffirmation of America’s support for the people of Taiwan is more important than ever. “President Tsai and I discussed a broad range of issues, including strengthening our defense ties and additional US support for Taiwan’s participation in appropriate international organizations. I also outlined for President Tsai the bipartisan initiatives that I am leading through Congress to strengthen US support for Taiwan, including the Asia Reassurance Initiative Act (ARIA) and the Taiwan International Participation Act (TIPA). I will continue to do everything in my power to ensure US policy fully supports a free and democratic Taiwan for generations to come.” Senators Gardner and Ed Markey (D-MA) have worked closely on Asia policy. In April, Gardner and Markey introduced the Asia Reassurance Initiative Act (ARIA), which is designed to serve as a policy framework to enhance U.S. leadership in the Indo-Pacific region and to demonstrate a commitment to a free and open Indo-Pacific with a rules-based international order. Gardner and Markey also introduced TIPA in May of this year. TIPA establishes that it is United States policy to support Taiwan’s participation in appropriate international organizations. The legislation is in response to unprecedented pressure international organizations are facing from nations like China to exclude Taiwan from those organizations, including International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO), the International Criminal Police Organization (INTERPOL), and the World Health Organization (WHO). ###
08.06.2018	08.06.18 Gardner Presents Congressional Badge of Bravery to Boulder County Deputy Sheriff, Teri Javes Washington, DC- Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) presented the Congressional Badge of Bravery on Monday to Deputy Teri Javes from the Boulder County Sheriff’s Office. The Congressional Badge of Bravery is awarded to individuals who exhibit extraordinary bravery while protecting the lives of others, without regard for their own personal safety. Deputy Teri Javes did exactly that on September 10, 2016, when she engaged an armed man walking down Highway 287 with a handgun. While under fire Deputy Javes was able to subdue the subject and neutralize the dangerous situation. NOTE: Click each photo to download in high resolution “Deputy Javes is a hero, and it was an honor to have the opportunity to present her with the Congressional Badge of Bravery today,” said Senator Gardner. “Deputy Javes risked her life to protect others. Her actions were fearless and selfless, and while I know our law enforcement don’t do their job for awards like the Badge of Bravery, our community wants her to know that her actions in 2016 will not be forgotten.” “This is a tremendous honor to receive the Congressional Badge of Bravery,” said Deputy Teri Javes. “I would like to thank the U.S. Attorney General’s Office and Senator Michael Bennet for their recognition of my actions on September 10, 2016. Also thank you Senator Cory Gardner for taking the time to be here today to present the award to me. I would like to thank the Boulder County Sheriff’s Office for all their support during and after the incident. Thank you to Division Chief Sullenberger for nominating me for this prestigious award. I want to especially thank my family for their love and support. It meant the world to me and pulled me through this difficult time.” Read more about her bravery here. Read more about the Congressional Badge of Bravery here. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
08.03.2018	08.03.18 Gardner, Graham, Rubio, Sullivan Send Letter Urging President Trump to Continue Maximum Pressure Toward North Korea Washington, DC - On Thursday, Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO), Lindsey Graham (R-SC), Marco Rubio (R-FL), and Dan Sullivan (R-AK) sent a letter to President Trump calling on the Administration to continue the doctrine of maximum pressure against North Korea, including by imposing additional sanctions against the regime and resuming joint military exercises with South Korea. This letter was sent before the Administration announced today that it was implementing additional sanctions against North Korea, including against a Russian bank and a Chinese firm aiding North Korea, as the letter demanded. PDF of letter available here. The letter reads in full Dear Mr. President: We write with serious concern that recent media reports, citing U.S. intelligence sources, allege that North Korea is continuing to develop its nuclear and ballistic missile programs, including the intercontinental ballistic missile program that directly threatens the U.S. homeland. We commend your efforts to achieve the denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula, but now call on you to fully implement your Administration’s “maximum pressure” policy toward North Korea, including by immediately imposing additional sanctions against the regime and its enablers as well as by enhancing U.S. military posture in East Asia, including resuming joint readiness exercises with South Korea. According to the Worldwide Threat Assessment of the U.S. Intelligence Community, released on February 13, 2018: “North Korea will be among the most volatile and confrontational [Weapons of Mass Destruction] threats to the United States over the next year.” North Korea presents a clear and present danger to U.S. national security and multiple U.S. Administrations have failed to stop Pyongyang’s illicit nuclear, missile, and chemical weapons programs. The United Nations Security Council (UNSC) has imposed multiple binding resolutions against North Korea, condemning the regime’s illicit programs and imposing sanctions against Pyongyang. On June 12, 2018, following the Singapore Summit between you and Kim Jong Un, North Korea pledged “to work toward complete denuclearization.” Because of the concerted U.S.-led global pressure campaign, North Korea has not openly test-fired a missile since November 28, 2017. On May 24, 2018, North Korea also detonated the entrance to the tunnels at the Punggye-Ri nuclear test site as a “goodwill gesture” – although this site was already severely damaged and most likely rendered unusable after the nuclear test conducted there on September 3, 2017. On June 18, 2018, the Department of Defense announced that it will “indefinitely suspend” the 2018 Ulchi Freedom Guardian (UFG) joint exercise with the Republic of Korea (ROK), along with two Korean Marine Exchange Program training exercises. The UFG is the largest joint U.S.-ROK exercise and in 2017, it involved 50,000 ROK forces and 17,500 U.S forces. Other U.S joint exercises with the ROK, including Foal Eagle and Max Thunder, have been scaled back this year as well. The Trump Administration is to be commended for abandoning the previous Administration’s failed policy of “strategic patience” and replacing it with the policy of “maximum pressure” that has significantly increased global pressure to bring North Korea into compliance with its international obligations. As you know, Congress has played a key role in crafting the “maximum pressure” policy toward North Korea. On February 10, 2016, the United States Senate passed the North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act, or NKSPEA, by a vote of 96-0, and it was signed into law on February 18, 2016. The bill was the first standalone legislation to mandate sanctions against North Korea and its enablers for proliferation, human rights, and cybersecurity violations. According to the Foundation for the Defense of Democracies (FDD), this legislation “marked a turning point in U.S. sanctions.” According to FDD, since the passage of NKSPEA, U.S. sanctions against North Korea have increased by 276 percent, or almost three-fold. Remarkably, the FDD also found that in the entire 8 years of the Obama Administration, there were 154 sanctions designations against North Korea. In the first 16 months of the Trump Administration, there have already been 156 such designations. However, we note with concern that despite this overall positive change in policy, the Administration has not announced a major sanctions package against North Korea or its enablers since February 23, 2018. Moreover, we are now seeing disturbing reports that China and Russia are openly defying the enforcement of United Nations sanctions, including possibly violating oil export quotas and by continuing to host illicit North Korean slave labor. Mr. President, on June 7, 2018, you stated after your meeting with Japan’s Prime Minister Shinzo Abe: “We have a list of over 300 massive, in some cases, sanctions to put on North Korea. And I’ve decided to hold that until we can make a deal, because I really believe there’s a potential to make a deal.” We ask you to direct the Department of State and the Department of Treasury to immediately issue these designations, including against Chinese and Russian entities that are complicit. On July 25, 2018, Secretary Pompeo testified before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee that North Korea continues to produce fissile material and has not taken any significant steps toward “concrete, verifiable, and irreversible denuclearization”, as required by U.S. law and the UNSC resolutions. Likewise, Secretary Pompeo confirmed that the State Department and the Treasury Department have identified numerous entities for possible violations of U.S. law with regard to North Korea sanctions, but could not answer why these entities have not been designated to date. Mr. President, we believe that the time to ramp up maximum pressure against North Korea is now, if we are to peacefully achieve the goal of the complete, verifiable, and irreversible denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula in the near future. ###
08.03.2018	08.03.18 Gardner, Cortez Masto Introduce Bipartisan ACCESS BROADBAND Act Washington, D.C. – U.S. Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Catherine Cortez Masto (D-NV) introduced the Advancing Critical Connectivity Expands Service, Small Businesses Resources, Opportunities, Access, and Data Based on Assessed Need and Demand (ACCESS BROADBAND) Act, bipartisan legislation to establish a single point of contact office to streamline management and oversight of federal broadband resources across multiple agencies. The bill will create a simpler process for small businesses and local economic developers to access federal broadband resources, including informational workshops for local businesses and economic developers. “This legislation will improve oversight of federal broadband programs and ensure that we’re spending money effectively to narrow the urban-rural digital divide,” said Gardner. “Avoiding overbuilding and streamlining grant application processes will help expand rural broadband and keep communities in rural Colorado and beyond connected to the world.” “Nevadans rely on Internet access to enhance their education, acquire skills through training resources available online, and expand their business opportunities,” said Cortez Masto. “Better coordination between federal agencies and local governments to streamline broadband access will help ensure that every Nevadan will have the information and resources they need to gain the important benefits of Internet access while improving the transparency and oversight of federal dollars spent.” BACKGROUND: The ACCESS BROADBAND Act requires the Department of Commerce to establish the Office of Internet Connectivity and Growth within the National Telecommunications and Information Administration. The office shall: Connect with communities that need access to high-speed internet and improved digital inclusion efforts, Hold regional workshops to share best practices and effective strategies for promoting broadband access and adoption, Develop targeted broadband training and presentations for various demographic communities through media, Develop and distribute publications providing guidance to communities for expanding broadband access and adoption, and Track construction and use of broadband infrastructure built using federal support. The office must report annually: (1) a description of the office's work, (2) the number of U.S. residents who received broadband as result of federal broadband programs, and (3) an estimate of the economic impact of such broadband deployment efforts on the local economy. The office shall consult with any agency offering a federal broadband support program in order to streamline the application process and create one application that may be submitted to apply for all federal broadband support programs. Text of the legislation can be found here. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
08.02.2018	08.02.18 Senator Gardner Introduces Bipartisan Hard-Hitting Russia Sanctions Package Includes Gardner’s Russia State Sponsor of Terror Legislation WASHINGTON, DC –Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), along with Senators Lindsey Graham (R-SC), Bob Menendez (D-NJ), Ben Cardin (D-MD), John McCain (R-AZ) and Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH) introduced the Defending American Security from Kremlin Aggression Act of 2018, comprehensive legislation that will increase economic, political, and diplomatic pressure on the Russian Federation in response to Russia’s continued interference in our elections, malign influence in Syria, aggression in Crimea, and other activities. “The United States must continue to take strong actions against Vladimir Putin’s Russia for their global violations of international law and repeated attempts to undermine U.S. democratic institutions,” said Senator Gardner. “I fully support this bipartisan measure that will impose further economic sanctions against the Kremlin and also includes my language requiring the State Department to determine whether Russia merits the designation of a State Sponsor of Terror, along with Kremlin allies Iran and Syria that are already designated. Unless Russia fundamentally changes its behavior, we must not repeat the mistakes of past Administrations of trying to normalize relations with a nation that continues to pose a serious threat to the United States and our allies.” Key elements of the legislation include: A strong statement of support for NATO and a requirement for two-thirds of the United States Senate to vote to leave NATO A requirement for the Secretary of State to submit a determination of whether the Russian Federation meets the criteria for designation as a state sponsor of terrorism. Provisions expediting the transfer of excess defense articles to NATO countries to reduce some NATO countries’ dependence on Russian military equipment. The establishment of an Office of Cyberspace and the Digital Economy within the Department of State. This office will lead diplomatic efforts relating to international cybersecurity, Internet access, Internet freedom, the digital economy, cybercrime, deterrence and responses to cyber threats. Provisions aimed to pressure the Russian government to halt its obstruction of international efforts to investigate chemical weapons attacks as well as punish the Russian government for chemical weapons production and use. Making interfering in our elections a ground of inadmissibility under immigration law The International Cybercrime Prevention Act which would give prosecutors the ability to shut down botnets and other digital infrastructure that can be used for a wide range of illegal activity; create a new criminal violation for individuals who have knowingly targeted critical infrastructure, including dams, power plants, hospitals, and election infrastructure; and prohibit cybercriminals from selling access to botnets to carry out cyber-attacks The Defending the Integrity of Voting Systems Act which would allow the Department of Justice to pursue federal charges for the hacking of any voting system that is used in a federal election New sanctions on political figures, oligarchs, and family members and other persons that facilitate illicit and corrupt activities, directly or indirectly, on behalf of Vladimir Putin Sanction on transactions related to investment in energy projects supported by Russia state-owned or parastatal entities A prohibition on and sanctions with respect to transactions relating to new sovereign debt of the Russian Federation Sectoral sanctions on any person in the Russian Federation that has the capacity or ability to support or facilitate malicious cyber activities A prohibition on licenses for United States persons to engage in activities relating to certain projects to produce oil in the Russian Federation A requirement for domestic title insurance companies to report information on the beneficial owners of entities that purchase residential real estate in high-value transactions An extension on the cap of Russian uranium imports Reinforcement for the State Department Office of Sanctions Coordination A report on the net worth and assets of Vladimir Putin The creation of a National Fusion Center to Respond to Hybrid Threats. The aim of this center is to better prepare and respond to Russian disinformation and other emerging threats emanating from the Russian Federation. A reauthorization of the Countering Russia Influence Fund NOTE: Read more about Senator Gardner’s legislation to require a determination from the State Department on designation of the Russia Federation as a state sponsor of terrorism here. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
08.01.2018	08.01.18 Gardner, Bennet Urge Senate Leadership to Reauthorize LWCF Without action, program expires at end of September Washington, D.C. – Colorado U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R) and Michael Bennet (D), with a group of 12 bipartisan colleagues, today sent a letter urging the Senate Majority and Minority Leaders to permanently reauthorize and fully fund the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF) before it expires on September 30, 2018. “For the economy, sportsmen, veterans, wildlife, and our kids and grandkids, we must permanently reauthorize LWCF. We also strongly request that you include mandatory full funding in any LWCF reauthorization package,” the senators wrote. Earlier this month, Bennet and Gardner published an op-ed calling for the reauthorization and full funding of LWCF. Bennet and Gardner also have cosponsored legislation to permanently reauthorize and fully fund the LWCF. The LWCF has supported more than 42,000 state and local projects in communities across the country. The program is funded by a portion of federal oil and gas royalties, operating without any taxpayer funding. However, since its founding in 1965, more than $21 billion has been diverted from the LWCF trust fund to other purposes. In addition to Bennet and Gardner, signatories include U.S. Senators Maria Cantwell (D-WA), Steve Daines (R-MT), Lindsey Graham (R-SC), Jon Tester (D-MT), Susan Collins (R-ME), Tom Udall (D-UT), Joe Manchin (D-WV), Lamar Alexander (R-TN), Angus King (I-ME), Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV), and Martin Heinrich (D-NM). A copy of the letter is available HERE. ###
08.01.2018	08.01.18 Gardner, Bennet Backed Amendment to Maintain Southwest Chief Train Services Passes Senate WASHINGTON, DC – An amendment cosponsored by Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Michael Bennet (D-CO) to maintain Amtrak train services along the established, long-distance passenger rail route of the Southwest Chief, #3665, was included today in the 2018 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies appropriations bill. This amendment would provide resources for maintenance and safety improvements along the Southwest Chief route and would compel Amtrak to fulfill its promise of matching funding for the successful TIGER IX discretionary grant. In addition, this amendment would effectively reverse Amtrak’s decision to substitute rail service with bus service over large segments of the route through FY2019. “I’m excited to support an amendment that will greatly help the Southwest Chief’s continued presence in Southeastern Colorado,”said Sen. Gardner. “The amendment secured by the bipartisan coalition in the appropriations bill will set aside funding for route improvements and enhancements, providing the opportunity to ensure the Southwest Chief stays in Colorado and continues servicing the rural areas that desperately need it.” “The Southwest Chief is an important component of Southeastern Colorado's tourism economy, and we will do all we can to preserve it,” said Sen. Bennet. “We’ll continue to work closely with lawmakers from Colorado—and also New Mexico and Kansas—to keep running the Southwest Chief through our state." The Southwest Chief runs daily between Chicago and Los Angeles and connects towns and cities in Kansas, Illinois, Missouri, Iowa, Colorado, New Mexico, Arizona and California and provides passenger train and long-distance passenger service, particularly through rural communities. Item to Note: Last week, the Senate overwhelmingly passed a Sense of the Congress measure to affirm support for the long-distance rail service. Last month, the senators sent a letter to Amtrak’s CEO urging him to uphold Amtrak’s side of a longstanding public-private partnership to continue operating the Southwest Chief passenger train and long-distance passenger service. In May, the senators sent a bipartisan, multi-state letter condemning Amtrak’s decision not to match TIGER grant funds. ###
08.01.2018	08.01.18 Gardner Statement on Senate Passage of NDAA Votes to gives troops largest pay increase in nearly a decade NOTE: click here to download Gardner’s video message on NDAA passage. Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) voted today in favor of the conference report for the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for fiscal year 2019. The legislation includes a 2.6 percent pay raise for all members of the Armed Forces, the largest increase in nine years. Following the passage of the NDAA out of the Senate, Gardner released the following statement: “Colorado is home to a number of military installations, we have some of the highest numbers of men and women in uniform throughout the country. I am excited today to pass the Defense Authorization Act. This bill will mean more for Colorado, it means more for our national defense. This is the largest pay increase for our troops in almost a decade. “It’s going to mean millions of dollars for Fort Carson expansion and opportunities and development while it strengthens all of our bases - whether that’s Schriever, Northern Command, Peterson Airforce Base, Buckley Airforce Base, you name it. This is good for Colorado, it’s good for our national defense, and that means it’s good for this great country.” Additionally, the Support Startup Businesses Act was included in the NDAA. This legislation creates a pilot program that allows awardees of certain federal research and development grants to use a portion of that funding to create a startup business. Specifically, the bill authorizes Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) program awardees to allocate up to 5 percent of their awards for activities that are critical to building businesses, including services such as market validation, intellectual property protection, market research, and business model development. Currently, the SBIR program only offers very limited financial support to awardees for commercialization activities. The Support Startup Businesses Act would: Establish a temporary pilot program that allows SBIR awardees to use a small portion of their grants for startup-related commercialization activities. Require annual reporting by awardees on startup-related commercialization activities and a review of the pilot program upon completion. The bill authorizes the use of existing resources, so the pilot program will not increase overall program spending.The bill has been endorsed by the Information Technology and Innovation Foundation; State Science & Technology Institute; National Council of Entrepreneurial Tech Transfer; Innovation Center of the Rockies; University City Science Center; University of Delaware; Innosphere; Delaware Small Business Development Center; University of Delaware Office of Economic Innovation and Partnerships; Delaware BioScience Association; Launch NY; and Georgia Research Alliance. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
07.26.2018	07.26.18 Gardner Introduces Bipartisan Bill to Prevent the United States from Leaving NATO without Senate's Consent Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO), Tim Kaine (D-VA), Jack Reed (D-RI), and John McCain (R-AZ) introduced a bipartisan bill to explicitly prohibit the President of the United States from withdrawing from NATO without Senate approval. The bill requires the President to seek the advice and consent of the Senate to modify or terminate U.S. membership in NATO and formalizes the Senate’s opposition to withdrawing from the treaty. If the President attempts to withdraw from NATO without Senate approval, this bill also authorizes the Senate Legal Counsel to challenge the Administration in court. “NATO is the most successful military alliance in history, and any effort to abandon it would be a monumental mistake,” said Senator Gardner, member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. “I support the United States’ continued commitment to the alliance, including the provisions that require the armed support of all members in case of an attack on any one member, as was exercised after the 9/11 attack against the United States. As the Constitution requires and this legislation reaffirms, any change proposed by this administration or future administrations regarding America’s standing in this alliance can be done only with the advice and consent of the Senate.” The full text of the bill can be viewed here. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
07.26.2018	07.26.18 Gardner Meets With Supreme Court Nominee Judge Brett Kavanaugh Washington, DC- Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement today after his meeting with Judge Brett Kavanaugh, President Trump’s nominee to the Supreme Court. “Today I was able to meet with Judge Kavanaugh – clearly he is a well-qualified judge who has incredible experience in the federal courts,” said Senator Gardner. “We had a long conversation about the role of precedent and how a judge should perform on the bench. It’s not about personal opinion, it’s not about personal biases or policy preferences, it’s about looking at the law and ruling on the law and where the law takes you. We had a good conversation about how he would be on the Supreme Court. It was a very good meeting and I think he will make an incredible Supreme Court Justice.” NOTE: View b-roll footage from today’s meeting here. NOTE: View Senator Gardner’s full video statement here. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
07.26.2018	07.26.18 Senators Gardner, Coons & Representatives Lance, Matsui Introduce Legislation to Address the Opioid Crisis Through the Prevention of Drug Diversion Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Chris Coons (D-DE) and U.S. Representatives Leonard Lance (R-NJ) and Doris Matsui (D-CA) introduced legislation to prevent drug diversion in real time before it has the ability to inflict damage in our communities. Currently, no law enforcement agency or private party has the ability to provide real-time, nationwide oversight of all orders for controlled substances, which is a major contributing factor to disproportionate prescription opioid shipments to certain pharmacies across the country. The DEA Clearinghouse Act of 2018 eliminates this blind spot exploited by bad actors, guards against prescription drug diversion, and protects the integrity of the supply chain by requiring DEA to establish a national clearinghouse for all orders of controlled substances and requiring that all controlled substance orders pass through an automated database to identify suspicious orders and notify suppliers before the orders are filled. The DEA clearinghouse will detect potentially suspicious orders and protect against prescription drug diversion before it occurs. “A few years ago the DEA discovered a major drug company was shipping enough prescription opioids to the San Luis Valley for every man, woman and child to have 30 to 60 pills per month,” said Senator Gardner. “Stories like these are becoming all too common and it’s time for Congress to do more to protect communities being devastated by undetected prescription drug diversion. This commonsense legislation establishes an automated system to identify and stop drug diversion before it has the opportunity to harm our communities. I’m hopeful that my bipartisan measure with Senator Coons can help in our fight against this epidemic.” “I’m proud to join my colleagues, Senator Gardner and Representatives Lance and Matsui, in introducing this bill which will prevent unnecessary drug shipments from wreaking havoc on our communities,” said Senator Coons. “This is a commonsense proposal that will shore up our drug supply chain, eliminating blind spots, and keeping our communities safer and healthier. I look forward to working with my colleagues to pass this bill into law.” “The Drug Enforcement Agency is on the frontlines in the war against illegal use and distribution of opioids and other prescription medications. Congress needs to give the DEA more tools to help respond to emerging and changing tactics. The DEA Clearinghouse Act will help stop the bad actors who are diverting pills to users and dealers and flooding our communities with prescription opioids,” said Representative Lance. “We need to use every tool available to ensure prescription opioids are going to those who need them, and not to those who don’t,” said Representative Matsui. “This legislation would consolidate data from opioid manufacturers and distributors to ensure that they and the DEA have real-time systems in place to flag and stop suspicious activity. Today we are taking an important step in what needs to be continued, comprehensive work to fight the opioid crisis. I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues, stakeholders, and the DEA to refine the legislation and make this tool as strong and effective as possible.” The DEA Clearinghouse Act of 2018 is supported by the Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association. A one-pager on the bill is available here. ###
07.25.2018	07.25.18 Gardner, Bennet, Burr, Shaheen, and Daines Introduce Amendment to Permanently Authorize the Land and Water Conservation Fund Washington, DC –On Tuesday Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Senator Michael Bennet (D-CO), Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), Senator Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), and Senator Steve Daines (R-MT) introduced an amendment to the Agriculture, Financial Services and General Government, Interior-Environment, and Transportation-HUD Appropriations bill. The amendment will permanently authorize the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF). If congressional action isn’t taken by September 30th, funding will expire. This amendment is part of a bipartisan effort in the Senate to find a path forward to make LWCF permanent. “Congress needs to take immediate action to permanently authorize the Land and Water Conservation Fund, and I’m glad to have a group of bipartisan senators working closely together to find a solution,” said Senator Gardner. “Colorado’s beautiful public lands rely on this conservation program, and our amendment will make sure that these vital conservation resources remain available.” “With LWCF’s expiration date looming in September, we need to pass this amendment to maintain this critical conservation tool for future generations,” said Senator Bennet. “Congress should also provide LWCF the full dedicated funding it deserves.” “I’m proud to join Senator Gardner on his amendment to permanently reauthorize the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF) and applaud him for his work on this issue,” said Senator Burr. “I have long been a proponent of the LWCF, which has proven itself to be our country’s most successful conservation program. Over the last 50 years, this program has contributed to more than 42,000 recreation projects across the country and helped preserve access to America’s great national parks for hunters, hikers, fishers and families. Most importantly, the LWCF does all of this at no additional cost to taxpayers. We owe it to our children and grandchildren to be good stewards of the amazing natural beauty and resources that we inherited, so they can enjoy them for generations to come. I urge our colleagues to bring this amendment up for a vote so we can reauthorize this popular, bipartisan program before its expiration on September 30.” “The Land and Water Conservation Fund has led to the protection of more than 2.5 million acres of land and supported tens of thousands of state and local outdoor recreation projects throughout the nation, including right here in the Granite State,” said Senator Shaheen. “Permanent authorization of LWCF will build on the program’s important work in our communities that has helped strengthen our nation’s outdoor recreational economy, and safeguard our wildlife, natural resources and environment. I’m glad to see the bipartisan support on this effort and will continue to fight for this critical program.” “LWCF is critical to Montana jobs and our outdoor way of life,” said Senator Daines. “Our children and grandchildren are counting on us to preserve America’s outdoor heritage. I will fight at every opportunity for its permanent reauthorization.” Senators Gardner, Bennet, Shaheen, and Daines are also cosponsors of Senator Burr’s legislation S.896 that would also permanently authorize the LWCF. ###
07.23.2018	07.23.18 Gardner Statement on VA Secretary Confirmation Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement today after voting to confirm Robert Wilkie to serve as the Secretary of Veterans Affairs: “Our veterans deserve a healthcare system that will make certain that they are getting the best care possible, but that won’t be possible unless the VA continues to reform the way it does business,” said Senator Gardner. “Patients must have access to timely care, even if that means seeing a doctor outside of a VA medical facility.” “This past weekend, I was honored to attend the ribbon cutting for the Rocky Mountain Regional Veterans Affairs Medical Center in Aurora. The failures in the construction of this facility are well-documented and represent a dark chapter in the VA’s history - I have made it clear to Mr. Wilkie that the VA’s past errors are to never be repeated. I look forward to continuing to work with the VA and Mr. Wilkie to make sure that the federal government is doing everything it can to treat those who have served our country with honor.” ###
07.23.2018	07.23.18 Gardner Takes Further Action to Combat Russian Interference Gardner Announces Sponsorship of the Bipartisan DETER Act WASHINGTON, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today that he became a cosponsor last week of the bipartisan Defending Elections from Threats by Establishing Redlines (DETER) Act. The legislation sends a powerful message to Russia and any other foreign actor seeking to disrupt our elections: if you attack American candidates, campaigns, or voting infrastructure, you will face severe consequences. The DETER Act uses the threat of powerful sanctions to dissuade hostile foreign powers from meddling in our elections by ensuring that they know well in advance that the costs will outweigh the benefits. “As the U.S. intelligence services have reported, it is an incontrovertible fact that Russia sought to influence the 2016 elections in the United States – a fact that President Putin openly confirmed during the recent U.S.-Russia summit in Helsinki,” Senator Gardner said. “We know Russia will try again, so we must also be forward thinking to prevent this assault on our democracy from ever happening again. As we get closer to our next elections, we should be making it clear to the KGB thug Vladimir Putin, and anyone else who dares meddle in our elections, that this type of behavior will never be tolerated and will be met with severe and immediate consequences.” “In the face of unequivocal evidence that Russia worked to undermine our elections in 2016 and continued aggression from the Kremlin just four months until our next federal elections, we must take action,” said Senator Van Hollen. “The DETER Act would send a clear signal that attacks on our democracy will not be tolerated. We’re proud to announce this new support from our colleagues, and we hope the Senate will take up this bipartisan legislation without delay.” “The most meaningful measure that we can take right now to protect our democracy is to pass the bipartisan DETER Act, which imposes specific and serious sanctions against foreign countries that meddle in our future elections. We must make sure Putin understands that we will not overlook his hostilities, and he will face punishing consequences if he tries to interfere in our elections again,” said Senator Rubio. Additional cosponsors of Senators Chris Van Hollen (D-Md) and Marco Rubio’s (R-Fla) legislation include Senators Mark R. Warner (D-Va), Tammy Baldwin (D-Wis), Lindsey Graham (R-SC), Chris Coons (D-Del), Ben Sasse (R-Neb), Maria Cantwell (D-Wash), and Charles Grassley (R-Iowa). BACKGROUND Reporting Requirements The Director of National Intelligence (DNI) must issue to Congress a determination on whether any foreign government has interfered in that election within one month after every federal election. Actions That Will Elicit Retaliation A foreign government, or an agent acting on its behalf, cannot purchase advertisements to influence an election, including online ads. A foreign government, or an agent acting on its behalf, cannot use social and traditional media to spread significant amounts of false information to Americans. A foreign government, or an agent acting on its behalf, cannot hack and release or modify election and campaign infrastructure, including voter registration databases and campaign emails A foreign government, or an agent acting on its behalf, cannot block or otherwise hinder access to elections infrastructure, such as websites providing information on polling locations. Russia-Specific Sanctions If the DNI determines that the Kremlin has once again interfered in an American federal election, the bill mandates a set of severe sanctions that must be implement within ten days of the DNI's determination. This includes sanctions on major sectors of the Russian economy, including finance, energy, defense, and metals and mining. Every senior Russian political figure or oligarch, identified in the report required by the Countering America's Adversaries Act of 2017, will be blacklisted from entering the United States and will have their assets blocked. The Administration is also required to work with the European Union to enlist their support in adopting a sanctions regime to broaden the impact. Preparing for Other Potential Attacks The DNI has identified China, Iran, and North Korea as our other major foreign government cyber threats, and they may also seek to exploit American vulnerabilities in the next election cycle. The Administration should present Congress with a plan for preventing interference in our elections for each of these countries, and any other foreign state of significant concern. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
07.21.2018	07.21.18 Gardner Attends Rocky Mountain Regional Veterans Affairs Medical Center Ribbon Cutting Washington, DC - Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) spoke today at the ribbon cutting of the new Rocky Mountain Regional Veterans Affairs Medical Center in Aurora. Senator Gardner has worked with his colleagues across the aisle along with veterans and leadership organizations for many years to make sure this facility for Colorado’s veterans finally opened. “Congratulations to the many veterans who fought for this day, as we celebrate what will be the crown jewel of the VA system,” Gardner said. “The opening of this facility is long overdue, but this medical center is essential in making sure that Colorado’s finest have access to the best medical care possible. We are forever grateful to our men and women in uniform and I will stop at nothing to make sure they are given the care and treatment they deserve. I will continue to do everything in my power to make sure that crucial veterans’ projects like these are never mismanaged again.” While this weekend is a celebration for the medical center in Aurora, Senator Gardner met with the VA Secretary nominee Robert Wilkie earlier this week and emphasized the work that still needs to be done, such as filling open positions and finding qualified personnel to staff hospitals. The long wait times and staffing shortages that occur at many VA hospitals as a result of the lack of staff and lengthy hiring process remains an issue at the VA. In order to help address this, Senator Gardner introduced the Veterans Improved Access and Care Act of 2017. This legislation would require the Secretary of the VA to submit a report detailing a strategy to reduce its lengthy hiring process, and also require the VA to establish a pilot program to accelerate the hiring of medical professionals. ###
07.19.2018	07.19.18 Interior Confirms to Senator Gardner That They Support His Proposal to Move BLM HQ West WASHINGTON, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) received another commitment from the Department of Interior today about their agreement with him that the Bureau of Land Management Headquarters should be moved West. The commitment came in a Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee hearing on Thursday morning when Senator Gardner questioned Susan Combs, Senior Advisor, U.S Department of Interior. Over the last two years Senator Gardner has been making the case to Interior Secretary Zinke and the Department of Interior officials that due to the fact that ninety-nine percent of the nearly 250 million acres of land managed by BLM is west of the Mississippi River, having the decision-makers present in the communities they impact will lead to better results. Senator Gardner is also the author of legislation to move the BLM West. “Moving the BLM Headquarters West has been a top priority of mine in the Senate, and I was glad the Interior Department confirmed to me again – that they agree with my plan,” said Senator Gardner. “Making this agency more accountable to the people who have to deal with its management decisions by putting its headquarters among the land it manages would be a great start to modernizing for the next 100 years. I’ll continue to make the case about why Colorado and the West is where this agency belongs.” NOTE: View full video here. Transcript of Today’s Interior Hearing Senator Gardner: “In the coming weeks I plan to introduce a bill that would create a Good Samaritan pilot project to show that this concept can work and will work at the federal level as well as it already works at the state level in many places across the country. I look forward to working with the Department of Interior on it. And finally I would like to know what is the department’s timeline in its evaluation for potential relocation of destinations for the Bureau of Land Management headquarters?” Susan Combs, Interior: “Thank you senator for that question. What we’re doing right now is trying to get the region set and so that’s why I have two maps here to talk about. The secretary has made it clear that he does want to move BLMs headquarters west and no location has been picked but that is something that we would expect to really take a look at in the next 6 months or so, 8 months, but we do that very carefully very thoughtfully because the fact that you don’t just pick a spot, you have to do the analysis what’s its flight back and forth what’s the cost of living what’s it like to live there because you want people to go where they’re going to be happy.” Senator Gardner: “But the bottom line is the secretary does intend to relocate and move out of Washington DC to the west, the Bureau of Land Management?” Susan Combs, Interior: “Absolutely.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
07.19.2018	07.19.18 In First Bipartisan Statement, Senators Urge President to Keep Families Together Letter Also Calls for Administration to Work with Faith Community on Reunification Washington, D.C. – U.S. Senators Michael Bennet (D-CO), James Lankford (R-OK), Chris Coons (D-DE), Susan Collins (R-ME) and Cory Gardner (R-CO) today sent a letter to President Trump, signed by a bipartisan group of more than two dozen senators, stating that the default position of the United States should be to keep families together. The letter is the first bipartisan statement firmly opposing the family separation policy and urging the administration to work with the faith community on its efforts to reunify families. “While we represent constituents from all faiths and political backgrounds, we have all heard one consistent message—the United States government should not separate children from their families except in extreme circumstances,” the senators wrote. “Enforcement of our immigration laws should be a high priority, but we must also adhere to our core moral values as Americans.” “I am very grateful for this bipartisan initiative to call on our government to work with many faith communities in the urgent task of reuniting immigrant children with their families, from whom they have been separated,” said Jim Wallis, President and Founder of Sojourners. “In the faith community we have a deep conviction and commitment that families should never be separated again by public policy, and it is an essential priority for us to reunite these families.” U.S. Senators Patrick Leahy (D-VT), Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), Angus King (I-ME), James Inhofe (R-OK), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Jerry Moran (R-KS), Joe Donnelly (D-IN), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Lindsey Graham (R-SC), Jeff Merkley (D-OR), Steve Daines (R-MT), Tom Carper (D-DE), Thom Tillis (R-NC), Gary Peters (D-MI), Jeff Flake (R-AZ), Maggie Hassan (D-NH), Tina Smith (D-MN), Bill Nelson (D-FL), Ben Cardin (D-MD), Catherine Cortez Masto (D-NV), Heidi Heitkamp (D-ND), and Chris Van Hollen (D-MD) also signed the letter. The full text of the letter is below: Dear Mr. President: We write to urge your administration to prioritize the reunification of families and to ensure that, from this point forward, the default position of the United States of America is to keep families together. While we represent constituents from all faiths and political backgrounds, we have all heard one consistent message—the United States government should not separate children from their families except in extreme circumstances. As we work to find a permanent solution, we urge the administration to use all available resources currently at its disposal to reunite families as soon as possible. Throughout our history, faith-based organizations have partnered with the federal government to help achieve its humanitarian goals. Faith-based organizations, including groups like Sojourners, Catholic Charities USA, World Vision, the National Association of Evangelicals, the Christian Community Development Association, Church World Service, and World Relief are willing and able to support reunification efforts and provide critical services for children and families in need. We encourage you to partner with the faith community to assist with family reunification and keeping families together in the future. We remain committed to working together to fix our broken immigration system. Enforcement of our immigration laws should be a high priority, but we must also adhere to our core moral values as Americans. Thank you for your attention to this important matter. ###
07.18.2018	07.18.18 Gardner Goes to Senate Floor to Preview Rocky Mountain Regional Veterans Affairs Medical Center Opening Washington, DC- Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) spoke on the Senate floor earlier today about the opening of the new Rocky Mountain Regional Veterans Affairs Medical Center in Aurora this weekend. Senator Gardner worked with his colleagues across the aisle along with veterans and leadership organizations for over a decade to make sure this facility for Colorado’s veterans became a reality. “This is not the end of a project, but it’s the beginning of a promise to be fulfilled,” said Senator Gardner. “A promise to our veterans, the care that they will receive, a place where they will find healing, where they will find support, where they will find a return to good health. To our men and women in uniform who currently serve, know that you have a place in Colorado that you will find incredible care. To those who have served our country who live in Colorado, know that with great pride we open this facility this weekend.” View Gardner’s floor remarks here. While this weekend is a celebration for the medical center in Aurora, Senator Gardner met with the VA Secretary nominee Robert Wilkie earlier this week and emphasized the work that still needs to be done, such as filling open positions and finding qualified personnel to staff hospitals. The long wait times and staffing shortages that occur at many VA hospitals as a result of the lack of staff and lengthy hiring process remains an issue at the VA. In order to help address this, Senator Gardner introduced the Veterans Improved Access and Care Act of 2017. This legislation would require the Secretary of the VA to submit a report detailing a strategy to reduce its lengthy hiring process, and also require the VA to establish a pilot program to accelerate the hiring of medical professionals. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
07.18.2018	07.18.18 Gardner, Bennet, Tipton Send Letter Urging Inclusion of Anvil Points Language in Defense Authorization Legislation Washington, DC- Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Senator Michael Bennet (D-CO), and Representative Scott Tipton (R-CO) sent a letter Monday to Chairmen John McCain (R-AZ) and Mac Thornberry (R-TX) and Ranking Members Jack Reed (D-RI) and Adam Smith (D-WA) from the Armed Services Committees urging the inclusion of Section 3204 of the House-passed H.R. 5515 in the final conference report of the FY2019 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). This section would ensure communities receive their rightful payments from cleanup of the Anvil Points federal research site by the Bureau of Land Management (BLM). Senator Gardner and Senator Bennet along with Representative Tipton announced in March that after years of work, the long overdue funding for Garfield, Rio Blanco, Moffat, and Mesa Counties would be distributed by the Department of Interior. (Read more about the issue here). PDF of letter available here. The letter reads in full Dear Chairmen McCain and Thornberry and Ranking Members Reed and Smith: As you prepare for conference negotiations on the FY2019 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), we urge you to include Section 3204 of the House-passed H.R. 5515 in the final conference report. The Anvil Points Fund at the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) was established in the 1997 NDAA and used oil and gas lease revenue to reimburse the federal government for expenses invested in and for cleanup of the Anvil Points federal research site near Rifle, Colorado. These funds were mostly provided by four Colorado counties: Garfield, Rio Blanco, Moffat, and Mesa County. The revenue for this fund provided more than enough to complete the cleanup project, but the excess funds were held by the BLM. On March 14, 2018, the Department of the Interior (DOI) announced it was finally distributing nearly $18 million to four Colorado counties. Under current law, the March payment would offset the amount owed to these four counties under the Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) program in 2019. Section 3204 in the 2019 NDAA would ensure that these communities are not punished for successfully recouping funds that were owed to them by the federal government for over a decade. This section was adopted by the House of Representatives on a voice vote. We have worked closely with Secretary Zinke and Deputy Secretary Bernhardt to make certain that these communities received the payments owed to them, and we will continue to ensure that this matter is properly resolved. We appreciate your consideration of this provision in the final conference report. Please contact our offices if we can be of any assistance. ###
07.18.2018	07.18.18 Gardner Introduces Legislation to Drive Down Costs for Childcare and Educational Opportunities WASHINGTON, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) introduced the 529 Expansion and Modernization Act on Tuesday. Senator Gardner’s legislation expands the tax free educations savings account, called 529 savings plans, to be able to be used for early childhood expenses and alternative education opportunities like trade schools and apprenticeship programs. Currently, 529 savings plans are limited to educational costs for post-secondary education or private, public or religious k-12 educational expenses. “This bill simultaneously addresses two separate issues that I regularly hear about all across Colorado,” said Gardner. “First, parents throughout the state are struggling to find affordable early childhood education for their young children. While we know that those early years are critical for educational development, we don’t do enough to help parents make the most of that important time. As a result, parents are often overwhelmed by the cost of early education programs or are pulled out of the workforce to care for their young children. This bill will help parents shoulder that burden by opening up these accounts for early childhood education programs and would enable employers to start making tax-advantaged contributions into their employees’ accounts.” "On behalf of not-for-profit 'Early Learning Ventures' foundation, I am very pleased that Senator Gardner is moving forward with his effort to provide working families with a new financial tool to help defray the high costs of quality early child care and education,” said David Merage, Merage Foundation. “This new policy effort, while a first step and one I hope in the coming years we can build upon, will allow parents, grandparents, and all relatives help young families financially prepare for the high costs of quality early childhood education and care. Importantly as well, it will allow an employer to utilize this new tool and make a contribution on behalf of the child care needs of the employee." “Business leaders in virtually every community I visit talk about the shortage of skilled labor,” continued Gardner. “Employers want to pay good salaries but can’t find the skilled laborers they need. This bill enables workers to obtain those skills by putting apprenticeship, CTE, and similar programs on the same footing as college education for 529s. Whether used by a student seeking an alternative to a four-year degree or by a current worker looking to add to his or her skillset, opening 529s to a broader range of educational opportunities will help our workers adjust to our economy’s changing demands.” What are 529 savings plans?529 savings plans are tax free savings accounts used for educational expenses such as tuition for private, public and religious institutions starting in elementary school and continuing throughout high school. The 529 savings plan is applicable to all programs administered by the U.S. Department of Education, this includes attendance at any college or university, as well as any other form of post-secondary education. How does this legislation change them? The 529 Expansion and Modernization Act will also make childhood education, career and technical education, targeted training and registered apprenticeships as eligible for the savings plans. It will also open up tax-advantaged employer contributions so that employers can help shoulder the burden their employees face with early childhood early and other educational opportunities. Bill text available here. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
07.17.2018	07.17.18 Senator Gardner: "Russia is a State Sponsor of Terror" WASHINGTON, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) called on Congress on Tuesday to immediately take up his legislation S.2780, to require the State Department to determine if Russia is a State Sponsor of Terror. Gardner spoke about Russia’s continued violations in a Helsinki Commission hearing and in the weekly Senate Leadership Press Conference on Tuesday.Excerpt from Press Conference “Four years ago today nearly 300 people were killed when a Russian missile system was used over eastern Ukraine to shoot down a Malaysia airlines flight. Russia has not only downed the commercial airliner, it invaded its neighbors Georgia and Ukraine, supports the murderous Assad regime and our enemies in Afghanistan. It has engaged in active information warfare against western democracies, including meddling in the United States elections 2016 and elsewhere. Early this year they crossed yet another line when they poisoned two individuals on allied soil in a chemical agent attack. I’ve introduced legislation to require the State Department to consider within the next 90 days whether or not Russia should be listed as a state sponsor of terror and I hope that legislation will be heard soon.” NOTE: Video of Senator Gardner at Press Conference here NOTE: Video from Senator Gardner at Helsinki Commission Hearing here S.2780, to require the State Department to determine if Russia is a State Sponsor of TerrorThe legislation requires the State Department to determine within 90 days and report to Congress whether the Russian Federation should be designated as a State Sponsor of terror under United States law. This designation is made by the Secretary of State for countries that “have repeatedly provided support for acts of international terrorism” and currently includes North Korea, Iran, Syria, and Sudan. Gardner’s Op-Ed in New York Times Gardner’s release on his legislation ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
07.17.2018	07.17.18 Is Russia a State Sponsor of Terror? Gardner Legislation asks State Department to Determine if Russia is State Sponsor of Terror Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) is the author of S. 2780, a bill to require a determination on designation of the Russian Federation as a state sponsor of terrorism. The legislation requires the State Department to determine within 90 days and report to Congress whether the Russian Federation should be designated as a State Sponsor of terror under United States law. This designation is made by the Secretary of State for countries that “have repeatedly provided support for acts of international terrorism” and currently includes North Korea, Iran, Syria, and Sudan. The State Department designated North Korea as a state sponsor of terror on November 20, 2017, following a similar requirement that was included as part of the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanction Act, enacted into law on August 2, 2017. “Vladimir Putin continues to try to cause grievous harm to international peace and stability and it is time for the State Department to consider naming Russia what they are – a state sponsor of terror,” said Senator Gardner. “Under Putin’s leadership, Russia has invaded Ukraine, enabled Bashar al-Assad to carry out chemical weapon attacks on the Syrian people, meddled in the 2016 United States elections, and recently were responsible for a deadly chemical weapons attack on British soil that killed a UK citizen and harmed numerous others.” According to the State Department, the penalties for the designation include “restrictions on U.S. foreign assistance; a ban on defense exports and sales; certain controls over exports of dual use items; and miscellaneous financial and other restrictions.”Additional background: View legislation here: Read Senator Gardner’s Op-ed in the New York Times on why the State Department should consider if Russia is a State Sponsor of Terror. ###
07.16.2018	07.16.18 Gardner Statement on President Trump's Meeting with Vladimir Putin WASHINGTON, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement regarding President Trump’s meeting with Vladimir Putin on Monday: “Whether it be chemical attacks on allied soil, the invasion of Ukraine, propping up the murderer Assad in Syria, or meddling in our elections through cyber-attacks, Vladimir Putin’s Russia remains an adversary to the United States. I believe Russia is a state sponsor of terror and I’ve introduced legislation that would mandate the State Department to determine whether Russia merits this designation, along with their allies Iran and Syria that are already designated. Additionally, I will continue to support maximum economic sanctions on Russia, including the full implementation of the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA) that passed the Senate by a vote of 98-2. “I encourage the Administration to avoid the mistakes of past Administrations in normalizing relations with Russia at zero cost to Putin and his regime. The only ‘reset’ we can have with Russia is when it completely reverses course and begins to act in accordance with civilized norms and international law. Nothing should change as of today – Putin’s Russia is not a friend to the United States.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
07.13.2018	07.13.18 Gardner and Wyden Ask DOJ to Investigate Cyber Harassment of U.S. Military Families by Russian Intelligence Washington, DC: Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Senator Ron Wyden (D-OR) sent a letter earlier this week to Attorney General Jeff Sessions urging the Department of Justice to investigate cyber harassment of U.S. military families by Russian intelligence services. The letter comes after reports that a group calling itself the “Cyber Caliphate” had launched an intimidation campaign against several U.S. military spouses in 2015. The information was recently made public in a news report by the Associated Press. Two of the spouses that were harassed by Russian intelligence services live in Colorado and Oregon. PDF of letter available here. The letter reads in full Dear General Sessions: We write to express our concerns about reports that Russian intelligence services posing as Islamic extremists threatened and harassed U.S. military families. We urge you to investigate this potential false flag operation and to hold any perpetrators accountable. As you may know, a group calling itself the “Cyber Caliphate” launched an intimidation campaign against several U.S. military spouses in 2015, issuing death threats on social media and attempting to hack the spouses’ devices and accounts. The Cyber Caliphate identified itself with the transnational terrorist group known the Islamic State and its cyber threats were so menacing that at least one military spouse fled her home in fear. This story would be cause for concern if it ended there but many cyber security researchers now say the Cyber Caliphate is merely a front for APT28, the infamous group of hackers who serve the interests of Russian President Vladimir Putin. Indeed, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) have publicly identified APT28 as “Russian civilian and military intelligence services.” If substantiated, the claims about APT28 posing as the Cyber Caliphate could be the first public evidence that influence operations have specifically targeted American military families. If left unchecked, such operations would threaten the personal liberty, financial security, mental health, and morale of our military families. The Department of Justice has a primary role in investigating potential crimes against American civilians, and we note that you recently established a Cyber Task Force to address threats in this domain. Accordingly, we urge you to 1) identify those responsible for targeting military families and 2) work with lawmakers to more effectively protect our military families from cyberattacks. We appreciate your consideration of this request and look forward to your timely response. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
07.12.2018	07.12.18 Colorado's Park Maintenance Backlog "Over $238 Million" Gardner Calls on Congress to Act in National Parks Hearing and Senate Floor Speech Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) called on Congress to act on the $11 billion maintenance backlog at our national parks in an Energy and Natural Resources Subcommittee on National Parks hearing on Wednesday. Senator Gardner has been working to advance legislation that would address the billions of dollars in deferred maintenance that the park system is currently facing in Colorado and across the country. Wednesday’s hearing was on the Restore Our Parks Act, legislation that Gardner cosponsored. Gardner also spoke about this issue along with the importance of authorizing the Land and Water Conservation Fund on the Senate floor Thursday afternoon. “As Coloradans, we cherish our public lands. Fully funding the Land and Water Conservation Fund, a critical conservation program that preserves public lands and ensures public access to the outdoors, and addressing the massive parks maintenance backlog have been my top priorities while serving in the Senate,” said Senator Gardner. “We are strong supporters of protecting these lands for the next generation and we know firsthand how important it is to make investments in our parks. It is critical that we provide the funding necessary to help address the billions of dollars in deferred maintenance that the park system is currently facing in Colorado and across the country.” View Gardner’s Floor Remarks on the Legislation Here The National Park Service (NPS) maintenance backlog is nearly four times what NPS receives in annual appropriations. Without additional funding, the backlog of infrastructure projects at our national parks will increase. This maintenance backlog limits access to our parks and limits visitor experiences and recreational activities. Wednesday’s hearing focused on the Restore Our Parks Act. This measure would establish the “National Park Service Legacy Restoration Fund.” It would to reduce the maintenance backlog by allocating half of the existing unobligated revenues the government receives from on and offshore energy development up to $1.3 billion per year for the next five years. Backlog Issue in Colorado Colorado’s national parks have a backlog combined of $238,116,225 according to the National Parks Service. Breakdown of ParksBent’s Old Fort National Historic Site (BEOL) -Deferred Maintenance: $1,080,733 Black Canyon Of The Gunnison National Park (BLCA) -Deferred Maintenance: $6,508,999 Colorado National Monument (COLM) -Deferred Maintenance: $19,828,269 Curecanti National Recreation Area (CURE) -Deferred Maintenance: $14,235,808 Dinosaur National Monument (DINO) -Deferred Maintenance: $27,292,361 Florissant Fossil Beds National Monument (FLFO) -Deferred Maintenance: $2,596,109 Great Sand Dunes National Park & Preserve (GRSA) -Deferred Maintenance: $10,396,934 Hovenweep National Monument (HOVE) -Deferred Maintenance: $385,800 Mesa Verde National Park (MEVE) -Deferred Maintenance: $70,749,005 Rocky Mountain National Park (ROMO) -Deferred Maintenance: $84,234,245 Sand Creek Massacre National Historic Site (SAND) -Deferred Maintenance: $708,907 Yucca House National Monument (YUHO) -Deferred Maintenance: $149,055 ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
07.10.2018	07.10.18 Gardner Urges FCC to Take Additional Action on Telehealth Technology in Colorado Washington, DC- Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) sent a letter to FCC Commissioner Brendan Carr on Monday about the need for the FCC to continue to seek out new opportunities to bring federal funding for broadband infrastructure to expand telehealth services in Colorado. In addition to talking with the FCC about the importance of telehealth services in Colorado, Senator Gardner has introduced legislation like the Telehealth Innovation and Improvement Act. This legislation would expand access to healthcare in both rural and urban areas by paving the way for Medicare to cover additional telehealth services. PDF of letter available here. The letter reads in full: Dear Commissioner Carr: Coloradans deserve access to quality healthcare regardless of which corner of the state they are from, and telehealth plays a critical role in bridging the rural-urban healthcare divide. As a fifth-generation Coloradan from the rural Eastern Plains of the state, I have experienced first-hand the burden imposed on family and neighbors tasked with traveling long hours to access quality healthcare. Excellent broadband infrastructure can help alleviate these burdens, something I am thankful you witnessed yourself in visits to Colorado and conversations with our rural telecommunications providers. With rising suicide rates and a growing mental health provider shortage, Colorado is facing a mental health crisis. According to the Colorado Health Institute, in 2016, a record number of 1,156 Coloradans died from suicide. These numbers are particularly stark across the Western Slope of Colorado where the high suicide rates are coupled with severe mental health provider shortages and challenging travel conditions and distances. Telepsychiatry has the potential to alleviate the burden of these shortages by quickly connecting individuals facing challenges to mental health providers in urban centers. For rural Coloradans with chronic conditions, the hours spent traveling to and from Denver represent days off work and lost productivity. From pioneering innovative outreach strategies for low-income Type I diabetics across the region to collaborating with rural physicians on best-practices, Colorado providers have led the way in developing innovative telehealth strategies. As technologies continue to improve, telemedicine has the potential to dramatically improve health outcomes for rural America. Broadband connectivity remains a significant barrier to telehealth adoption and is a key feature of the urban-rural digital divide. I hope you continue to work at the Federal Communications Commission to find ways to empower rural communities and provider networks when it comes to delivering communities in Colorado and beyond quality telehealth services. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
07.09.2018	07.09.18 Gardner Statement on Trump's SCOTUS Nominee WASHINGTON, DC- Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement regarding President Trump’s announcement that he will be nominating Brett Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court. “I look forward to meeting soon with Judge Kavanaugh,” said Senator Gardner. “Over the coming weeks I will review his judicial record while also ensuring that Judge Kavanaugh will approach each case on its merits and follow the law as it is written. I hope my colleagues on both sides of the aisle will thoughtfully and thoroughly review this individual during the confirmation process and carefully consider him rather than making a knee-jerk decision based on politics and nothing else.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
06.28.2018	06.28.18 Gardner Votes in Favor of Farm Bill Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) voted in support of the bipartisan Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018 (Farm bill) on Thursday. This legislation renews the federal government’s agricultural programs, including crop insurance, farm credit, and conservation. It also renews the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP). Watch Senator Gardner’s statement here. Transcript of statement is available here. In addition to also expanding trade assistance and promotion efforts, making SNAP more efficient, and providing assistance to rural communities to expand rural broadband and addiction treatment for opioids, Senator Gardner was able to secure several important reforms for Colorado’s agriculture community. The Farm bill included the Gardner/Bennet amendment to strengthen drought and water conservation policy. It also included a Gardner amendment that authorized research and extension grants in order to utilize data and technology for more precise management of dryland farming agriculture systems, and an amendment sponsored with Senator Bennet that combats diseases harming hop plants. The Farm Bill also included the HEMP Farming Act, legislation that removes industrial hemp from the Controlled Substances Act, which will create jobs and get the government out of the way of Colorado’s farmers and agricultural industry. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
06.28.2018	06.28.18 Gardner and Bennet Announce $40.1 million in PILT Funding for Colorado Communities Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Senator Michael Bennet (D-CO) announced on Thursday that 56 local governments in Colorado are receiving a total of $40.1 million under the Payments in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) program. The PILT program is an important resource for counties across the country to provide essential services to their citizens. PILT provides funding to counties which contain federal land within their borders, offsetting the lost property tax revenue that comes from the non-taxable federal land located within the counties. “I’ve been a staunch advocate for the PILT program, and I support the federal government’s commitment to the communities that will receive this funding across Colorado,” said Gardner. “These grants, which are used for critical services like law enforcement and infrastructure investments, prove why it is so important for Congress to fully fund the PILT program.” “It’s welcome news that Colorado communities will receive more than $40 million in funding so counties can provide basic services like road maintenance and law enforcement,” said Bennet. “This underscores why we’ve fought for years to fully fund PILT and find a long-term solution to provide counties and local governments sustained funding and predictability.” “Local communities contribute significantly to our nation's economy, food and energy supply, and help define the character of our diverse and beautiful country,” said Secretary Zinke. “These investments often serve as a lifeline for local communities as they juggle planning and paying for basic services like public safety, fire-fighting, social services and transportation.” ###
06.28.2018	06.28.18 Gardner Recommends Judge Allison Eid to Fill Kennedy Seat Washington, DC – Following Supreme Court Justice Anthony Kennedy’s retirement announcement, Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) sent a letter to President Trump urging him to nominate Judge Allison Eid to fill the vacancy. Judge Eid currently serves on the United States Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit in Colorado. Senator Gardner holds Judge Eid in the highest regard, introduced her at her confirmation hearing last year, and is confident her qualifications make her a great candidate to serve on the Nation’s highest court. Gardner noted that Judge Eid is, “a well-qualified jurist, mainstream conservative, and someone who will take the cases where the law leads her and not try to legislate from the bench.” NOTE: a PDF of the letter is available here. To view Senator Gardner’s remarks click here. The letter reads in full Dear Mr. President: With Justice Kennedy’s announced retirement, you have the extraordinary opportunity to appoint a second Supreme Court Justice in as many years. I need not reiterate the importance of this opportunity to shape the future of American jurisprudence or the role such nominations played in leading many voters to choose you, first, as the Republican nominee and, then, as President. Few presidents have been able to make their mark on our courts the way you will. I have no doubt that the mark you leave will reflect your principled belief in a conservative, restrained, originalist interpretation of the Constitution. Your judicial nominations to date have made clear your commitment is more than campaign rhetoric- and our courts are better for it. While there are many high-caliber candidates, I know one jurist that will ensure your mark is unambiguously aligned with your judicial philosophy: United States Court of Appeals Judge Allison Eid. I have known Judge Eid for nearly two decades. She is smart, principled, savvy, hard-working, and dedicated to upholding the Constitution our Founders created. She is a superb jurist, with more than 10 years of service on the Colorado Supreme Court in addition to her time on the Tenth Circuit following your appointment. That service provides a track record of consistent, conservative decisions. Between that track record and my first-hand experience, I am confident that no one is more capable to ensure that your mark on American jurisprudence will make the Court and our Nation stronger. I strongly urge you to nominate Judge Allison Eid, and I stand ready to help in any way I can. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
06.27.2018	06.27.18 Gardner, Bennet, Tipton Introduce Legislation to Make it Federal Felony to Fly Unauthorized Drones Over Wildfires Washington, DC –Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Senator Michael Bennet (D-CO), and Representative Scott Tipton (R-CO) announced on Wednesday that they have introduced the Securing Airspace For Emergency Responders (SAFER) Act. This legislation, which is being introduced in both the House and Senate, makes the unauthorized use of an Unmanned Aircraft System (UAS) over a wildfire a federal felony. “I’ve heard firsthand from the men and women fighting fires in Colorado about the problems and risks they encounter with unauthorized drones flying over wildfires,” said Senator Gardner. “It puts the lives of firefighting personnel at risk and enhances the threat to public safety by causing the grounding of aerial firefighting assets because the airspace over a fire isn’t secure. We need to put a stop to this and the SAFER Act can help do that by making it a federal felony to fly unauthorized drones over wildfires.” “When managing wildfires, the last thing firefighters should have to worry about is interference from unauthorized drones,” Bennet said.“Coloradans understand the risks that recreational drone activity creates for our communities, and Senator Gardner, Congressman Tipton, and I will work to prohibit this unauthorized drone use to help our first responders do their jobs.” “When an unauthorized drone flies over a wildfire, it poses a huge threat to aircrafts working to suppress the fire and forces them to ground,” said Tipton. “Not only does this prevent the fire from being suppressed as quickly, but the firefighters on the ground are also left without the air support they may need to create an exit route in the event of an emergency. This legislation will deter this kind of problem in the future, helping Colorado’s brave firefighters perform their jobs in a safe and efficient manner.” In recent years emergency responders have had problems with individuals flying their drones over wildfires. Some instances have even required emergency responders to ground aircrafts helping fight the fires due to the risks created by unauthorized drones in the air space. Senator Gardner brought up the issue recently at the Senate Republican leadership press conference urging individuals to not fly their drones over the 416 fire in Southwest Colorado. ###
06.27.2018	06.27.18 Gardner Statement on Justice Kennedy Retirement Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement regarding Supreme Court Justice Anthony Kennedy announcing on Wednesday that he will be retiring: “I want to thank Justice Kennedy for his years of service on the Supreme Court,” said Senator Gardner. “Since President Reagan appointed him from the court of appeals more than 30 years ago, Justice Kennedy has carefully and thoughtfully approached each case that has come before him. I wish him the best of luck in this next chapter of his remarkable life.” ###
06.27.2018	06.27.18 Bennet, Gardner Fight for Hop Growers in Senate Farm Bill Washington, D.C. – Colorado U.S. Senators Michael Bennet (D) and Cory Gardner (R) this week introduced an amendment to the Senate Farm Bill to allow the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) to fight plant diseases that most threaten the livelihoods of hop growers. The bipartisan amendment would encourage ongoing work at the USDA to address two diseases—powdery mildew and downy mildew—that can wipe out as much as 15 percent of a hop field, resulting in tens of millions of dollars in lost revenue for hop producers across the country each year. “Colorado brewers count on healthy hops to produce the high-quality beer that many of us enjoy,” Bennet said. “This is the least we can do to ensure that top-notch USDA research continues to support the burgeoning Colorado hop industry.” “Colorado brews the best beer in the world thanks in large part to the hops grown in our state,” Gardner said. “This bipartisan amendment enables the USDA to do more to combat the diseases that threatens hops and cause millions in lost revenue each year. It will be good for both Colorado’s brewers and beer drinkers.” Bennet and Gardner are members of the Senate Bipartisan Small Brewers Caucus. The amendment is endorsed by the Brewers Association, which represents small, independent craft brewers across the country. Last year, sales of craft beer totaled $26 billion, according to the association. U.S. Senators Ron Wyden (D-OR) and Lisa Murkowski (R-AK) also cosponsored the amendment. ###
06.25.2018	06.25.18 Gardner Announces DOJ Accepting Applications for School Violence Protection Program Funds Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced on Monday that the Department of Justice is accepting applications for grant funding that was authorized by the Students, Teachers, and Officers Preventing School Violence Act of 2018 (STOP School Violence Act of 2018). Senator Gardner was a cosponsor of this legislation, which authorized Department of Justice grants for school security improvements and intervention and prevention programs to help stop school violence. “The recent, horrific school shootings have made clear that the federal government can do more to ensure law enforcement and schools are better coordinating on any risks or threats they may face,” said Gardner. “Our schools need sufficient resources to help stop school violence. I encourage schools across the state to look into this potential funding that could assist them in acquiring new security equipment along with also making available specialized training for school officials in intervention and prevention programs.” Background on Grant Funding Provided by Department of JusticeUp to $25 million is available through this year’s COPS School Violence Prevention Program (SVPP). SVPP funding will provide up to 75% funding for the following school safety measures: Coordination with law enforcement Training for local law enforcement officers to prevent student violence against others and self Metal detectors, locks, lighting, and other deterrent measures Technology for expedited notification of local law enforcement during an emergency Any other measure that the COPS Office determines may provide a significant improvement in security The following school safety measures will be available through the Bureau of Justice Assistance’s (BJA’s) section of the STOP School Violence Act of 2018: Development and operation of anonymous reporting systems Hotlines Internet websites Mobile telephone applications Development and operation of a school threat assessment Specialized training for school officials in responding to mental health crises Training for school personnel and students to prevent student violence against others and self Any other measure the BJA determines may provide a significant improvement in security For more information on how to apply click here ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
06.21.2018	06.21.18 Gardner Touts Importance of LWCF at Bipartisan Press Conference Washington, D.C.- Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), spoke at a Land & Water Conservation Fund (LWCF) press conference on Wednesday about the importance of funding this conservation and recreation program. Gardner, along with six of his colleagues, promoted the 100-day campaign to make the LWCF program permanent. Gardner has been a leader on this bipartisan effort in Congress and will continue to ensure the work of the LWCF that has been happening for over half a century continues. Gardner has previously stated the importance of the LWCF by expressing, “Colorado’s beautiful public lands rely on the Land and Water Conservation Fund and Congress needs to ensure it remains in place for years to come. I’ll continue to work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to ensure that we do what is right and permanently reauthorize this vital outdoors conservation program.” To view Gardner’s remarks from Wednesday, click here. Remarks as prepared for delivery: Well thanks everyone, I think there was a very important question asked that deserves an answer, does LWCF cost the tax payer any money, and the answer is no-that’s exactly right, that’s why we’re here to celebrate the crown jewel of conservation programs, LWCF. In Colorado were proud of our fourteeners, were proud of our forests, were proud of our national parks, were proud of the opportunities we have to get our next generation and our current generation into the great outdoors. Now Senator Shaheen and I were proud sponsors of the outdoor rec act. It talks about how many dollars are brought to states across this great country in terms of spending on outdoor recreation activities equipment supplies all to the benefit of our economy and our communities. It was 1893 when Katharine Lee Bates climbed up Pikes Peak and she looked out across our great plains and she looked over the mountains and wrote the words to America the Beautiful. And she looked at our purple mountain majesties and it’s because of LWCF programs that generations of Americans to come will be able to enjoy to preserve to conserve those purple mountain majesties for generations to come. It’s great to be here to support permanent authorization, full funding of the LWCF to be with this coalition, to be with our partners from coast to coast and around the country to make sure we get this job done. So thank you all, and again, the answer is no tax payer funding going to LWCF, it costs nothing. Thank you. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
06.20.2018	06.20.18 Gardner Applauds Nomination of Jason Dunn for United States Attorney for the District of Colorado Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement regarding President Trump nominating Jason Dunn for United States Attorney for the District of Colorado: “I’ve known Jason for many years, and I am confident that he will make an excellent United States Attorney for the District of Colorado,” said Gardner. “Jason has a proven record of public service and involvement in his community, and he has the integrity and character that will make Colorado proud. I will urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to support his confirmation.” Background on Jason Dunn Provided by the White House Jason Dunn is currently a shareholder at Brownstein Hyatt Farber Schreck LLP, where he chairs the firm’s Political and Regulatory Law Practice Group and its State Attorneys General Practice Group. His legal practice focuses on regulatory and consumer protection investigations, constitutional and election law, and appeals. He has argued numerous cases in the Colorado Supreme Court and the 10th Circuit Court of Appeals. Mr. Dunn previously served as Deputy Attorney General under Colorado Attorney General John Suthers, helping manage an office of over 250 lawyers and shaping Colorado’s legal strategy in national and state litigation. Following law school, Mr. Dunn clerked for Justice (now Chief Justice) Nathan Coats of the Colorado Supreme Court. Mr. Dunn is a native of Colorado, and earned his B.S., M.P.A., and J.D. from the University of Colorado. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
06.19.2018	06.19.18 Gardner Urges AG Sessions to Halt Border Policy Leading to Children Being Separated from Families – Calls on Congress to Address Issue WASHINGTON, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) joined 12 of his colleagues on Tuesday in sending a letter to Attorney General Jeff Sessions calling on the Administration to halt current policies leading to the forced separation of minor children from their parents, who are illegally entering the United States, and to allow Congress to fix the issue through legislation. Senator Gardner has been a leader in the Senate on working to find a solution for Dreamers along with supporting several immigration reform proposals to address the broken immigration system. On Monday Senator Gardner pointed to our broken immigration system and the instances on the border where children are being separated from their parents as why it is urgent that Congress pass immigration reform. Gardner said that, “children should not be penalized for the actions of their parents and that is exactly what is happening right now.” A PDF is available here.Signers of the letter include: Senators Orin Hatch (R-UT), John McCain (R-AZ), Pat Roberts (R-KS), Susan Collins (R-ME), Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), Bob Corker (R-TN), Lamar Alexander (R-TN), John Boozman (R-AR), Dean Heller (R-NV), James Lankford (R-OK), Bill Cassidy (R-LA) and Rob Portman (R-OH). The letter reads in full Dear Mr. Attorney General: Like millions of Americans, we have read with increasing alarm reports of children being separated from their parents at the southern border. Although enforcing our immigration laws is an essential responsibility of the federal government, it must be done in a way that is consistent with our values and ordinary human decency. The current family separation crisis has multiple contributing causes, including court decisions that require release rather than detention of children but not parents who enter our country illegally. But the immediate cause of the crisis is your Department’s recent institution of a “zero tolerance” policy under which all adults who enter the United States illegally are referred for prosecution, regardless of whether they are accompanied by minor children. We support the administration’s efforts to enforce our immigration laws, but we cannot support implementation of a policy that results in the categorical forced separation of minor children from their parents. We therefore ask you to work with the relevant Administration officials to stop the separation of families pursuant to the Department’s zero tolerance policy while Congress works out a solution that enables faster processing of individuals who enter our country illegally. We believe a reasonable path forward can be found that accommodates the need to enforce our laws while holding true to other, equally essential values. ###
06.19.2018	06.19.18 Senator Gardner Discusses Trump-Kim Summit Washington, D.C.- Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity, yesterday addressed the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) and the Korea Foundation. Click here to watch Gardner’s remarks. Remarks as prepared for delivery: Victor, thank you for the kind introduction. I am delighted to be back at the CSIS and appear before you today. We live in interesting times. The pomp and circumstance, or some might say spectacle, of the Singapore Summit is now in the history books. We are still deciphering what impact this meeting will have on the North Korea problem set, on our alliances in East Asia, and also more broadly, on the perception of American leadership around the world. The last time I publicly spoke at CSIS was exactly 11 months ago on July 18, 2017, at your annual South China Sea Conference. I said at the time “Last year alone, North Korea conducted 2 nuclear tests and a staggering 24 ballistic missile launches. This year, Pyongyang already launched 17 missiles, including the July 4 successful test on an intercontinental ballistic missile that is reportedly capable of reaching Alaska and Hawaii. Patience is not an option with the U.S. homeland in the nuclear shadow of Kim Jong Un. Kim Jong Un is committed to developing his nuclear and missile program with one goal in mind: to have a reliable capability to deliver to a nuclear warhead to Seoul, Tokyo, and most importantly, to the United States homeland.” I believe this statement largely remains accurate today. Unfortunately, we are not much further along to complete, verifiable, irreversible denuclearization, or CVID, than we were a year ago. While Kim Jong Un has not launched a missile in nearly seven months, he also hasn’t taken any other steps that could be considered credible or irreversible. According to experts, the four-point agreement hammered out in Singapore is- on the face of it- weaker that the denuclearization commitments that the Kim family has already made in the past, and then repeatedly violated. The Singapore agreement does not explicitly mention CVID, verification mechanisms, or human rights. At best, this meeting was a statement of intent, and a hard, long, uncertain road lies ahead. However, it would be disingenuous to deny that the tensions are down significantly on the Korean Peninsula, and that is due to the unique efforts of both President Trump and President Moon. As Victor wrote in the New York Times last week: “Despite the many warts in President Trump’s unconventional diplomacy toward North Korea, we have to give him credit. Only five months ago, based on conversations with this administration, I thought we were headed down an inexorable path toward a devasting war. A military attack would not have ended North Korea’s nuclear weapons program. Instead, it would have resulted in a war, with hundreds of thousands of deaths in Japan and South Korea, including thousands of Americans, and that the United States would have won but with horrible costs.” I think we can all agree that an uncomfortable peace is still preferable to destructive conflict, even if it is a conflict with a likely favorable ultimate outcome. I am, of course, also glad that three American hostages in North Korea have been released – President Trump and his team fully deserve praise for bringing these innocent men home to their families. Tragically, Otto Warmbier was not so fortunate as to return home to Fred and Cindy Warmbier, his incredible parents that I have gotten to know well – and who are now fierce advocates for justice for their son. Tomorrow, it will be one year since Otto passed away from the horrific injuries inflicted upon him by the evil that he faced in North Korea. We must never forget Otto and also never forget the nature of the regime that caused his death. And I will never stop helping Fred and Cindy achieve justice against those that committed these heinous acts against their precious son. It is certainly not unprecedented for United States leaders to meet with brutal dictators to achieve certain U.S. national security objectives – and even be cordial to those dictators. President Franklin D. Roosevelt met with Soviet dictator Joseph Stalin and, according to one of his biographers, the men actually enjoyed a warm relationship – so much so that Stalin, the man who conquered half of Europe and murdered millions of his own citizens in purges and GULAG camps, would apparently “grin and burst into a delighted laughter” when interacting with FDR. When meeting with Chairman Mao Zedong in 1972, President Nixon famously said that the “Chairman’s writings moved a nation and have changed the world” – that was only a decade after Mao’s “Great Leap Forward” caused the death of over 50 million Chinese citizens. President Reagan, the man who called the Soviet Union an “evil empire”, nevertheless built a genuine friendship with Mikhail Gorbachev – to the extent that Gorbachev said at Reagan’s funeral that he grieved for the “man whom fate sat by me in perhaps the most difficult years at the end of the 20th century.” Of course, Kim Jong Un is neither Stalin, Mao, or even Gorbachev. North Korea is not the Middle Kingdom, or much less Soviet Union at the end of World War II or the Cold War. So it is my hope that the flattery and bonhomie extended during this summit to a 34-year old hereditary ruler of the one of the world’s most backward nations, which has the economy of one-tenth the size of its neighbor South Korea, was in some way an effective maneuver to achieve denuclearization. Only time will tell. But our goal should never be to befriend two-bit dictators or give them the appearance of global legitimacy by the greatest nation the world has ever known. Our goal should be to bring North Korea into compliance with its international obligations – no more, no less. I agree with President Trump that there is a brighter path for North Korea -- perhaps even a path that leads to American beachside investments -- but only if the United States and the international community are fully assured that Pyongyang no longer represents a threat to its people, its neighbors, and global peace and stability. During my recent visit to Vietnam, I spoke at length with our Ambassador and high-level Vietnamese officials about the historical path that led to reconciliation between our two nations – and how this model could potentially apply to North Korea, should it choose the path of denuclearization and peaceful coexistence. But that is the historical choice that only Kim Jong Un can make – and so far there is little indication that he is ready to make this choice. In the meantime, let us all not forget that North Korea challenge remains grave. Instead of taking care of its people over the last three decades, North Korea has built the world’s largest illicit arsenal of mass destruction, including nuclear, ballistic missile, biological, chemical, and radiological weapons programs. According to intelligence assessments, North Korea is dangerously close to having a viable intercontinental ballistic missile capability that can reach the United States mainland. The summit does not change these facts -- North Korea still remains a nuclear threat to the United States and our allies. Moreover, every time we have tried to negotiate in good faith with this regime, it led to a shakedown – pure and simple. So my message today to both the Administration as well as our South Korean friends – let’s not get fooled again. Let’s also not forget that North Korea remains the world’s most pervasive violator of human rights, with up to 200,000 men, women, and children in detention camps. A landmark 2014 United Nations human rights report said that the regime is committing genocide against its own people. Last Tuesday, I met with a group of North Korean defectors, including Ji Seong-Ho, the brave man honored by President Trump during this year’s State of the Union address before Congress. Ji told me that the United States needs to exert MORE, not less, pressure to call attention to Pyongyang’s atrocious human rights record, to have any chance of affecting the horrendous realities on the ground in North Korea. This is advice that the Administration -- and our friends in Seoul -- should heed closely. Despite the grave threat the regime has posed for decades, when I came to the Senate in 2015, few were focused on the North Korea problem set, which led me to refer Kim Jong Un at the time as the “Forgotten Maniac.” The United States policy at the time, called “strategic patience”, was clearly failing to deter the regime. It was Congress that took the lead and recognized that without an immediate change in U.S. policy and a robust global pressure campaign, we could never gain the necessary leverage to force the regime to change course and to denuclearize. On February 10, 2016, the United States Senate passed my North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act, or NKSPEA, by a vote of 96-0, and President Obama signed it into law 8 days later. The bill was the first standalone legislation to mandate sanctions against North Korea and its enablers for proliferation, human rights, and cybersecurity violations. NKSPEA has since become the backbone of the current “maximum pressure” policy toward the regime. According to the Foundation for the Defense of Democracies: “The North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act…marked a turning point in U.S. sanctions. The law spurred the Obama administration to issue new designations while creating the framework for the Trump administration’s maximum pressure policy.” Since the passage of NKSPEA, U.S. sanctions against North Korea have increased by 276 percent, or almost three-fold. Even with this increase, North Korea moved from the 8th-most sanctioned nation by the United States to being the 4th-most sanctioned nation today. Remarkably, the FDD also found that in the entire 8 years of the Obama Administration, there were 154 sanctions designations against North Korea. In the first 16 months of the Trump Administration, there have already been 156 such designations. The Trump Administration has also conducted a successful international diplomatic isolation campaign against North Korea, resulting in over 20 nations downgrading or ending commercial and diplomatic ties with the regime. For example, the Philippines was once North Korea third-largest trading partner, with nearly $100 million in bilateral trade. In May 2017, I had the opportunity to visit the Philippines and to meet with President Rodrigo Duterte. One major topic of discussion was North Korea and the threat it presents to global peace and stability. President Duterte pledged to me that the Philippines would wind down all business ties with North Korea. In September 2017, Manila ended all trade with Pyongyang – a resounding success for U.S. diplomacy. But now that we have painstakingly built the sanctions leverage and brought Pyongyang to the negotiating table, it would be misguided to let up on the pressure valve. I am comforted that the Administration, particularly Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, have publicly stated that sanctions will remain in place until North Korea completely denuclearizes. I am also comforted that Secretary Pompeo has stated that “in contrast to the previous administration, we want to include Congress as a partner in this process. We want our efforts to have broad support with the American people and endure beyond the Trump Administration. A treaty would be our preferred way to go.” Congress must – and will – demand rigorous oversight of any deal with North Korea. We will also push back against any premature relief of sanctions, should that relief not be merited by the facts. Current United States law with regard to sanctions against North Korea, established through Section 402 of the NKSPEA, is clear: there can be no relief unless the regime makes “significant progress toward completely, verifiably, and irreversibly dismantling all of its nuclear, chemical, biological, and radiological weapons programs, including all programs for the development of systems designed in whole or in part for the delivery of such weapons.” NKSPEA also mandates -- not simply authorizes -- the continual identification and designation of new entities for sanctions, which unfortunately has not happened in several months now. Effective sanctions require constant action and enforcement, or otherwise they are no more than words on paper. I have urged the Administration to re-think this current pause and to resume the robust imposition of sanctions against Pyongyang and its enablers – regardless of where they are based. The Administration has the opportunity to use these broad authorities to exert maximum pressure not only with Pyongyang, but also with Beijing. China remains Pyongyang’s main enabler and trade partner – and thus a target-rich environment for U.S. sanctions. A report released last June by an independent organization, C4ADS, identified over 5,000 Chinese companies that are doing business with North Korea. These Chinese companies are apparently responsible for around $7 billion in trade with North Korea. According to open source evidence, North Korea has also used Chinese banks to process at least $2.2 billion in transactions through the U.S. financial system. This is unacceptable. Last July, the United States finally designated a Chinese financial institution, the Bank of Dandong, for conducting business with North Korea. It regrettably remains the only one such designation to date. Although the diplomatic process with Pyongyang is ongoing, the Administration should see the benefit of making it clear to any entity doing business with North Korea that they will not be able to do business with the United States or have access to the U.S. financial system. Exclusion from the center of the world’s financial system is a penalty that most businesses can ill-afford to bear. Such efforts will also re-affirm to not only Kim Jong Un, but also Beijing and Moscow, that cosmetic concessions will not be enough to dismantle our sanctions regime -- especially the powerful secondary sanctions that have been instrumental in cutting off trade with Pyongyang. In fact, we should strengthen our sanctions regime by enacting legislation such as the Leverage to Enhance Effective Diplomacy, or the LEED Act, which I authored with my colleague Senator Ed Markey. The LEED Act would impose a mandatory trade embargo against Pyongyang and impose sanctions against all those violating that embargo. The Administration should make clear to all that the only way we will dismantle the U.S. and international sanctions regime is when Pyongyang completely dismantles every single nut and bolt of its illicit weapons programs – not a minute earlier. Sanctions against Pyongyang must continue to go hand-in-hand with a robust military posture by the United States and our allies. I believe that the Singapore Summit would not have happened if Pyongyang did not believe that if seriously provoked, the United States, the Republic of Korea, and Japan would take decisive military action – action that would have likely meant the end of the Kim regime. Moscow and Beijing also knew – and feared – this scenario, and that is why they often eagerly joined Pyongyang to condemn these military readiness activities. As I stated in my speech to you all here last July: “The Administration should also continue to reject any ill-conceived Chinese “freeze for freeze” negotiations proposals. We should never horse-trade the illegal activities that North Korea is conducting – and which have been condemned by multiple UN Security Council Resolutions – for completely legal activities under the U.S.-ROK alliance." With the Administration’s announcement that it plans to suspend joint exercises with the Republic of Korea in the fall, it regrettably appears that we have taken a major leap toward such a “freeze-for-freeze” scenario. Vice-President Pence has personally assured me that regular readiness and training will continue. Furthermore, removing any U.S. troops from the Korean Peninsula in the near future would be a profound mistake. This action would only be favorable to our adversaries, whose main goal for generation has been to push the United States out of the Korean Peninsula and to break the U.S-ROK alliance – an alliance that was forged in blood and has endured for nearly seven decades. As President Dwight Eisenhower stated in his address to the South Korean National Assembly on June 20, 1960: “The United Nations response to the attack in 1950 was one of the significant events of history. This united determination of free countries will not be forgotten by those who would wage aggression or by those who seek to maintain their full independence and security. The cause for which free nations fought here in Korea transcended physical stemming of Communist aggression. Their greater and more far-reaching purpose was to strengthen and safeguard, on the mainland of Asia, a nation founded on the principles of government by and for the people.” It is my sincerest wish that the summit in Singapore puts us on a sustainable road to peace. On that road to peace, however, we should never forget what we are fighting for, who are our friends are, and who are our adversaries. Let us not forget that there can be no moral equivalency between brutal dictatorships and free societies that seek to stop their abuses. We must always strive to befriend the oppressed, but never the oppressor. Thank you again to CSIS for having me here today. I am now glad to take your questions. ###
06.12.2018	06.12.18 Gardner Statement on President Trump Meeting with Kim Jong Un Washington, DC - Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity released the following statement regarding President Trump’s meeting with Kim Jong Un: “The Trump Administration, under Congressional direction, deserves praise for abandoning the failed policy of strategic patience and pursuing a maximum pressure campaign that has resulted in unprecedented sanctions against this heinous regime,” said Senator Gardner. “Today’s summit must be followed by multiple meetings to test North Korea’s promises of denuclearization, which they have made in the past and then repeatedly violated. Until such time as North Korea takes concrete steps to denuclearize, our policy should be to continue the maximum pressure campaign. The complete, verifiable, and irreversible denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula, as enshrined in US law and multiple United Nations Security Council Resolutions, must be the only goal of US engagement with North Korea. ” ###
06.07.2018	06.07.18 Gardner, Warren, Joyce and Blumenauer Unveil Bicameral, Bipartisan Legislation to Protect State Marijuana Policies Forty-Six States, Washington D.C., Two Territories, and a Number of Tribes Have Legalized Marijuana in Some Form Fact Sheet (PDF) Bill Text (PDF) Washington, DC - U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R-Colo.) and Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) and U.S. Representatives David Joyce (R-Ohio) and Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.) today introduced the bicameral, bipartisan Strengthening the Tenth Amendment Through Entrusting States Act (STATES Act) to ensure that each state has the right to determine for itself the best approach to marijuana within its borders. The bill also extends these protections to Washington D.C, U.S. territories, and federally recognized tribes, and contains common-sense guardrails to ensure that states, territories, and tribes regulating marijuana do so safely. Forty-six states currently have laws permitting or decriminalizing marijuana or marijuana-based products - and Washington D.C., Puerto Rico, Guam, and a number of tribes have similar laws. As states developed their own approaches to marijuana enforcement, the Department of Justice issued guidance to safeguard these state actions and ensure practical use of limited law enforcement resources. However, this guidance was withdrawn earlier this year, creating legal uncertainty, threatening public health and safety, and undermining state regulatory regimes. "In 2012, Coloradans legalized marijuana at the ballot box and the state created an apparatus to regulate the legal marijuana industry. But because of the one-size-fits-all federal prohibition, state decisions like this put Colorado and other states at odds with the federal government," said Senator Gardner. "The federal government is closing its eyes and plugging its ears while 46 states have acted. The bipartisan STATES Act fixes this problem once and for all by taking a states' rights approach to the legal marijuana question. The bipartisan, commonsense bill ensures the federal government will respect the will of the voters - whether that is legalization or prohibition - and not interfere in any states' legal marijuana industry." "Outdated federal marijuana laws have perpetuated our broken criminal justice system, created barriers to research, and hindered economic development," said Senator Warren. "States like Massachusetts have put a lot of work into implementing common sense marijuana regulations - and they have the right to enforce their own marijuana policies. The federal government needs to get out of the business of outlawing marijuana." "We should trust the people of the states, like Ohio, who have voted to implement responsible common-sense regulations and requirements for the use, production, and sale of cannabis,"said Representative Joyce. "If the people of these states have decided to provide help for those veterans and others suffering from pain and other health issues, we should allow them access without government interference." "For too long the senseless prohibition of marijuana has devastated communities, disproportionately impacting poor Americans and communities of color. Not to mention, it's also wasted resources and stifled critical medical research," said Representative Blumenauer. "It's past time to put the power back in the hands of the people. Congress must right this wrong." Ignoring the ability of states, territories, and tribes to determine for themselves what type of marijuana regulation works best comes with real costs. Legitimate businesses that comply with state laws are blocked from access to basic banking services. Illicit markets often spring up and local law enforcement must divert resources needed elsewhere. Thousands of people are prosecuted and locked up in our criminal justice system. Qualified scientists and state public health departments struggle to conduct basic and epidemiological research or spur medical advances, and the fundamental nature of state and tribal sovereignty is violated. As more states, territories, and tribes thoughtfully consider updates to marijuana regulations, often through voter-initiated referendums, it is critical that Congress take immediate steps to safeguard their right to do so by passing the STATES Act. The legislation has been endorsed by organizations including the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU), Americans for Prosperity, Americans for Safe Access, Americans for Tax Reform, the Brennan Center for Justice, Campaign for Liberty, the Competitive Enterprise Institute, the Cooperative Credit Union Association, the Drug Policy Alliance, the Institute for Liberty, LatinoJustice PRLDEF, the Law Enforcement Action Partnership, the Marijuana Policy Project, the Massachusetts Bankers Association, the Maine Credit Union League, the Mountain West Credit Union Association, the National Cannabis Bar Association, the National Cannabis Industry Association, the National Conference of State Legislatures, the New Federalism Fund,NORML, the Northwest Credit Union Association, R Street, and the Taxpayers Protection Alliance. The STATES Act: Amends the Controlled Substances Act (CSA) so that - as long as states and tribes comply with a few basic protections - its provisions no longer apply to any person acting in compliance with State or tribal laws relating to marijuana activities. Clearly states that compliant transactions are not trafficking and do not result in proceeds of an unlawful transaction. Removes industrial hemp from the list of controlled substances under the CSA. The following federal criminal provisions under the CSA continue to apply: Prohibits endangering human life while manufacturing marijuana. Prohibits employment of persons under age 18 in drug operations. Prohibits the distribution of marijuana at transportation safety facilities such as rest areas and truck stops. Prohibits the distribution or sale of marijuana to persons under the age of 21 other than for medical purposes. A fact sheet about the legislation is available here, and the full bill text is available here. ###
06.06.2018	06.06.18 Gardner Authors Legislation to Bring More Doctors to Rural Areas in Colorado Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today introduced the Rural Physician Workforce Production Act. This legislation will help address the dramatically growing physician shortage in rural areas in Colorado and across the country. The Rural Physician Workforce Production Act reforms the Graduate Medical Education (GME) program to ensure that medical residents have the same opportunity to practice in rural areas as they do in urban areas. “Rural areas across our state are feeling the impacts of a growing shortage of physicians in their communities,” said Gardner. “We can do better to help address this problem and to ensure these areas are not left behind. I authored this legislation to help provide more physicians to rural communities because Coloradans access to quality healthcare should not be determined by their zip code.” What’s the challenge?The GME program was established as a way for the federal government to support medical residency training to ensure physician supply and access to care. However, the program has fallen short of keeping this promise and has not provided a sufficient physician supply to rural areas. According to the Health Resources and Service Administration (HRSA), a mere 57 percent of the country lives in a geographic region that is having its primary care needs met. How will the Rural Physician Workforce Production Act work to fix it?One of the greatest indicators of where a doctor will practice is the location of their residency, however, current caps and other limitations on rural residency programs have put rural America at a significant disadvantage compared to their urban counter parts when it comes to accepting residents in order to recruit and retain the next generation of doctors. The Rural Physician Workforce Production Act works to address this issue by establishing a national per resident payment amount in order to make accepting residents a financially viable option for rural hospitals. Additionally, many urban and rural hospitals have partnered to effectively promote rural training by establishing rural training track programs. However, current laws restrict the ability of hospitals to expand these programs. The Rural Physician Workforce Production Act addresses this issue by eliminating caps on urban and rural hospitals that have prevented them from expanding or creating new rural training track programs in order to produce more rural physicians. Beyond primary care needs, there is also a significant deficit of specialty care doctors practicing in rural areas. In Colorado, there are approximately 150 specialists per 100,000 as compared with 65 specialists per 100,000 in rural communities. This leads to residents of underserved communities driving significant distances to access care in more urban centers. This legislation aims to close this gap and increase access by allowing residents in all medical specialties to gain exposure to practicing in a rural area in eight week periods or longer. This is necessary because oftentimes residents in medical specialties are confined to completing their residency in an urban center because they need to meet patient mix requirements. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515
06.05.2018	06.05.18 Gardner, Bennet Announce $65 Million South I-25 and $25 Million I-70 INFRA Grants Washington, DC - Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Michael Bennet (D-CO) today announced El Paso County will receive a $65 million Infrastructure for Rebuilding America (INFRA) grant to widen an approximately 18-mile segment of I-25 from Monument to Castle Rock by adding one express lane in each direction. Additionally, the Colorado Department of Transportation will receive a $25 million INFRA grant to add an additional 12-mile shoulder lane on Interstate 70 in Clear Creek County. “I’m thrilled to announce Colorado will receive $90 million dollars for critical infrastructure projects in our state,” said Gardner. “Coloradans who commute on South I-25 every day or utilize I-70 to travel to the Western Slope and experience the beautiful public lands Colorado has to offer are all too familiar with the unbearable traffic on Colorado highways. These projects will help alleviate congestion on South I-25 and I-70 and help improve the lives of every Coloradan who travels our roads.” "Colorado's infrastructure requires significant investment to keep pace with the enormous growth of new residents and tourists,” said Bennet. “These grants will help make improvements to the critical links Coloradans use every day to reach the high country and Southern Colorado." Gardner and Bennet sent letters in support of these grants in October 2017. ###
06.04.2018	06.04.18 Senators Gardner, Markey to Hold Hearing on North Korea Before Trump-Kim Summit Washington, DC – On Tuesday, June 5th, U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Ed Markey (D-MA), Chairman and Ranking Member of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy, will lead a Subcommittee hearing focused on next steps for United States policy toward North Korea as President Donald Trump prepares to meet in Singapore with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un. A live stream of the hearing can be viewed here. **Senator Gardner and Senator Markey will hold a media availability directly following the hearing** WHAT: Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy Hearing on next steps for United States policy toward North Korea. WHEN: Tuesday, June 5th at 10:00 AM EST WHERE: Senate Dirksen Building Room 419 WITNESSES: -Victor Cha, Senior Adviser and Korea Chair, Center for Strategic & International Studies -Joseph Y. Yun, Senior Adviser, The Asia Center United States Institute of Peace Senators Gardner and Markey have worked closely on Asia policy, specifically involving North Korea. In April, Gardner and Markey introduced the Asia Reassurance Initiative Act (ARIA),which is designed to serve as a policy framework to enhance U.S. leadership in the Indo-Pacific region and to demonstrate a commitment to a free and open Indo-Pacific and the rules-based international order. Additionally, Gardner and Markey have also introduced the Leverage to Enhance Effective Diplomacy Act. This legislation economically and diplomatically pressures North Korea and its enablers, and authorizes efforts to combat Pyongyang’s widespread human rights and labor trafficking abuses. ###
05.28.2018	05.28.18 Gardner Remembers our Nation’s Heroes on Memorial Day Washington, DC - Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statement in honor of Memorial Day: “On this Memorial Day, we all take time to remember the brave men and women who have made the ultimate sacrifice in defense of our country. We live in the land of freedom and opportunity only because our heroes have given everything to protect us. Today is about celebrating their life and ensuring their legacy lives on. Thank you to these brave men and women and we are forever grateful for their service.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515
05.25.2018	05.25.18 Gardner, Markey Introduce Legislation to Ensure Taiwan’s Role on World Stage is Not Diminished by China Washington, DC - Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Edward J. Markey (D-Mass.), Chairman and Ranking Member of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity, introduced the Taiwan International Participation Act of 2018 (TIPA). The legislation establishes that it’s United States policy to support Taiwan’s participation in appropriate international organizations. “The United States has an obligation to do everything it can to strengthen Taiwan’s international standing,” said Gardner. “This bipartisan legislation will help ensure that major international organizations do not turn a blind eye to our ally Taiwan simply because of China’s bullying tactics.” “Taiwan has long been an active and productive contributor in international organizations that do not require statehood,”said Senator Markey. “Taiwan’s participation should continue, as we have a broader responsibility to our allies and partners to ensure coercion does not become the norm in the Indo-Pacific and beyond.” The legislation is in response to unprecedented pressure international organizations are facing from nations like China to exclude Taiwan from organizations, including International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO), the International Criminal Police Organization (INTERPOL), and the World Health Organization (WHO). The World Health Assembly (WHA) is taking place right now in Geneva and due to pressure from China, Taiwan was not invited to participate again this year. Taiwan has participated as an observer to this body from 2009 until 2017, when it did not receive an invitation. Additionally, the legislation instructs U.S. representatives in international organizations to use the voice and vote of the U.S. to support Taiwan’s inclusion, along with directing the President or his designees to raise Taiwan’s participation in appropriate international organizations in all bilateral engagements with China. ###
05.25.2018	05.25.18 Gardner, Udall Introduce Bill to Put Wi-Fi on School Buses Bipartisan bill aims to close "homework gap" that disadvantages low-income and rural students without internet access at home WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R-Colo.) and Tom Udall (D-N.M.) introduced a bill to put wireless internet on school buses in order to help students without broadband access at home get online to study and do homework. The legislation would allow the Federal Communications Commission’s (FCC) E-Rate program to reimburse schools that place Wi-Fi technology on school buses carrying students to school or school related extracurricular activities. “Many students in rural school districts across Colorado and the country spend hours on the bus each day commuting to and from school and traveling to sporting events,” said Gardner. “These students should have the opportunity to use their time more effectively and installing Wi-Fi on school buses will allow them to finish homework assignments and bring the classroom to the road. Senator Udall and I are introducing this bipartisan legislation that will allow school districts to invest in their students and use federal dollars to outfit their school buses with WiFi. This will help rural students and especially low-income students who may not otherwise have access to mobile Internet. I’m excited about this new opportunity and look forward to seeing students in Colorado benefit from this initiative.” “Every New Mexico kid should have every opportunity to succeed – no matter where they live. But nearly one-third of kids in New Mexico are at risk of falling behind simply because they can’t get on the internet at home,” Udall said. “It’s time to end the homework gap. Our legislation will help give all students the ability to get online to study and do homework assignments while they’re on the bus – a common sense, 21st century solution. By boosting federal investment in broadband and internet infrastructure, we’ll help close the digital divide that hurts too many rural New Mexico communities, Tribes, and low-income families.” The legislation has received widespread support from stakeholders, including the School Superintendents Association, a professional organization representing thousands of educational leaders through America and the world, and the Competitive Carriers Association, an advocacy organization for rural, regional and nationwide wireless telecommunications. “Fountain-Fort Carson School District serves and supports the military families of Fort Carson and the City of Fountain in Colorado,” said Fountain-Fort Carson School Superintendent Keith Owen. “Our ability to provide Wi-Fi Services on our busses to all of our students while they are transported to and from school and activities would only further enhance educational opportunities for our students and compliment the 1:1 initiatives in our school district. Providing districts access to E-rate for the necessary funding to make Wi-Fi on busses happen, would allow many districts to make this idea a reality for their students. “When we think about efficiencies in federal policies, and common sense solutions that allow education system leaders to make small changes with big impacts: that is the type of policy we can support," said Daniel A. Domenech, Executive Director of the School Superintendents Association. "AASA applauds Mr. Gardner and Mr. Udall for their continued leadership on the issue of expanding access to internet for our students, and AASA is pleased to support their bill that would require the Federal Communications Commission to include Wi-Fi access on school buses an eligible use of the E-Rate program. AASA has long supported the E-Rate program, responsible for transforming internet access in classrooms across the nation over the last two decades, and this legislation is another step forward in ensuring that today’s 24-hour students have 24-hour access.” “Making Wi-Fi services available for students on school buses eligible for E-rate support is a win-win for everyone, and I thank Senators Udall and Gardner for introducing this legislation," said Steven K. Berry, President and CEO of the Competitive Carriers Association. "Access to educational resources is just one of the many benefits that robust mobile broadband services provides, and this bill will be especially beneficial for students in rural areas with long drive-times to and from school. ‘Connected buses’ should be available to all students, no matter where they live, and CCA supports this legislation moving forward.” A copy of the legislation is available HERE. ###
05.24.2018	05.24.18 Gardner Statement on President’s Decision Regarding North Korea Summit Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy, today released the below statement following President Trump’s decision to cancel the summit with Kim Jong Un. “President Trump has made the right decision to cancel the summit with Kim Jong Un until North Korea is ready to act in good faith to fully denuclearize,” said Gardner. “We must double down on our strategy of maximum pressure and engagement. It’s time to pass my bipartisan legislation, the LEED Act, because it will increase the pressure on Kim Jong Un by implementing a full economic embargo and targeting his regime’s enablers. Our goal of any discussions with North Korea should remain the complete, verifiable and irreversible denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula.” Gardner authored the North Korea Sanctions Policy and Enhancement Act, which was signed into law by President Obama in February of 2016 and marked the first time Congress imposed stand-alone mandatory sanctions on North Korea. Gardner recently introduced comprehensive bipartisan legislation, the LEED Act, to impose an economic and diplomatic embargo against North Korea and its enablers, and to authorize efforts to combat Pyongyang’s widespread human rights and labor trafficking abuses. Gardner has been in close contact with the President and his national security team regarding North Korea since the beginning of the Trump Administration and has continually urged the President to implement a tough maximum pressure campaign. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515
05.23.2018	05.23.18 Gardner Provision Included in Senate-Passed VA Reform Bill Bill Headed to President’s Desk to be Signed into Law Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statement following the Senate’s passage of the VA MISSION Act, legislation that will overhaul the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) and improve care for our veterans. A key provision from Gardner’s Veterans Improved Access and Care Act of 2017 was included in the VA MISSION Act. Under current law, the CHOICE Act, a veteran can see a medical professional outside the VA system if they have to wait longer than 30 days for an appointment or live more than 40 miles away from a VA facility. Gardner’s provision, included in the VA MISSION Act, expands on the success of the CHOICE Act by eliminating the 30 day, 40 mile eligibility rule, giving veterans more access to private and local medical care regardless of their situation or location. “It is long past time to implement meaningful reforms that will help our veterans receive the care they deserve,” said Gardner. “The VA MISSION Act is a landmark, bipartisan bill that will change the way the VA operates and improve the healthcare system our veterans rely on. In Colorado, we have seen wait-times for veterans exceed 40 days. This is unacceptable and this legislation will help fix this problem. If a veteran can’t get an appointment with the VA they are free to see a doctor of their choice, regardless of their location. Timely access to quality healthcare is what our veterans deserve and it’s about time we live up to this commitment.” The VA MISSION Act also implements the following reforms: · Permanently creates a new Veteran Community Care Program to replace the Choice Program. · Removes barriers for VA healthcare providers to practice telemedicine across state lines. · Expands caregiver benefits to veterans of all eras. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515
05.17.2018	05.17.18 Gardner Votes for Haspel: First Female CIA Director in United States History Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the below statement following his vote to confirm Gina Haspel as Director of the CIA: “Gina Haspel is the right person to serve as our nation’s next Director of the CIA. She has the backing of both Republicans and Democrats in the Senate, but most importantly she has the unequivocal support from the courageous men and women that served alongside her at the CIA. Under her leadership, the CIA will continue their important work to keep our country safe.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515
05.16.2018	05.16.18 Gardner, Bennet, Buck Introduce the Amache Study Act Legislation Will Study the Process of Including Amache in the National Park System Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Senator Michael Bennet (D-CO), and Congressman Ken Buck (CO-4) today introduced the Amache Study Act, legislation that would direct the Department of Interior to conduct a special resource study at Amache, a former Japanese American relocation center in Granada, Colorado. The purpose of the study is to assess the historical significance of Amache and determine the feasibility of Amache becoming part of the National Park System. Currently, Amache is a National Historic landmark. During World War II, about 10,000 Japanese Americans passed through Amache and over 7,000 called Amache home. According to the National Park Service, “the cemetery, a reservoir, a water well and tank, the road network, concrete foundations, watch towers, the military police compound, and trees planted by the internees still remain.” “When I visited Amache last summer, it served as a stark reminder of a dark moment in our country’s history,” said Gardner. “It’s important we remember the grave injustice that was committed against Japanese Americans during World War II so that we never repeat our mistakes from the past. I’m introducing the Amache Study Act with Senator Bennet and Congressman Buck so we can begin the process of recognizing Amache as a part of the National Park System and ensure the site is preserved for future generations.” “The incarceration of Japanese Americans is a shameful part of our heritage,” Bennet said. “Amache serves as a reminder of that heritage, and as a reminder that progress is not inevitable. Former Colorado Governor Ralph Carr spoke out against camps like Amache—and lost his political career as a result. Preserving Amache will teach future generations that we cannot ignore what is wrong in the present and continue Governor Carr’s legacy of standing up to injustice.” “America is better today because we’ve learned from the lessons of our past,” Congressman Ken Buck stated. “Camp Amache is one of those hard lessons that needs to be preserved, for the people of Eastern Colorado and the rest of our nation.” As The Prowers Journal reported, “U.S. Senator, Cory Gardner, visited the site and the Amache Museum in Granada Monday, August 21st to get a better understanding of the scope of the Camp and the private efforts that have allowed the site and the museum to be developed and maintained.” Gardner met with local officials and students involved in the preservation of the current site. Bennet also visited Amache last year, where he was guided through the site by John Hopper, founder of the Amache Preservation Society, and student volunteers. Gardner will be traveling to Amache this Saturday, May 19, 2018 to participate in the Annual Amache Pilgrimage. ###
05.15.2018	05.15.18 Senators Gardner and Markey Highlight their Asia Strategy SFRC Hearing Highlights ARIA Legislation Washington, DC - U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Ed Markey (D-MA), Chairman and Ranking Member of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy led a hearing on Tuesday focusing on their legislation, the Asia Reassurance Initiative Act (ARIA). Last month, Senator Gardner and Senator Markey along with Senator Rubio (R-FL) and Senator Cardin (D-MD) introduced the Asia Reassurance Initiative Act (ARIA), which is designed to serve as a policy framework to enhance U.S. leadership in the Indo-Pacific region and to demonstrate a commitment to a free and open Indo-Pacific and the rules-based international order. “Our ARIA legislation provides the United States a long-term strategy in Asia that preserves American national security interests, promotes American businesses and creates jobs through trade opportunities, and projects American values of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms,” said Senator Gardner. “The United States has always been -- and will always remain -- a Pacific power, and the support expressed by Administration officials at today’s hearing proves that the U.S. government can speak with one voice to reassure our allies and to deter our adversaries in the Indo-Pacific region.” “We are at a unique moment in history in which the United States needs to communicate to Asia – to allies and adversaries alike – that we are invested in the region,” said Senator Markey. “We have the opportunity to push back on China’s efforts to undermine the international system, strengthen alliances, tackle issues from terrorism to climate change, and empower people to seek freedom and economic opportunity. We can do that through bipartisan policies that promote the rules-based order, peacefully denuclearize North Korea, and promote human rights and the respect for democratic values. The United States simply cannot afford to cede leadership in such a critical region.” Today’s hearing included witness testimony from Randall Schriver, Assistant Secretary of Asian and Pacific Security Affairs at Department of Defense and Alex Wong, Deputy Assistant Secretary, Bureau of East Asian and Pacific Affairs at Department of State. In 2017, Gardner and Markey held four hearings in their Subcommittee to inform ARIA. The hearing series, titled, “American Leadership in the Asia-Pacific,” included hearings on security challenges, economic opportunities, promoting human rights and the rule of law, and U.S.-China relations. A background paper on ARIA can be found here. ###
05.15.2018	05.15.18 Gardner to Introduce Body Armor Bill to Protect Law Enforcement Officers Participates in Wreath Laying Ceremony for National Police Week Click here to download Gardner’s video statement. Click here to download B-Roll from the Wreath Ceremony. Click here to download pictures from the Wreath Ceremony. Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today that he will be introducing legislation designed to help outfit every law enforcement officer in the country with Type III body armor, which is designed to stop rifle ballistics. According to the Department of Justice (DOJ), the vast majority of bulletproof vests purchased using the Bullet Proof Vest Partnership (BVP) grant program were Type II vests. Type II vests do not stop rifle ballistics, which killed two of the officers in Colorado who were wearing either Type II or Type I body armor at the time. Type III rifle-resistant plates might have saved their lives, but many departments, especially smaller departments, simply do not have the budget to purchase Type III body armor vests. The bill also authorizes additional funding for the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) to research more advanced body armor. “Our law enforcement officers put their lives on the line every day to protect and serve our communities,” said Gardner. “They are always there to help others and deserve nothing less than our gratitude and thanks. Unfortunately, Colorado and departments across the country have seen too many officer involved deaths and we must do more to protect those who protect us. Our officers should not be put in harm’s way without the absolute best equipment and that is why I am introducing legislation, which will make it easier for every officer in the country to purchase body armor that can withstand rifle bullets. I will work with members on both sides of the aisle to see this important piece of legislation signed into law.” Gardner also took part in the National Peace Officers’ Wreath Laying Ceremony as part of National Police Week. Gardner met with Coloradan officers and officers from around the country to thank them for their service and honor the law enforcement lives we have lost in 2017. Gardner continued, “It was a humbling experience to participate in today’s ceremony and remember the law enforcement lives we have lost. Colorado’s law enforcement community has experienced tremendous loss these last few months and I want every officer to know I stand with them and have their backs.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515
05.10.2018	05.10.18 Gardner, Bipartisan Group of Senators Introduces Legislation to Extend Visa Program for Afghan Interpreters, Support Staff Legislation would authorize 4,000 additional visas for the next fiscal year Washington, DC – U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), along with five of their colleagues, introduced bipartisan legislation to further extend the Afghan Special Immigrant Visa program (SIV), which allows Afghans who have supported the U.S. mission in Afghanistan and face threats as a result of their service to apply for refuge in the United States. The legislation authorizes 4,000 additional visas for the next fiscal year and takes additional steps to strengthen Afghan SIV processing and vetting. “When I was in Afghanistan recently meeting with American commanders and troops from Colorado, I also had the opportunity to meet several Afghan soldiers and civilians assisting the United States Armed Forces in our fight against terror,” said Gardner. “These Afghan personnel are standing shoulder to shoulder with the United States and providing critical support to our mission. We must thank them for their sacrifice and provide refuge to these courageous Afghans. This bipartisan legislation is a good first step to keep our promise to the Afghan people.” “Afghan civilians continue to stand shoulder to shoulder with Americans in the battlefield at tremendous risk to the safety and welfare of their families,” said Shaheen. “Their service in support of our military and diplomatic personnel in Afghanistan has saved American lives. Given the Trump Administration’s decision to deploy several thousand additional U.S. military personnel to Afghanistan last year, continued authorization of the Afghan SIV program remains critical to the mission. Congress has an obligation to do its part to uphold our nation’s promise to allow these brave Afghans and their families to find refuge in the United States. I’m very pleased that, once again, this effort will be on a bipartisan basis.” The legislation can be read here. ###
05.09.2018	05.09.18 Gardner Statement on Release of North Korea’s American Hostages Click here to download Gardner’s video statement. Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statement following President Trump’s announcement that three American hostages have been released from North Korea and are on their way back to the United States with Secretary of State Mike Pompeo. “Today’s development is great news for these Americans and their families and I could not be happier that they will soon be back on American soil. Under the previous Administration, I was a vocal opponent of their ‘strategic patience’ strategy and advocated for a maximum pressure doctrine to counter North Korea. This maximum pressure strategy began with my North Korea sanctions legislation and the Trump Administration has carried out this strategy and has brought North Korea to the negotiating table. “We must continue our maximum pressure campaign on Kim Jong Un until we achieve our ultimate goal — complete, verifiable, irreversible denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula. I will continue to work with President Trump and Secretary of State Pompeo ahead of the President’s summit with North Korea and will do everything I can to guarantee a successful summit.” Gardner authored the North Korea Sanctions Policy and Enhancement Act, which was signed into law by President Obama in February of 2016 and marked the first time Congress imposed stand-alone mandatory sanctions on North Korea. Gardner recently introduced comprehensive bipartisan legislation to impose an economic and diplomatic embargo against North Korea and its enablers, and to authorize efforts to combat Pyongyang’s widespread human rights and labor trafficking abuses. Gardner has been in close contact with the President and his national security team regarding North Korea since the beginning of the Trump Administration and has continually urged the President to implement a tough maximum pressure campaign. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515
05.07.2018	05.07.18 Honor Flight Northern Colorado Heroes Meet with Gardner at WWII Memorial Click here to download a video message from Senator Gardner. Click here to download B-roll. Click here to download photos. Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today welcomed veterans and their families from Honor Flight Northern Colorado to the World War II Memorial in Washington, DC. This year marks the 10th anniversary of Honor Flight Northern Colorado bringing veterans to the nation’s capital. “It was an incredible honor to meet our veterans at the World War II memorial in our nation’s capital,” said Gardner. “I met with Vietnam, Korea and even a few World War II veterans and thanked them for their service to our country. Our veterans are the very best America has to offer and we owe them for fighting for the freedoms we enjoy every day.” According to Honor Flight Northern Colorado, they will have brought nearly 3,000 veterans in their 10 years of operation, including 1,200 World War II veterans to Washington, DC to honor the heroic commitment they have made to this country. Read more here in the Greeley Tribune about Honor Flight Northern Colorado’s trip this week. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515
05.01.2018	05.01.18 Colorado Congressional Delegation: Relocate Army Futures Command to Denver Washington D.C. — The entire Colorado Congressional delegation today sent a letter to Secretary of the Army, Dr. Mark T. Esper, urging him to choose Denver as the new headquarters for Army Futures Command. The members of Congress wrote, “The Denver ecosystem will provide the Army with unmatched access to the top talent, innovation, and research and academia critical to the Army Futures Command’s mission to keep our Armed Forces at the global forefront of military science and technology. Denver is a bastion for high-tech industry and innovation, and has a dynamic start-up environment.” The letter reads in full: Dear Secretary Esper: As members of the Colorado delegation, we urge you to stand up the Army Futures Command in Denver, Colorado. The Denver ecosystem will provide the Army with unmatched access to the top talent, innovation, and research and academia critical to the Army Futures Command’s mission to keep our Armed Forces at the global forefront of military science and technology. Denver is a bastion for high-tech industry and innovation, and has a dynamic start-up environment. Colorado start-up businesses attracted more than $670 million in venture capital last year alone, ranking us fourth in the nation for start-up activity. Incubators and accelerators in the Denver area include TechStars, Galvanize, and the Fitzsimons Innovation Campus. Furthermore, Colorado is first in private aerospace employment, third for concentration of high-tech workers, fourth for high-tech performance, and fourth for STEM-based economy. Denver’s top industries include advanced engineering, bioscience, energy and natural resources, technology and information, and aerospace. Additionally, locating the Army Futures Command in Denver would give the Army access to the 33 national labs across Colorado, including the National Renewable Energy Laboratory located in the western outskirts of Denver. Overall, the military and civil space missions located in Colorado have attracted the second-largest aerospace economy in the nation, hosting eight major space contractors and countless small and medium-sized companies. The Denver area has a thriving academic community that graduates top scientists and engineers ready to enter the workforce, including top-tier institutions such as the University of Denver, the University of Colorado system, the Air Force Academy, and the Colorado School of Mines. Denver’s academic institutions attract world-class talent, millions in research funding, and have forged cutting-edge research partnerships that will support military readiness. The metro Denver area is also home to Buckley Air Force Base, a thriving military installation that houses vital national security missions and could provide support to military and civilian personnel and their families assigned to the Futures Command. Along with a growing and vibrant tech and academic community, Denver is renowned for its high quality of life. Denver has abundant workspace options, encourages small business and artistry, and facilitates grants and apprenticeship opportunities. Home to Coors Field, the Performing Arts Complex, world-class breweries, and surrounded by unsurpassed natural scenery, Denver fosters a balance between innovation, success, and quality of life. Furthermore, the Denver International Airport is the fifth largest in the nation with easy non-stop connections to more than 230 locations across the globe. Locating the Army Futures Command in Denver would also give the Army easy access to the assets of the entire Front Range innovation ecosystem. These include the hub of national labs and academic institutions in the Boulder area, as well as national security missions, cutting-edge incubators, innovation hubs, and research consortia in Colorado Springs. We urge you to select Denver to host the Army Futures Command Headquarters. We look forward to welcoming your soldiers and their families into our community. The workforce and innovation that Denver draws will support the Army Futures Command efforts to ensure our Army is unmatched by adversaries. We are certain the Army Futures Command mission and personnel will likewise contribute to our blossoming innovation environment. With its growing high-tech economy, military and space installations, thriving aerospace industry, and access to superb universities, Denver’s location will provide the Army Futures Command the tools and partners in industry that will help grow and modernize our Army Forces. Thank you for your consideration. Download a PDF here. ###
04.30.2018	04.30.18 Gardner Visits Colorado Troops in Afghanistan Second Visit to Afghanistan as Senator Click here to download full resolution photos and B-roll. Washington D.C. — Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statement after returning from a trip to Afghanistan. Gardner began his trip meeting with top U.S. military leaders that are a part of Operation Resolute Support, and visited Fort Carson-based 2nd Infantry Brigade Combat Team, 4th Infantry Division in Khandar, Afghanistan to receive an update on their mission. Gardner also visited Bagram Air Force Base where he received an intelligence briefing from special operations command and met with Air Force personnel who are training Afghan pilots. In Kabul, Gardner received security and economic briefings from U.S. embassy personnel and discussed the upcoming Afghanistan elections with John Bass, the U.S. Ambassador to Afghanistan. “It was incredible to visit with our men and women in uniform, many of whom are from Colorado, and see the critical mission they are carrying out to fight the global war on terror and keep us safe,” said Gardner. “I am in awe of the work they do every day and am grateful I had the opportunity to thank them for their work. “It was also important to meet with our top military and intelligence officials in Afghanistan to gather additional information on Operation Resolute Support and Operation Freedom’s Sentinel. We are taking the fight to the Taliban and ISIS and I have confidence in our commanders and troops to carry out this critical mission. I pray for their success and will continue to support their mission.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
04.26.2018	04.26.18 Gardner Votes to Confirm Mike Pompeo as Secretary of State Washington D.C. — Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statement after the Senate voted to confirm Mike Pomepo as the next Secretary of State. “Mike Pompeo is eminently qualified to be our next Secretary of State and I was proud to support him today,” said Gardner. “Pompeo was first in his class at West Point, served as a member of the House Intelligence Committee, was a successful business owner, and an effective CIA Director. Unfortunately, too many of my colleagues ignored these accolades and voted against him for purely political reasons. We should not play politics with an important national security position such as Secretary of State. I look forward to working with Mike Pompeo to tackle the world’s most challenging problems, including achieving the complete, verifiable, irreversible denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula.” Last January Mike Pompeo was confirmed to be Director of the CIA by a vote of 66-32. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
04.24.2018	04.24.18 Gardner Ranked as 8th Most Bipartisan Senator Comes Month After Receiving Bipartisan Policy Center Award Washington, D.C. – The Lugar Center, led by former U.S. Senator Richard Lugar, and the McCourt School of Public Policy at Georgetown University today jointly released their new Bipartisan Index (BPI) rankings of members of Congress for 2017 and ranked Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) as the 8th most bipartisan Senator. “My job is to represent Colorado in the United States Senate and that means working across party lines to get things done for the state,” said Gardner. “Whether it’s working with Senator Bennet on a public lands issue important to the Western Slope or spearheading bipartisan legislation to bolster our state’s research and development community, I always put Colorado first. I’ll continue to fight for Colorado and work with members on both sides of the aisle to find solutions to our country’s most challenging problems.” Senator Richard Lugar (Ret.), Republican of Indiana and President of The Lugar Center said, "Senator Gardner's number 8 ranking in the Senate on the Bipartisan Index shows that he prioritized working across the aisle on legislation during 2017. His high marks demonstrate that he was willing to consider a wide spectrum of legislative ideas and to work hard to broaden the appeal of his own legislative initiatives." The BPI rankings of Congressional members in 2017, based on bill sponsorship and co-sponsorship data, allow voters to see how willing their senators and representatives have been to work across party lines on legislation. A BPI score of 0.00 represents the average score for a member over a 20-year statistical baseline. Scores above 0.00 are judged to be bipartisan, those below 0.00 are partisan. According to the Lugar Center, “the Senate Republican with the largest improvement over the previous Congress was Sen. Cory Gardner of Colorado (up 1.25 points).” The Bipartisan Index measures how often a member of Congress introduces bills that succeed in attracting co-sponsors from members of the other party, and how often they in turn co-sponsor a bill introduced from across the aisle. The Index is based on a formula applied uniformly to all members. No subjective judgments are made about individual members or bills. The Index serves as a critical resource for voters and the media and, its sponsors hope, encourages lawmakers to be more bipartisan when writing or co-sponsoring legislation. Gardner was recently awarded Bipartisan Policy Center’s Legislative Action Award for his “work to build consensus, elevate the tenor of the debate, practice civility, and advance legislation on pressing issues.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
04.24.2018	04.24.18 Gardner, Markey, Rubio, Cardin Announce Framework for New United States Policy in Asia The text of the legislation can be found here. A background paper of ARIA can be found here. Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Edward J. Markey (D-MA), Chairman and Ranking Member of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy along with Senator Marco Rubio (R-FL) and Senator Ben Cardin (D-MD) announced today that they have introduced the Asia Reassurance Initiative Act (ARIA). This legislation will serve as a policy framework to enhance U.S. leadership in the Indo-Pacific region and to demonstrate a commitment to a free and open Indo-Pacific and the rules-based international order. In 2017, Gardner and Markey held four hearings in their Subcommittee to inform ARIA. The hearing series, titled, “American Leadership in the Asia-Pacific,” included hearings on security challenges, economic opportunities, promoting human rights and the rule of law, and U.S.-China relations. “This initiative is a generational approach that will put American interests first by reassuring our allies, deterring our adversaries, and securing U.S. leadership in the region for future generations,” said Gardner. “We believe that with this bipartisan vision for our Asia policy, the Administration and Congress can be united on implementing a long-term strategy that will benefit American national security interests, promote American businesses and create jobs through trade opportunities, and project American values of respect for the human rights and freedom that have made America the shining city upon a hill.” “The rules-based international order – absolutely fundamental to global peace and security – faces significant challenges in Asia, arguably the most consequential region for the United States, said Markey.“This legislation reflects the region’s importance by addressing key challenges, including the peaceful denuclearization of North Korea, prioritizing reasonable and effective nonproliferation policies, promoting the freedom of navigation and overflight in maritime Asia, and defending human rights and the respect for democratic values.” “With China’s increasingly assertive rise, it is critical that the United States reaffirm our commitment to securing a free and open Indo-Pacific region through enhanced cooperation with our democratic partners.”said Rubio. “This important piece of legislation will do just that by creating a framework for U.S. policy throughout the Indo-Pacific region on several key areas including trade, promotion of human rights, counterterrorism programs, and many other national security priorities. To ensure the arc of history bends toward a free and open Indo-Pacific, regional democracies will have to cooperate more, which is precisely what this legislation aims to foster.” “U.S. relations with our Asian allies, partners, and adversaries will dominate the 21st century, and we need a clear set of strategic policies to bolster our national security and economic interests, framed in the values that define who we are – democratic principles, human rights, and the rule of law. I’m pleased this legislation places such a high premium on those priorities,” said Cardin. “U.S. foreign policy is always best conducted in a bipartisan fashion, and this legislation exemplifies that spirit. I thank my colleagues for their work on this legislation and look forward to its debate in the Senate.” ###
04.23.2018	04.23.18 Gardner Votes Yes for Mike Pompeo in Foreign Relations Committee Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) voted yes in the Senate Foreign Relations Committee Monday evening to recommend the Senate confirm CIA Director Mike Pompeo as Secretary of State. “CIA Director Mike Pompeo is extremely qualified to be Secretary of State and the opposition to him by some of my Democratic colleagues is politics at its worst,” said Gardner. “The myriad of sudden supposed concerns or questions about his record in order to oppose him for such an important diplomatic role for this country is truly unfortunate. He has been an effective CIA Director, graduated first in his class from West Point, and previously served on the House Intelligence Committee. I have had the opportunity to get to know him well over the last few years and look forward to working closely with him as our next Secretary of State.” Last January Mike Pompeo was confirmed to be Director of the CIA by a vote of 66-32. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
04.23.2018	04.23.18 Gardner, Bennet Cosponsor Bipartisan Bill to Legalize Hemp Washington, D.C. – Colorado U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R) and Michael Bennet (D) this week cosponsored the bipartisan Hemp Farming Act of 2018, which would legalize and clearly define hemp as an agricultural commodity and remove it from the list of controlled substances. The legislation also would give states the opportunity to become the primary regulators of hemp, allow hemp researchers to apply for competitive federal grants from the U.S. Department of Agriculture, ensure growers in the West can access water, and make hemp farmers eligible to apply for crop insurance. “Removing industrial hemp from the Controlled Substances Act is a commonsense move which would create jobs and get the government out of the way of Colorado’s farmers and agricultural industry,” Gardner said. “Hemp has the potential to be a major boon to Colorado agriculture, giving farmers another viable and profitable option for their fields.” “It’s past time for Washington to recognize the growth of hemp as an agricultural commodity and legalize it nationwide,” Bennet said. “This bipartisan legislation builds on the successful pilot program we created in the 2014 Farm Bill, eliminating federal barriers and providing certainty for states and hemp growers. We’ll continue working with Senate leadership on behalf of Colorado’s hemp farmers and entrepreneurs to pass this bill.” “As the sponsor of establishing hemp regulations in 2013 and various measures since and actually becoming a grower in 2017, I am thrilled that Colorado is leading the nation in this burgeoning new industry,” Colorado State Senator Don Coram said. “The only road block has been the Federal status of being a schedule one substance. Senator Bennet and Senator Gardner have been champions for the hemp industry. Their joint effort on the new proposals will be the culmination of years of effort that is the major piece needed to be successful in this new endeavor.” “We are excited to learn that Senators Michael Bennet and Cory Gardner are stepping up to co-sponsor The Hemp Farming Act of 2018,” Montrose Economic Development Corporation Executive Director Sandy Head said. “When passed, this bill will have a tremendous economic impact our agriculture sector and our economy as a whole. It will remove the barrier to financing for hemp farmers, manufacturers and entrepreneurs and will allow for the development of innovative technology using hemp which in turn will lead to job creation. There is tremendous opportunity for hemp here on the Western Slope, and their leadership and support is greatly appreciated.” In 2017, Gardner and Bennet introduced the Hemp Water Rights Act to ensure farmers across the West can use the water they own through private water rights to grow industrial hemp in states where it is legal. The bill’s language was included in the FY18 Senate Energy and Water appropriations package. ###
04.20.2018	04.20.18 Gardner, Bennet Introduce Bill to Provide Mental Health Support to Agricultural Communities Report finds agricultural workers have higher suicide rate than any other occupation Washington, D.C. – Colorado U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R) and Michael Bennet (D) this week introduced bipartisan legislation to provide farmers, ranchers, and agricultural workers with critical mental health support and resources. “As a fifth generation Coloradan who still lives in a tiny town on the Eastern Plains of Colorado that is totally dependent on agriculture, I see the hardships our farmers and ranchers experience every day,” Gardner said. “When I was a kid growing up in the 1980s, I remember Colorado farmers and ranchers facing tough times, and I’m afraid that we are seeing that same thing happen again. My friends and neighbors are filing for bankruptcy, being forced to sell their family farms, taking on more debt, and struggling to provide for their families. These stories break my heart and serve as a reminder that we need to be there for our farmers and support our rural communities during times of hardship, and that is exactly what the FARMERS FIRST Act does. This bipartisan legislation will make sure our agriculture community doesn’t feel abandoned and alone. The forgotten men and women of America must know that we have their backs, that their communities have their backs, and that we will always strive to help them. While this legislation is a good start, more must be done and I will continue to work with my colleagues on solutions to help our agriculture community.” “During meetings and listening sessions around the state, we’ve heard about the challenges and uncertainty felt in rural Colorado,” Bennet said. “Tackling this challenge requires a comprehensive approach that includes access to health and wellness services for farmers and ranchers. I’ll continue working with my colleagues across the aisle to ensure America’s agricultural communities have the resources they need and deserve.” “This nation’s farmers and ranchers have served our country well, and during stressful economic times such as this, we must provide adequate services to assist our producers and their communities,” said Colorado Commissioner of Agriculture Don Brown. “When a farmer and rancher is facing a financial crisis, it can create an emotional toll on every aspect of life. From paying bills, to feeding their children, caring for the livestock and crops, retirement options, and even what they will be able to leave their heirs, the worry and anxiety can be overwhelming. The Farmers First Act can be a valuable resource for those who are facing tough times whether it is related to this economic downturn or the day-to-day stresses of our industry.” “Rocky Mountain Farmers Union sends its thanks to Sen. Bennet and Sen. Gardner for joining together in bipartisan fashion to support the FARMERS FIRST Act,” said Rocky Mountain Farmers Union President Dale McCall. “At a time when farmers and ranchers are facing unstable markets, low commodity prices, and drastic weather, legislation like this helps bring certainty and stability to those who grow the food, feed, fiber, and fuel that sustain us all.” A 2016 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) study found agricultural workers have a higher suicide rate than any other occupation. To assist these farmers in crisis, the Facilitating Accessible Resources for Mental Health and Encouraging Rural Solutions For Immediate Response to Stressful Times (FARMERS FIRST) would provide seed funding through the U.S. Department of Agriculture to state departments of agriculture, state extension services, and non-profits to establish helplines, provide suicide prevention training for farm advocates, create support groups, and reestablish the Farm and Ranch Stress Assistance Network. In addition to these resources, the bill would establish a Farm and Ranch Stress Assessment Committee to better understand how agricultural workers’ mental health impacts rural development and provide recommendations for addressing mental health care needs within the agriculture community. This bill is endorsed by the National Milk Producers Federation, National Corn Growers Association, National Farmers Union, National Family Farm Coalition, National Farm Medicine Center, Farm Aid, Female Farmer Project, National Rural Health Association, American Soybean Association, National Association of State Departments of Agriculture, Rural and Agricultural Council of America, U.S. Cattlemen’s Association, American Agri-Women, National Farmers Union, and National Young Farmers Coalition. Read more about what agriculture industry partners are saying about the FARMERS FIRST Act HERE. The bill text is available HERE. ###
04.20.2018	04.20.18 Gardner Announces Joint Forces Space Component Staff to Move to Schriever Air Force Base Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today announced the Secretary of the Air Force is relocating Joint Forces Space Component staff to Schriever Air Force Base, Colorado. According to the Air Force, the move “is part of a restructure of Joint Forces Space Component.” “This is great news for Colorado and I am excited to welcome additional Joint Force Space Component personnel to our state,” said Gardner. “I have visited with General Raymond, Commander of the Joint Forces Space Component, and am confident in his ability to lead our men and women as we become more involved in space and cyberspace operations. This is an important part of our national defense and I will continue to work with the Air Force to support the critical work our men and women are doing at Schriever Air Force Base. This is yet another sign that Colorado truly is first in space.” The Air Force provided the additional information on the relocation: “In December 2017, Gen Raymond assumed the Joint Forces Space Component Commander position in addition to his position of Commander for Air Force Space Command located at Peterson Air Force Base. Consolidating the Joint Forces Space Component Staff with their commander will ensure seamless command and control of joint space forces. “This basing action will move 148 Joint Force Space Component personnel to the National Space Defense Center, located within 30 minutes of the Joint Forces Spaces Component Commander. Through the Strategic Basing process, the Air Force performed an analysis and a site survey and concluded moving to Schriever Air Force Base offers the best option to meet requirements. Other locations did not meet proximity criteria and/or did not have available space to construct the requisite facilities. Relocation to Schriever Air Force base meets the operational requirements for proximity to the Commander and collocation with the National Space Defense Center, as well as leveraging available protection level 2 areas. “Personnel will begin relocation from Vandenberg to Schriever in May of 2018 with an expected full staff in place by September of 2019.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
04.19.2018	04.19.18 Gardner, Bennet Resolution Celebrating NORAD’s 60th Anniversary Passes Senate Washington, DC – A Senate Resolution introduced by Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Michael Bennet (D-CO) passed the Senate on Wednesday. The Resolution is in celebration of the 60th Anniversary of the North American Aerospace Defense Command (NORAD). NORAD, which is headquartered at Peterson Air Force Base in Colorado Springs, provides aerospace and maritime warning for the entire North American continent. NORAD will formally celebrate the anniversary during a showcase of events on May 11th and 12th in Colorado Springs. “Coloradans are proud of our state’s military heritage and the work NORAD carries out for our national security,” Gardner said. “Sixty years of defending this nation is a remarkable achievement that should not go unnoticed. I’ll continue to do everything I can in Congress to help support the critical work they do each day.” “As the world’s only binational command, NORAD is a model for collective defense,” Bennet said. “The vigilant work of the men and women of NORAD is critical to the security of North America. We will continue to support NORAD’s mission as it evolves to meet our changing security environment in the decades to come.” Full Text of Resolution Whereas 2018 marks the 60th anniversary of the creation of the North American Aerospace Defense Command, commonly referred to as “NORAD”; Whereas the United States and Canada, bound together by our history, our values, our economy, our environment, and our resolve to improve the lives of our citizens, have long enjoyed a close relationship that has allowed for continuous collaboration, building a prosperous future for the people of both countries; Whereas the United States and Canada have stood shoulder to shoulder in defense of peace and security for more than 100 years, as partners and allies in World War I, World War II, the Korean War, throughout the Cold War, in Afghanistan, and as part of the Global Coalition against Daesh, working together to advance our shared values; Whereas, as indispensable allies in the defense of North America, on May 12, 1958, the United States and Canada signed an official agreement creating the bi-national North American Aerospace Defense Command and formally acknowledged the mutual commitment of both countries to defend their citizens from air domain attacks; Whereas this cooperation is an important element of United States and Canadian contributions to the collective defense provided by the members of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization; Whereas the North American Aerospace Defense Command enjoys a unique status as the only fully integrated bi-national military command; Whereas the North American Aerospace Defense Command is headquartered at Peterson Air Force Base, Colorado Springs, Colorado, with three subordinate region headquarters located at Elmendorf Air Force Base, Alaska, for the Alaskan NORAD Region (ANR); Tyndall Air Force Base, Florida, for the Continental NORAD Region (CONR); and Canadian Forces Base Winnipeg, Manitoba, for the Canadian NORAD Region (CANR), along with three subordinate sector command centers at Joint Base Lewis-McChord, Washington, for the Western Air Defense Sector (WADS); Rome, New York, for the Eastern Air Defense Sector (EADS); and Canadian Forces Base North Bay, Ontario, for the Canadian Air Defense Sector (CADS); Whereas the missions of the North American Aerospace Defense Command are to provide aerospace warning, aerospace control, and maritime warning to defend North America; Whereas the North American Aerospace Defense Command and the United States Northern Command current operations center is connected to a worldwide system of sensors that provides the Commander of the North American Aerospace Defense Command with a common operating picture of aerospace and maritime threats; Whereas the Cheyenne Mountain Air Force Station hosts the Alternate Command Center for the North American Aerospace Defense Command and United States Northern Command; Whereas the Commander of the North American Aerospace Defense Command provides integrated tactical warning and attack assessments to the Government of the United States and the Government of Canada; Whereas the North American Aerospace Defense Command uses a network of space-based and ground-based sensors; airborne radars, fighters, and helicopters; and ground-based air defense systems to detect, intercept, and, if necessary, engage air domain threats to North America; Whereas the May 2006 renewal of the North American Aerospace Defense Command Agreement added a maritime warning mission to the slate of responsibilities of the Command, which entails a shared awareness and understanding of the ongoing activities conducted in United States and Canadian maritime approaches, maritime areas, and inland waterways; Whereas the North American Aerospace Defense Command provides continuous surveillance and defense of North American airspace from further airborne aggression or attack, as occurred on September 11, 2001, through the ongoing Operation NOBLE EAGLE mission; Whereas the North American Aerospace Defense Command will continue to evolve to address the ever-changing nature of the threats to North America and adapt to future shared security interests; Whereas the outstanding service of United States and Canadian servicemembers from Active Duty and Reserve Component forces and civilians serving at the North American Aerospace Defense Command is central to the ability of North America to confront and successfully defeat aerospace threats of the 21st century; and Whereas the continuation of this successful relationship between the United States and Canada through the North American Aerospace Defense Command is paramount to the future security of the people of the United States and Canada: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the Senate— (1) recognizes the contributions made by the North American Aerospace Defense Command to the security of North America; (2) commemorates 60 years of excellence and distinctive service by the men and women of the North American Aerospace Defense Command; (3) reaffirms the critical missions of the North American Aerospace Defense Command headquartered at Peterson Air Force Base, Colorado Springs, Colorado; and (4) supports the role of the North American Aerospace Defense Command in providing binational defense of the United States and Canada in the 21st century. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
04.18.2018	04.18.18 Gardner, Wyden, Paul, Markey Press DHS on Foreign Cell Phone Surveillance Devices Used in U.S. Washington, D.C. – U.S. Sens. Cory Gardner, R-Colo., Ron Wyden, D-Ore., Rand Paul, R-Ky., and Edward J. Markey, D-Mass., today called on the Department of Homeland Security to release unclassified documents with new details about threats posed by foreign government use of cellular surveillance devices in Washington D.C. and other U.S. cities. “The American people have a legitimate interest in understanding the extent to which U.S. telephone networks are vulnerable to surveillance and are being actively exploited by hostile actors,” the senators wrote, in a letter to the Department of Homeland Security. By tricking mobile devices and rerouting mobile communications, Stingrays and other cell phone surveillance devices can reveal the location of the cellphone in question, and even eavesdrop on calls or plant malware. The senators asked DHS to release a PowerPoint presentation that contains additional details about the use of rogue IMSI catchers in the U.S. The presentation is unclassified but marked “for official use only.” The letter can be found here. ###
04.13.2018	04.13.18 Gardner Statement on U.S. Strikes on Syria Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, released the following statement after President Trump’s address to the nation regarding the U.S. response to Syria’s use of chemical weapons: “The use of chemical weapons on civilians, including children, is one of the most abhorrent acts imaginable, and the United States and its allies cannot sit back and allow it to continue. The precision targeting of military targets are needed in the fight of good versus evil, a fight of the United States versus the dark edge of humanity. “These latest actions need to be part of a comprehensive strategy that secure lasting peace in Syria. We must continue to build a coalition of allies and partners in the region that share our goal of protecting the innocent people being harmed in Syria by this monstrous regime.” ###
04.13.2018	04.13.18 Gardner Protects Colorado’s Legal Marijuana Industry Receives Commitment from President Trump to Support Legislation to Protect States’ Rights Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statement regarding the current status of the Administration’s policy toward legal marijuana. In response to the Department of Justice’s January 4th announcement that Attorney General Jeff Sessions had rescinded the Cole Memorandum, Senator Gardner placed a hold on all DOJ nominees until he received a commitment that Colorado’s rights would not be infringed. After positive discussions with DOJ, Gardner lifted some of his holds but kept the rest in place until he received a full commitment that the guidelines of the Cole Memo would be respected. “Since the campaign, President Trump has consistently supported states’ rights to decide for themselves how best to approach marijuana,” said Gardner. “Late Wednesday, I received a commitment from the President that the Department of Justice’s rescission of the Cole memo will not impact Colorado’s legal marijuana industry. Furthermore, President Trump has assured me that he will support a federalism-based legislative solution to fix this states’ rights issue once and for all. “Because of these commitments, I have informed the Administration that I will be lifting my remaining holds on Department of Justice nominees. My colleagues and I are continuing to work diligently on a bipartisan legislative solution that can pass Congress and head to the President’s desk to deliver on his campaign position.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
04.10.2018	04.10.18 Gardner Talks Colorado Opioid Crisis at Republican Leadership Press Conference Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) spoke today at the weekly Senate Republican leadership press conference about time he recently spent in Colorado holding roundtables on the opioid crisis. Gardner held roundtable discussions at San Luis Valley Health in Alamosa and Swedish Medical Center in Englewood and met with physicians, nurses, pharmacists, local leaders and officials, and those impacted by the opioid crisis. (Click here or on the image above to view Gardner’s remarks.) ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
04.06.2018	04.06.18 Gardner Touts Anvil Points Money for Western Colorado Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today held a press conference in Grand Junction to tout the millions of dollars the Department of Interior will be distributing to Garfield, Rio Blanco, Moffat, and Mesa Counties. The long overdue funding is from the gas and oil lease revenues that were collected through 2008 to clean up the former Anvil Points federal oil shale research site. The money is excess funding that was never needed for cleanup purposes and was not returned to the local communities. “I was thrilled to be in Grand Junction today with local leaders and county commissioners to tout the millions of dollars being returned to Colorado counties,” said Gardner. “I have worked to ensure this money would be returned to Colorado for years and I was excited to celebrate this success with our community on the Western Slope today. I appreciate Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke and Deputy Secretary David Bernhardt’s work to make this happen and know our local communities will benefit from this decision.” For years, Gardner, along with Senator Bennet (D-CO) and Congressman Tipton (CO-3), worked to return the oil and gas lease revenues to Northwest Colorado. Most recently, they introduced an amendment in 2016 that would have forced the federal government to return the revenues. In 2017, Gardner and Bennet sent letters to Secretary Zinke urging him to pursue an administrative solution to provide the revenues. The funding was officially announced in March. See the announcement here. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
03.22.2018	03.22.18 Gardner, Bennet Secure Fire Funding Fix in Omnibus Spending Bill Washington, D.C. – After years of work, Colorado U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R) and Michael Bennet (D) today secured a long-term fire funding fix in the omnibus spending bill being considered in Congress this week to end fire borrowing and improve how the federal government pays to fight wildfires. “I have been working on ending the practice of fire borrowing throughout my time in the House and Senate, and today’s announcement that our bipartisan fire funding fix is included in the spending bill is good news for Colorado,” Gardner said. “Year after year, much of the West is forced to deal with horrible wildfires that burn millions of acres, and funding that should be applied to fire prevention and mitigation projects is instead spent by the Forest Service fighting these fires. Our provision will ensure the Forest Service has the necessary funding for cleanup and prevention efforts that will help reduce the amount of catastrophic wildfires the Forest Service has to fight.” “The Forest Service plays an important role in Colorado’s economy —affecting our water supply, outdoor recreation, and timber industry,” Bennet said. “Its ability to budget effectively and efficiently is critical to our economic success. Because of the pressures that wildfires have brought to the West, as well as the challenges of climate change and development, the antiquated way we pay for firefighting needed dramatic change. This bipartisan fix transforms and modernizes the Forest Service’s capacity to restore forest health and mitigate and fight wildfires. It allows the Forest Service to complete the entirety of its mission, without being undermined by the pressures of fire.” Unlike for other natural disasters, where agencies can draw from an emergency fund to pay for disaster response, the U.S. Forest Service and Interior Department do not have access to disaster funds and are forced to "fire borrow" – or take money from fire prevention and other non-fire accounts to pay to fight fires. The deal secured in this week’s omnibus, based on the framework from Bennet and Gardner’s Wildfire Disaster Funding Act, restructures how the Forest Service pays to fight wildfires, putting an end to fire borrowing and providing much-needed budget certainty through Fiscal Year 2027. The fire fix is two-fold: It freezes the ten-year average cost used to budget for wildfires at Fiscal Year 2015 levels, and also establishes a separate account for fire suppression that can be used once the cost exceeds these levels. The deal also includes conservation priorities that Bennet and Gardner have cosponsored, such as the reauthorization of the Federal Land Transaction Facilitation Act (FLTFA) that funds high-priority land conservation projects in Western states, and a two-year reauthorization of Secure Rural Schools. In 2017, Gardner and Bennet pressed Senate leadership several times to include a fire fix in previous funding packages. As Ranking Member of the Senate Subcommittee on Conservation, Forestry, and Natural Resources, Bennet also worked with Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue on the issue, and delivered a speech on the Senate floor. Gardner has also highlighted the need to address this issue in Senate Energy and Natural Resource Energy Committee hearings. ###
03.21.2018	03.21.18 Gardner-Backed Legislation to Combat Sex Trafficking Passes Senate Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today helped pass H.R.1865, the Allow States and Victims to Fight Online Sex Trafficking Act. Gardner was a cosponsor of the companion legislation in the Senate, which would clarify existing law that was shielding certain websites and certain individuals that were knowingly facilitating sex trafficking. “This bipartisan legislation gives the victims of these crimes the justice they deserve against the criminals that carry out these dreadful acts,” said Gardner. “We need to do everything we can to combat sex trafficking and this legislation that will soon be law is a sensible step in the right direction for the victims.” The legislation was prompted after Senate investigations of the classifieds/advertisement website backpage.com. Criminals were using the website to post advertisements that led to sex trafficking and prostitution and the website was aware that it was being permitted to happen and did not take appropriate action to stop it. Under current interpretation of existing law, the victims of sex trafficking could seek civil action against the individuals but not against the websites facilitating this action. This legislation would give the victims the opportunity to hold these website or third party facilitators accountable. Additional information about the legislation can be found here. It passed the House 388-25 on February 27th. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
03.17.2018	03.17.18 Gardner, Bennet Celebrate Commissioning of USS Colorado Washington, D.C. – Colorado U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R) and Michael Bennet (D) today delivered remarks at Naval Submarine Base New London for the commissioning of the USS Colorado, the newest, most advanced Virginia-class attack submarine in the U.S. Navy. Excerpt from Gardner’s remarks: “The USS Colorado is second to none in ability, and will be a major source of deterrence to the myriad threats we face around the globe. I want to again thank the men and women in uniform, and the crew that will man this magnificent vessel. You are brave, disciplined, and professional. And as the courageous explorer who founded Pike’s Peak, Zebulon Pike, exclaimed, ‘May Heaven be propitious, and smile on the cause of my country.’ Remember that, as you embark upon your journey on the high seas. Remember that, as you stand up to tyranny and those looking to do us harm. And know this: your Nation and our Great State is proud of you.” Excerpt from Bennet’s remarks: “The people of Colorado are remarkably proud to know that, for decades to come, people in ports around the world will say, ‘There goes the Colorado.’ In the months and years ahead, we will be standing behind the USS Colorado and her crew as she silently protects our interests around the world. From monitoring undersea cables, to tracking the ever more capable submarines of our adversaries, to protecting our interests in the South China Sea and the Arctic, she will lead you on missions that shape this century.” A video of the remarks and more information about the USS Colorado are available HERE. ###
03.15.2018	03.15.18 Gardner Hosts South Korean Foreign Minister Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy, today met with the Republic of Korea’s Foreign Minister, H.E. Kyung-Wha Kang. In his capacity as Subcommittee Chairman, Gardner welcomed the Foreign Minister to the United States and hosted a discussion with several other members of the Foreign Relations Committee. “It was an honor to host a discussion with Minister Kang,” said Gardner. “We discussed ways to strengthen the U.S.-ROK alliance and the need to work closely together to achieve the complete, verifiable, irreversible denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula. In our discussion today it became even more clear that the sanctions legislation I passed is having a significant impact that continues to put pressure on the regime. I thank Minister Kang for graciously accepting the invitation to meet today and look forward to working with her in the future.” Senator Gardner has been the leader in the Senate on efforts to bring a peaceful denuclearization to the Korean Peninsula. Gardner is the author of the Leverage to Enhance Effective Diplomacy Act (LEED). This bipartisan legislation requires the President to impose an economic embargo on North Korea and its enablers. Additionally, it requires the President to block any entity or financial institution implicated in any significant trade with North Korea from the U.S. financial system. Gardner is also the author of the North Korea Sanctions Policy and Enhancement Act, signed into law in February of 2016. The legislation marked the first time Congress imposed stand-alone mandatory sanctions on North Korea. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
03.13.2018	03.13.18 Gardner, Bennet, Tipton Announce Allocation of Anvil Points Funding to Colorado Communities Washington, D.C. – U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO), Michael Bennet (D-CO), and Congressman Scott Tipton (R-CO) announced on Tuesday that, at their request, the Department of Interior will be distributing approximately $18 million to Garfield, Rio Blanco, Moffat, and Mesa Counties. The long overdue funding is from the gas and oil lease revenues that were collected through 2008 to clean up the former Anvil Points federal oil shale research site. This money allocated today is excess funding that was never needed for cleanup purposes and was not returned to the local communities. “Today’s announcement is great news for Western Colorado,” Gardner said. “Since his confirmation process, I’ve worked closely with Secretary Zinke urging Interior to release the funding, and I appreciate the Secretary and the department for coming through with what will be millions of dollars for these Colorado communities. This is their money – not the federal government’s, and each county can now use this funding for how they think is best for their region.” “Colorado communities waited far too long for the government to release these revenues, and we are glad they will finally receive what is rightfully theirs,” Bennet said. “I’ve been working toward this outcome since arriving in the Senate in 2009. Now that Secretary Zinke said ‘the check is in the mail,’ millions of dollars can be put to use by communities on the Western Slope.” “I have worked for several years to ensure that royalty payments from the Anvil Points oil shale and research facility are returned to Northwest Colorado. Secretary Zinke’s announcement during today’s Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee hearing signals the end to a very long process, and I could not be more thrilled,” Tipton said. “This money rightfully belongs to Northwest Colorado, and I am thankful for Secretary Zinke and Deputy Secretary Bernhardt’s leadership on this matter. I look forward to seeing the state disperse the funds to Garfield, Mesa, Moffat and Rio Blanco Counties, so local leaders can dedicate resources to enhancing their communities and improving the lives of all who live there.” “The people of Colorado have waited far too long for this payment,” Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke said. “On behalf of the Department and the Administration, we look forward to working with you in the future to continue delivering results to the people of Colorado.” For years, Gardner, Bennet and Tipton have worked to return the oil and gas lease revenues to Northwest Colorado. Most recently, they introduced an amendment in 2016 that would have forced the federal government to return the revenues. In 2017, Gardner and Bennet sent letters to Secretary Zinke urging him to pursue an administrative solution to provide the revenues. ###
03.09.2018	03.09.18 ICYMI: Gardner Joins Morning Joe and NPR to Discuss North Korea WASHINGTON, – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity, joined Morning Joe and NPR’S Morning Edition today to discuss the latest developments on North Korea. Click here to view the interview. On Morning Joe, Gardner said, “We are here because the President’s pressure has worked, but the next step is very very significant. And our number one goal has to be the complete, irreversible, verifiable denuclearization. …I spoke to the President last night and it sounds like that is exactly what he intends to do.” You can also listen to Gardner’s interview with NPR’s Morning Edition here. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
03.08.2018	03.08.18 Gardner Urges President Trump to Continue Maximum Pressure Campaign on North Korea Washington, DC – As a high-level delegation from the Republic of Korea is visiting Washington to discuss their recent visit to the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (DPRK), Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) and his colleagues on the Senate Foreign Relations and Senate Armed Services Committees today sent a letter urging President Trump “to continue to vigorously implement the maximum pressure campaign” against the DPRK until the goal of “complete, verifiable, and irreversible dismantlement of the DPRK’s nuclear and ballistic missile programs” is met. Senators Jim Inhofe (R-OK), James Risch (R-ID), Marco Rubio (R-FL), Ron Johnson (R-WI), and Todd Young (R-IN) also signed the letter. A PDF is available here. The letter reads in full: Dear Mr. President: We write urging you to continue to vigorously implement the maximum pressure campaign against the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (DPRK), concurrent with any possible discussions with the DPRK with the explicit aim of denuclearization. This should include imposing additional unilateral sanctions against the regime and conducting regularly scheduled military exercises with our allies in the region, until such time that there is complete, verifiable, and irreversible dismantlement of the DPRK’s nuclear and ballistic missile programs. We must also continue to coordinate our DPRK policy closely with Seoul and Tokyo. We are encouraged by reports that during a visit this week by a delegation from the Republic of Korea, the DPRK has allegedly agreed to talks with the United States regarding the denuclearization of the DPRK. The DPRK has violated numerous United Nations Security Council Resolutions with their illicit nuclear and ballistic programs, including by conducting six nuclear weapons tests, and has violated all previous agreements with the United States that sought to peacefully end these programs. We believe that the U.S.-led sanctions campaign against the DPRK is essential to building the necessary leverage to incentivize the regime to peacefully relinquish its weapons of mass destruction. Congress has played a leading role in constructing the sanctions regime against the DPRK, including the passage of the landmark North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act (NKSPEA), which was signed into law in February 2016 and was the first standalone legislation to impose mandatory sanctions against the DPRK and its enablers. The DPRK must know that the U.S. and the international community can significantly ramp up sanctions pressure. According to the Foundation for Defense of Democracies, since the passage of NKSPEA, the DPRK went from being the 8th-most sanctioned nation by the United States to being only the 4th-most sanctioned. We must continue to close every avenue of commercial activity with the regime, including by targeting businesses, financial institutions, and third-country nationals for secondary sanctions. These businesses must know that the cost of doing business with the DPRK is global financial isolation. The DPRK must also know that while the United States and its partners are seeking to solve this crisis peacefully, we will not hesitate to defend the U.S. homeland, our troops in the region, and our treaty allies, with overwhelming military force. The military option must remain on the table, it must be robust, and DPRK must be made fully aware of the consequences of their actions. The regime also routinely and grossly violates the human rights of its people, including by holding up to 200,000 of its citizens in brutal labor camps, akin to the Soviet GULAG system. The DPRK is directly responsible for the death of Otto Warmbier, an American citizen abducted and tortured to death by the regime. We commend Vice President Pence for inviting Mr. Fred Warmbier, Otto’s father, to the opening ceremony of the Olympic Games in PyeongChang last month. We ask that you continue to raise the human rights of the North Korean people with full vigor in appropriate fora. Mr. President, when it comes to the North Korean regime, we must verify before we trust. While we must take any credible opportunity to talk with Pyongyang about denuclearization, we must also never forget that the DPRK continues to represent a grave threat to the United States, our allies, and global peace and stability. We ask that you respond to Congress in a timely manner regarding the Administration’s strategy to engage the DPRK and your plan for a robust implementation of the maximum pressure campaign against this heinous regime. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
03.08.2018	03.08.18 Gardner Statement on Tariff Announcement WASHINGTON, – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statement regarding the President signing a proclamation on steel and aluminum imports: “I think the President is right to say that we need fair trade agreements, but I have concerns that these tariffs will not have the intended impact that the President is hoping to achieve, which is a growing economy and higher wages for all Americans across the country,” said Gardner. “I am disappointed in this announcement and will be working with the businesses that may be potentially impacted by this decision along with the Administration about how best to continue our joint efforts to create jobs and spur new growth.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
03.07.2018	03.07.18 Gardner, Bennet Introduce Bill to Fund Innovative Approaches to Combat Opioid Crisis Washington, D.C. - Colorado U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R) and Michael Bennet (D), along with a bipartisan group of lawmakers, today introduced the Alternatives to Opioids (ALTO) in the Emergency Department Act to fund innovative approaches to combat the opioid epidemic. "We all know people that have been impacted by the opioid epidemic in Colorado, and we need to look at every possible action we can take to fight it," Gardner said. "While much more needs to be done to stop this problem in our communities, this legislation takes a step in the right direction by creating an avenue to expand models that lower the use of opioids in our emergency departments to treat pain with alternative methods that have been successful in Colorado as well as other states." "In Colorado, our communities are being ripped apart by opioid addiction, but they are also seeing promise in new approaches to combat this epidemic," Bennet said. "We need to invest in data-driven, innovative programs like the Colorado Opioid Safety Collaborative Pilot-which has successfully used alternatives to opioids as first-line treatment for pain. Let's pass this bipartisan bill to expand these programs and help decrease opioid usage across the country." Colorado has the 12th highest rate of opioid abuse and misuse of any state, and despite national efforts, the opioid crisis is showing no signs of abating. A report issued this week by the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) found that emergency room visits stemming from opioid overdoses rose nationally by approximately 30 percent between July 2016 and September 2017. The report noted that abuse is affecting all age groups and all geographic regions in the nation, with the acting head of the CDC saying the epidemic is getting "worse." As a first line of defense against the opioid epidemic, emergency rooms are well positioned to serve as laboratories of innovation. At the same time, because of the short-term nature of the care they provide, emergency rooms are often highly susceptible to "doctor shopping," where patients seek to obtain multiple prescriptions for misuse or abuse. Eager to try fresh approaches to address this epidemic, emergency departments in several states have developed effective programs that have drastically reduced the use of opioids. The Colorado Opioid Safety Collaborative Pilot-the result of a partnership between the Colorado Hospital Association and American College of Emergency Physicians-decreased emergency department opioid usage by 36 percent in just six months. The Alternatives to Opioids (ALTO) in the Emergency Department Act would establish a demonstration program to test alternative pain management protocols to limit the use of opioids in hospital emergency departments. The legislation would provide grant funding to build these programs. Following the completion of the program, the Secretary of Health and Human Services would submit a report to Congress on results and issue recommendations for broader implementation. The Senate bill was also introduced by U.S. Senators Cory Booker (D-NJ) and Shelly Moore Capito (R-WV). The House companion was introduced by U.S. Representatives Diana DeGette (D-CO-01), Scott R. Tipton (R-CO-03), Bill Pascrell, Jr. (D-NJ-09), and David B. McKinley (R-WV-01).
03.07.2018	03.07.18 Gardner, Alexander, Colleagues Introduce Bipartisan, Bicameral Legislation to Help Restore and Rebuild Our National Parks Say bill will help pay for $11 billion National Park maintenance backlog, including buildings, campgrounds, trails and water systems WASHINGTON, – Senators Cory Gardner (R-Colo.) and Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.), along with eight of their colleagues, today introduced a bipartisan, bicameral bill that will use revenues from energy production on federal lands to help pay for the over $11 billion maintenance backlog at our national parks. Gardner, Alexander, and their colleagues have been working with Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke on the National Park Restoration Act, which will help restore and rebuild roads, buildings, campgrounds, trails and water systems in the country’s national parks for the next generation of visitors. U.S. Senators Angus King (I-Maine), Steve Daines (R-Mont.), Martin Heinrich (D-N.M.), Shelley Moore Capito (R-W.Va.) Joe Manchin (D- W.Va.), and Thom Tillis (R-N.C.) and Representatives Mike Simpson (R-Idaho) and Kurt Schrader (D-Ore.) are original cosponsors. “Coloradans know firsthand how important it is to make timely investments and infrastructure upgrades to our parks,” said Senator Gardner. “This bipartisan legislation provides the funding necessary to help address the billions of dollars in deferred maintenance that the park system is currently facing in Colorado and across the country. It’s time to show our love to our beloved national parks.” “This legislation will help address the over $11billion maintenance backlog at our national parks, including the $215 million backlog of projects in the Great Smoky Mountains National Park,” Senator Alexander said. “The Great Smoky Mountains National Park is one of America’s greatest treasures – and it has a tremendous economic impact in East Tennessee, attracting nearly twice the visitors of any other national park. Addressing the maintenance backlog will help attract even more visitors and create more jobs for Tennesseans. We must continue to work together to find solutions to the many challenges facing our public lands, and this legislation takes an important step toward doing that.” "?Infrastructure is an investment, not merely an expense. And every dollar we put in to rebuilding our parks, will help bolster the gateway communities that rely on park visitation for economic vitality. Since the early days of my confirmation, I've been talking with members of the House and Senate about how we can use energy revenue to rebuild and revitalize our parks and communities," said U.S. Secretary of the Interior Ryan Zinke.? "Infrastructure is also about access for all Americans. Not all visitors to our parks? ?have the? ?ability to hike with a 30-pound pack and camp in the wilderness miles away from utilities. ? ?In order for families with young kids?, ?elderly grandparents?, or persons with disabilities? to enjoy the parks, we need to rebuild basic infrastructure like roads, trails, lodges, restrooms and visitors centers. This bill is the largest investment in National Parks in our nation's history. This is not a republican or democrat issue, this is an American issue, and ?I think that the bipartisan body of lawmakers who put this bill forward is proof." The National Park Restoration Act: · Creates the National Park Restoration Fund to provide mandatory funding for the high-priority deferred maintenance needs that support critical infrastructure and visitor services at our national parks. · Provides mandatory funding for the maintenance backlog on top of annual appropriations for operations and construction at the National Park Service. · The fund receives 50 percent of onshore and offshore revenues from energy production on federal lands over expected amounts that are not already allocated to other purposes. · Protects payments to states, the Land and Water Conservation Fund, the Reclamation Fund, and all other existing uses of onshore and offshore revenues. These existing uses will receive all of their funding before the National Park Restoration Fund receives any funding. The backlog of infrastructure projects at our national parks can limit access and impair visitor experiences and recreation opportunities, and without additional funding, the backlog could continue to grow. The National Park Service (NPS) maintenance backlog is nearly four times what NPS receives in annual appropriations. In Fiscal Year 2017 the NPS’ deferred maintenance needs were $11.6 billion – that same fiscal year, NPS received $2.9 million in annual appropriations. President Trump and Secretary Zinke have made addressing the growing maintenance backlog a top priority. ###
03.07.2018	03.07.18 Gardner, Bennet Announce $2 Million TIGER Grant for Ute Mountain Ute Tribe Washington, DC – Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Michael Bennet (D-CO) today announced the Department of Transportation has awarded the Ute Mountain Ute Tribe a $2 million Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) grant for a project aimed at improving access and safety along a 2.5-mile segment of US Highway 160. “This is great news for the Ute Mountain Ute Tribe as these Department of Transportation funds will help make critical upgrades on this stretch of highway,” said Gardner. “Going forward, I’ll continue my efforts to ensure our local communities across Colorado have adequate resources from the federal government and ensure no corner of Colorado is ever forgotten.” “For over a decade, the Ute Mountain Ute tribe has advocated for this project to modernize the roads in its community,” said Bennet. “We applaud the tribe’s efforts to secure this grant and commit to working with Southwest Colorado to help further federal investment in our local communities.” ###
03.07.2018	03.07.18 ICYMI: Gardner Joins CBS This Morning To Discuss North Korea and Trade Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity, joined CBS This Morning today to discuss the latest developments on North Korea and trade policy. You can click here to watch the interview. On North Korea: "In the past, the United States has lived up to our end of the bargain where we've entered into promises or agreements with North Korea only to see the North Koreans break their end of the bargain so what this administration needs to continue to do is apply maximum pressure as it has, continue to engage China and other countries around the world to enforce stricter standards and stricter sanctions." On Trade: “I think he [the President] is right to say we need trade agreements that are fair. What I disagree with, of course, is on the decision to impose a tariff on steel or aluminum, or to withdraw from NAFTA that could actually hurt the American people.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
03.07.2018	03.07.18 Gardner, Bennet Meet with Colorado County Commissioners Washington, DC – Yesterday, Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Michael Bennet (D-CO) met with County Commissioners from several Colorado counties. They discussed a variety of issues affecting Colorado, including public lands, Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILT), broadband, and infrastructure. Attendees included Commissioners from Adams, Alamosa, Arapahoe, Douglas, El Paso, Jefferson, La Plata, Mineral, Montezuma, Morgan, Routt, San Miguel, and Teller counties. “Senator Bennet and I had a great meeting with Colorado county commissioners about how the federal, state, and local government can continue to work together to advance policies that help Coloradans,” said Gardner. “Whether it is protecting our public lands, modernizing our infrastructure, or deploying broadband to rural communities, our working relationship with local officials is vital to finding solutions.” “There’s no problem we couldn’t solve if lawmakers in Washington took their jobs as seriously as the County Commissioners do in Colorado,” said Bennet. “We need to empower local decision-makers, while also making the federal government function better for Coloradans. The topics discussed in our meeting—from broadband to public lands—only confirmed how critical it is for local and federal governments to work together to expand opportunities for Colorado communities and families.” ###
03.06.2018	03.06.18 Gardner Secures $16 Million TIGER Grant for Southwest Chief Amtrak Line Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today announced the Department of Transportation has awarded a $16 million Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) grant that will help rehabilitate railroad segments that Amtrak’s Southwest Chief line runs on, including in Colorado. Gardner previously signed a letter to the Secretary of Transportation advocating for the grant. Click here to download Gardner’s video remarks. “This grant funding for the Southwest Chief Amtrak line is great news for southern Colorado,” said Gardner. “The Southwest Chief is an important means of transportation for Colorado rural communities and the surrounding region. I was proud to fight for this grant at the federal level and am thrilled to deliver this news to southern Colorado.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
03.06.2018	03.06.18 Gardner Receives Bipartisan Policy Center’s Legislative Action Award for his Bipartisan Work in the Senate Washington, DC – The Bipartisan Policy Center (BPC) today announced Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), has been awarded their Legislative Action Award. The awards are presented annually to members of Congress within their first six years in office who work to build consensus, elevate the tenor of the debate, practice civility, and advance legislation on pressing issues. The diverse Award Selection Committee is comprised of BPC’s senior leadership and board members, co-chairs of BPC’s Commission on Political Reform, and representatives from businesses and non-profits, who provide their key input in determining our awardees. “Senator Cory Gardner demonstrates the power of strong principles combined with a willingness to reach across the political aisle on issues of consequence to the nation,” said BPC President Jason Grumet. “On matters as diverse and important as immigration, cybersecurity, and the threat from North Korea, Senator Gardner’s primary focus has been on action and results. He is at once a proud member of his party and an effective legislator who places the interests of the country first.” “Putting partisan politics aside and focusing on enacting actual policy solutions for my constituents is one of my top priorities in the Senate,” said Gardner. “I appreciate the Bipartisan Policy Center recognizing my commitment to working across the aisle everyday with people like my Democratic colleague from Colorado Michael Bennet, and hope that in the coming year there are more legislative achievements we can point to that prove the best way to get meaningful things done is through bipartisanship.” About the Bipartisan Policy Center The Bipartisan Policy Center is a non-profit organization that combines the best ideas from both parties to promote health, security, and opportunity for all Americans. BPC drives principled and politically viable policy solutions through the power of rigorous analysis, painstaking negotiation, and aggressive advocacy. As a Washington, D.C.-based think tank that actively promotes bipartisanship, BPC works to address the key challenges facing the nation. Our policy solutions are the product of informed deliberations by former elected and appointed officials, business and labor leaders, and academics and advocates who represent both ends of the political spectrum. We are currently focused on health, energy, national security, the economy, financial regulatory reform, housing, immigration, infrastructure, and governance. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
03.06.2018	03.06.18 Gardner Statement on North Korea Reports Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity, released the following statement regarding reports of North Korea’s willingness to discuss denuclearization with the United States. “While this statement of intent from North Korea is a positive development, we have been down this road before, so we need to avoid repeating the mistakes of the past that have led us to the crisis today,” said Gardner. “Our goal of any discussions with North Korea should remain the complete, verifiable and irreversible denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula, and I urge the Administration to continue the maximum pressure campaign against the regime, including robust sanctions enforcement and joint military exercises, until that goal is the reality.” Senator Gardner has been the leader in the Senate on efforts to bring a peaceful denuclearization to the Korean Peninsula. Gardner is the author of the Leverage to Enhance Effective Diplomacy Act (LEED). This bipartisan legislation requires the President to impose an economic embargo on North Korea and its enablers. Additionally, it requires the President to block any entity or financial institution implicated in any significant trade with North Korea from the U.S. financial system. Gardner is also the author of the North Korea Sanctions Policy and Enhancement Act, signed into law in February of 2016. The legislation marked the first time Congress imposed stand-alone mandatory sanctions on North Korea. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
03.06.2018	03.06.18 Gardner, Bennet, Wyden Introduce Legislation to Strengthen Investments in Skiing Communities Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Senator Michael Bennet (D-CO), and Senator Ron Wyden (D-OR) introduced the Ski Area Fee Retention Act on Tuesday. Currently, ski area permit fees paid to the Forest Service are sent to the U.S. Department of the Treasury and then appropriated back to the Forest Service. This legislation would create a Ski Area Fee Retention Account under the National Forest System, in which a portion of the roughly $37 million in annual fees generated by the ski areas would be retained. This would ensure that the Forest Service has adequate resources to administer permits and review capital improvement project proposals in more heavily trafficked forests, such as the White River National Forest – the most visited National Forest in the country. “It’s important that our skiing communities don’t just send money to Washington and not fully benefit from the government fees they are charged,” said Senator Gardner. “My bipartisan legislation with Senator Bennet will make it easier for our skiing communities to make the capital improvements they need to grow and thrive.” “The Forest Service is an important partner for Colorado’s communities and outdoor recreation industry,” said Senator Bennet. “Retaining some of the ski area fees in our National Forests will help strengthen that partnership and provide new opportunities for growth in our mountain communities.” “Ski areas are huge economic generators in the recreation industry and rural communities in Oregon and across the country,” said Senator Wyden. “They also require active management to keep their environmental impacts to a minimum. This bill keeps revenue from ski area fees at the source of where that money was raised, allowing the Forest Service to better manage public lands that host ski areas.” “All of the ski areas operating on public land appreciate Senator Gardner and Senator Bennet’s support in introducing this critical legislation,” said Geraldine Link, Director of Public Policy for National Ski Areas Association. “The bill will support the important public-private partnership between the Forest Service and ski areas, facilitate private investment in infrastructure on public lands, and ultimately benefit rural economies and the recreating public.” “Colorado Ski Country USA thanks Senators Gardner and Bennet for their leadership in introducing the Ski Area Fee Retention Act of 2018,” said Melanie Mills, President & CEO of Colorado Ski Country USA. “Ski areas in Colorado strongly support this proposed legislation, which will provide local Forest Service offices with the resources they so badly need to administer ski area permits and to review and process ski area proposals for improvements.” ###
03.05.2018	03.05.18 Gardner Meets with Colorado Law Enforcement and Colorado Small Business Owners Washington, DC – On Friday, Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) held a roundtable with Colorado law enforcement officials from around the state to discuss ways the federal government can better support our state and local law enforcement agencies. They spoke about the recent officer-involved shootings and Gardner offered his condolences to the community regarding the tragic deaths of three Colorado law enforcement officers. “Our law enforcement officers run toward danger to save lives and I was honored to thank many of them for their heroic actions in person,” said Gardner. “I know my family and I, along with countless other Colorado families, feel safer knowing these brave men and women are patrolling our streets and helping to keep our neighborhoods safe. I enjoyed our discussion and look forward to continuing to work with local and state law enforcement officials on making sure the federal government is providing the support they need to best do their jobs.” Gardner also held a roundtable at Left Hand Brewing in Longmont, Colorado with members of the National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB). Small business owners from the area participated in the event and shared how the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act is helping them, their businesses, and their employees. Gardner added, “I had a great meeting with many of Colorado’s small business owners and appreciated the opportunity to hear how tax relief is helping them and their employees. I spoke with one business owner who will save $250,000 because of tax relief and use that money to invest in their business and hire more employees. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act was designed to give hardworking families a raise and make small business owners more competitive and I was thrilled to hear how it is benefiting Coloradans.” Impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act on small businesses and job creation: · It reduces the corporate tax rate from 35% (which is the highest in the industrialized world) to 21%, which puts American businesses on a level playing field with competitors in other countries · It also gives tax relief to Main Street’s job creators by creating the first ever 20% deduction for pass through businesses · It will lead to new jobs and investments by allowing these businesses to keep more of their profits to invest back into their businesses · It dramatically cuts excise taxes on craft breweries, wineries, and distilleries, freeing up more than $142 million for those businesses to reinvest to expand operations and hire more workers. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
02.28.2018	02.28.18 Gardner Continues Fight to Move BLM West Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today spoke on the Senate floor about his proposal to move the Bureau of Land Management’s (BLM) headquarters to the West. Gardner has led the charge to relocate BLM’s headquarters to the West and first raised the idea at an Energy and Natural Resources hearing in June of 2016. Gardner spoke to Secretary Zinke about his proposal prior to Zinke’s confirmation. Gardner also brought up the issue publically during Zinke’s confirmation hearing. In May of 2017, Gardner introduced the Bureau of Land Management Headquarters Relocation Act, legislation that would authorize the move of the Bureau of Land Management’s (BLM) headquarters from Washington, D.C. to one of the following Western states: Alaska, Arizona, California, Colorado, Idaho, Montana, Nevada, New Mexico, Oregon, Utah, Washington, or Wyoming. Congressman Scott Tipton (CO-3) introduced the House companion bill. (Click here or on the image above to view Gardner’s remarks.) Remarks as prepared for delivery: I’ve come to the floor today to applaud Secretary Zinke for taking a bold approach to modernize the Department of Interior. 93% of all federal land is located in the western United States. This map is illustrative of this fact. Nationwide, the Bureau of Land Management is responsible for managing approximately 700 million acres of federal mineral estate located underground all of the federal land management agencies’ holdings. However, out west, the BLM is also responsible for administering 245 million acres of federal surface lands, and nearly all of that land is located in the 11 western-most states and Alaska. Historically, local BLM field offices have been diligent and effective managers of the public land for multiple use - as they are charged to do under the Federal Land Policy and Management Act. In recent years, directives and management coming from the BLM headquarters in Washington, D.C., have favored deep-pocketed radical special interests over field office decisions and the opinions those who live near and use this land. Whether it is the withdrawal of mineral leasing or the reduction of grazing permits, the concept of multiple use has fell out of favor with the BLM. When you don’t live in the communities that are among and surrounded by these lands, it is easy to make decisions that close off energy development or close cattle ranches, because the consequences are felt out west, and not in D.C. Legislation I have introduced, the BLM Headquarters Relocation Act, would fix that problem. I was pleased to see within its budget request that the Department of the Interior is planning a modernization of their organization and infrastructure for the next 100 years. At the top of the list should be relocating the BLM headquarters out West. Grand Junction, CO is a beautiful place that can accommodate an agency headquarters and has the benefit of a populace that is intimately familiar with public land management policy and decision-making. Making this agency more accountable to the people who have to deal with its management decisions by putting its headquarters among the land it manages would be a great start to modernizing for the next 100 years. I look forward to continuing to work with the Department of the Interior to achieve that goal. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
02.15.2018	02.15.18 Gardner Statement on Immigration Votes Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the below statement following his votes to advance immigration reform: “Our immigration system is broken and that’s why I voted for solutions today,” said Gardner. “President Trump has repeatedly stated he wants to address the Dreamer population and increase border security and the proposals I supported today would have done exactly that. I’m disapointed we were not able to find a solution this week but that does not mean our work is over. I’ll continue to work with Senator Bennet and my other colleagues on both sides of the aisle to find a solution that can pass the Senate, the House, and ultimately be signed by the President.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
02.15.2018	02.15.18 Gardner Lifts Certain DOJ Holds as Positive Conversations Continue on Protecting Colorado’s States’ Rights Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced on Thursday that he has lifted holds on certain Department of Justice nominees as a show of good faith for continued positive conversations with DOJ leadership, including Deputy Assistant Attorney General Rod Rosenstein and the Acting United States Attorney for Colorado, aimed at finding a path forward that respects states’ rights and clarifies the DOJ priorities regarding marijuana enforcement. “Since the Department of Justice rescinded the Cole memo, I have been working with the Department’s leadership, including Deputy Assistant Attorney General Rod Rosenstein and the Acting United States Attorney for Colorado on a path forward that respects states’ rights and clarifies the DOJ’s priorities regarding marijuana enforcement,” said Senator Cory Gardner. “Because we have had positive conversations, I have decided to lift my holds on the Assistant Attorney General for National Security, United States Attorneys, and United States Marshals as an act of good faith. My holds on all other DOJ nominees will remain in place as discussions continue. “Let me be crystal clear: so long as the federal enforcement priorities detailed in the 2013 Cole Memorandum are adequately protected, the DOJ should respect the will of the states who have spoken overwhelmingly on this issue. I will view the DOJ’s failure to do so as a direct contradiction of our positive conversations and will take action accordingly. While I have decided to lift my holds on these specific nominations, I will continue to lead a bipartisan group of colleagues to find a legislative solution. I remain optimistic that we will come to an agreement with the Department of Justice soon.” Senator Gardner’s holds on other DOJ nominees will continue as he works toward a solution that protects Coloradans’ rights. Senator Gardner also remains committed to the bipartisan work he has been leading to find a legislative solution to the issue. “From the moment the Department of Justice announced that it was rescinding the Cole memo, Senator Gardner’s commitment to protecting Colorado’s states’ rights has been effective, important, and appreciated,” said Sal Pace, former Democratic Leader in the Colorado State House and sitting Pueblo County Commissioner. “I am convinced that Senator Gardner continues to effectively fight for Colorado's right to forge our own path on cannabis regulation. The decision to lift a small number of holds on Justice Department nominees will not affect Senator Gardner`s ability to apply pressure to the DOJ, while he works toward a legislative solution. In fact, nobody who supports federal cannabis reform, including myself, wants cannabis to be blamed for holding up appointees related to national security. Such a strategy could backfire.” “The Department of Justice’s decision to reverse course and remove clarity for Cannabis businesses operating in accordance with state law has created confusion and concerns for our industry,” said Neal Levine, Chairman, New Federalism Fund. “I applaud Senator Gardner for fighting for states’ rights, and support his decision to lift a number of DOJ holds on certain nominees while negotiations continue. I am confident Senator Gardner will continue his work to find a bipartisan legislative solution for the state regulated cannabis industry in Colorado and throughout the nation.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
02.14.2018	02.14.18 Senators Gardner and Bennet Introduce Bipartisan Immigration Amendment Addresses DACA and Border Security Washington, D.C. – Colorado U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Michael Bennet (D-CO) announced that they have introduced legislation for consideration by the Senate as they debate DACA and border security measures. The legislation includes $25 billion in appropriated funds for border security measures, including the President’s request for wall funding, and a 12 year pathway to citizenship for Dreamers. The legislation also contains funding for additional immigration judges and a permanent authorization of voluntary e-Verify. “Our immigration system is broken and we need to fix it,” said Senator Gardner. “There are many children who came to this country without documentation and we need to allow them the opportunity to remain here lawfully. Coloradans expect Senator Bennet and I to work together and that’s exactly what we have done. This legislation addresses DACA and border security, and we are urging members on both sides of the aisle that want a solution to support our bipartisan approach to addressing our flawed immigration system.” "This amendment is a reasonable solution to break through Washington gridlock and provide a compromise for Dreamers who are counting on us in Colorado and around the country,” Senator Bennet said. “Our constituents elected us to get things done, and this amendment is the result of each side accepting some things they don’t fully agree with to do just that. We will continue to work with our colleagues to advance this measure and take another step forward in fixing our broken immigration system.” ###
02.08.2018	02.08.18 Gardner, Klobuchar, Daines, Gillibrand Introduce Legislation to Expand Broadband Infrastructure Legislation would increase broadband deployment by cutting red tape for companies, states, and local governments that want to install broadband infrastructure on federal land and promote the simultaneous installation of broadband conduit during the construction of federal transportation projects WASHINGTON - U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Steve Daines (R-MT), and Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY) introduced bipartisan legislation to expand broadband infrastructure. The Streamlining and Investing in Broadband Infrastructure Act would increase broadband deployment by cutting red tape for companies, states, and local governments who want to install broadband infrastructure on federal land and promotes the simultaneous installation of broadband conduit during federal transportation projects. “Access to broadband is access to the modern economy,” Gardner said. “This bill would make federal construction projects more efficient by encouraging simultaneous construction of transportation and broadband infrastructure. In addition, the bill would build on my efforts to encourage faster deployment of broadband infrastructure on federal lands. Continued rural economic development depends on expanded broadband internet access, and I’m proud to support this effort to ensure that expansion happens." “Access to high-speed internet is a basic requirement to compete in today’s global economy,” Klobuchar said. “Yet as I go around Minnesota, I hear from community leaders, residents, and businesses who are in urgent need of reliable broadband. This critical bipartisan legislation would help improve the deployment of broadband infrastructure at a lower cost so that more Americans have access to high-speed internet no matter where they live.” “Reliable, fast internet access is a necessity and should not be a luxury,” said Gillibrand. “The Streamlining and Investing in Broadband Infrastructure Act would give our rural communities in New York greater access to the broadband infrastructure they need to get online and stay competitive in our digital economy. I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this bipartisan legislation to keep all of our communities up to speed.” “Rural Montanans need access to high-speed Internet to support local jobs and compete in the 21st century economy,” said Daines. “We cannot let government regulations stand in the way of the 41 percent of rural Montanans who still lack access to high-speed broadband.” The Streamlining and Investing in Broadband Infrastructure Act would ensure states simultaneously install broadband conduits as part of certain federal transportation projects that involve constructing a new highway or adding an additional lane or shoulder — known as “dig once.” The bill establishes a “standard fee” to streamline leasing agreements involving the installation, construction and maintenance of a communications facility by instructing agencies in possession of federal government property or infrastructure to grant a real property interest to applicants, which may include states, wireless carriers, or other organizations seeking to install communications facilities. “Dig once” is essential to expanding our broadband infrastructure because the Federal Highway Administration estimates that 90% of the cost of deploying broadband consists of digging up and replacing the road. This means that it is ten times more expensive to install broadband conduit alone instead of installing it along with road repairs. Also, broadband conduit installations currently add to the number of road construction projects, creating more traffic congestion. Further, streamlining the siting process for wireless infrastructure on federal land will make deployment in underserved areas easier. ###
02.07.2018	02.07.18 Gardner, Schatz, Harris Introduce Bipartisan Legislation to Improve the Emergency Alert System ALERT Act Would Give Federal Government Sole Responsibility of Notifying the Public of a Missile Threat WASHINGTON – Following the false emergency alert that went out across Hawai‘i on January 13 and caused widespread panic, U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R-Colo.), Brian Schatz (D-Hawai‘i), and Kamala Harris (D-Calif.) introduced the Authenticating Local Emergencies and Real Threats (ALERT) Act, legislation that would improve the emergency alert system and give the federal government the sole responsibility of alerting the public of a missile threat, prohibiting state and local governments from doing so. “Our national integrated public alert system is not something we can afford to get wrong,” said Senator Gardner. “What happened in Hawaii can never happen again - people terrified by the false alert of a system that must have absolute confidence. We need to make sure we have safe and reliable protocols in place that quickly alert Americans about serious threats, whether those threats be fast-moving wildfires or actual ballistic missile launches from rogue states like North Korea. Since they have full control over drafting and issuing alerts, state and local governments need to meet certain standards to participate in our national alert system and the Federal government must be heavily involved in any alerts regarding national security crises. We need to continue to do everything in our power to prevent the worst from happening and that includes being prepared for the worst.”“States are laboratories of democracy. They should not be the laboratories of missile alerts,” said Senator Schatz, the ranking member on the Commerce Subcommittee on Communications, Technology, Innovation, and the Internet. “The people who know first should be the people who tell the rest of us. This legislation makes clear that the authority to send missile alerts rests with the federal government.”“This is a common-sense step to ensure that accurate national security information is used to assess whether or not an emergency alert about a missile threat should be deployed,” said Senator Harris. “It will also ensure that state and local governments continue to play a critical role in emergency response efforts, and provide the federal government with the ability to make missile alerts a more effective public safety tool.” State and local governments have been largely responsible for alerting the public of threats from natural disasters and severe weather. But the system they use rests upon a patchwork of technologies and procedures that do not follow consistency across the government agencies that issue these alerts. The false alarm in Hawai‘i highlighted some of the weaknesses in the state’s emergency alert system, which had a poorly designed user interface and did not have sufficient verification system or computer redundancies to act as a safeguard from mistakes. The incident made clear that there is a need for federal standards in the system and called into question the state’s responsibility to issue a missile alert. The Gardner-Schatz-Harris legislation would strengthen the way states and local governments use the Integrated Public Alert and Warning System (IPAWS), the FEMA platform emergency management professionals across the country use to issue warnings. The ALERT Act would: · Restrict the authority to alert the public of a missile threat to the Federal government. It would also require FEMA to establish a process to promptly notify state authorities when a missile alert is issued so they can activate their own protective action plans to ensure public safety; · Require the IPAWS subcommittee of the FEMA National Advisory Council to make recommendations on the best practices that state and local governments should follow to maintain the integrity of IPAWS. At a minimum, the subcommittee would make recommendations regarding the incident management tools used to originate alerts, and the procedures for testing and sending notifications to the public to avoid false alarms; · Require FEMA to establish minimum requirements for state and local governments to participate in IPAWS within 120 days of receiving the subcommittee’s recommendations. States would have reasonable time to implement any new requirements FEMA imposes; · Require FEMA to establish a process to test the incident management and warning tool that a state or local government adopts to originate and send alerts to the public in the FEMA IPAWS Lab and to certify it meets any technical requirements that FEMA adopts; and · Require FEMA to review its Emergency Operations, National Watch and Regional Watch Centers to assess their ability to track state and local alerts issued under IPAWS and determine which ones they should be notified about when states send them out. ###
02.06.2018	02.06.18 Gardner to Law Enforcement: “We Have Your Backs” Gardner speaks at GOP Leadership Press Conference About Attacks on Colorado Law Enforcement Officers Washington D.C. — Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today spoke about the three horrible tragedies that have taken place in Colorado since December 31, 2017 at the Senate GOP Leadership Press Conference. You can view and download the video by clicking here. Rushed Transcript: Over the course of the past 36 days in Colorado, ten law enforcement officers have been shot and three have been tragically killed including one yesterday. This has left four children without fathers and countless loved ones with enormous losses. Deputy Parrish, Deputy Gumm, and Deputy Flick gave their lives to protect their community and we cannot do enough to honor their sacrifice, and we must never forget it. I want every law enforcement officer in Colorado and this country to know that we have their backs and enough is enough. Former State Representative Joe Rice who served multiple tours in Iraq and Afghanistan wrote how he prays for his fellow soldiers and their safety each and every day by saying and praying: “For all of those around the world in harm’s way we pray with you. Please God just not today.” And I want to echo that sentiment and let our men and women in blue - law enforcement around the country – know that I pray with you each and every day. Please God, just not today. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
02.01.2018	02.01.18 Gardner Requests Delay of Proposed National Park Fee Increase Washington D.C. — Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today sent a letter to Department of Interior Secretary Zinke requesting he “delay the implementation of and work with the stakeholders on the proposed targeted fee increase at 17 National Parks.” “While I share your urgency on the need to address the park maintenance backlog, I have concerns that sudden and dramatic increases in the costs of passes for both private individuals and commercial operations could have unforeseen negative consequences on the communities that rely on visitation to these parks to keep their economies thriving,” wrote Gardner. “Additionally, I have serious concerns about the elimination of day pass at RMNP.” The letter reads in full: Dear Secretary Zinke: I write to request that you delay the implementation of and work with the stakeholders on the proposed targeted fee increase at 17 National Parks. One of the parks where a fee increase has been proposed, Rocky Mountain National Park (RMNP), is in the state of Colorado and if the proposal moves forward as written, RMNP would be subject to an increase of over 100% and 400% on private and commercial passes, respectively, while also eliminating day passes. While I share your urgency on the need to address the park maintenance backlog, I have concerns that sudden and dramatic increases in the costs of passes for both private individuals and commercial operations could have unforeseen negative consequences on the communities that rely on visitation to these parks to keep their economies thriving. Additionally, I have serious concerns about the elimination of day pass at RMNP. RMNP is unique in that it is the only national park in the country that currently issues a daily pass. Coloradoans love their public lands, and a great number of RMNP visitors are day-trippers from the front-range. In 2016, day passes represented 70% of the total number of passes issued, and were responsible for 50% of the fee revenue generated by all passes. I do not believe the elimination of this pass would increase either visitation or revenue to the park. The more likely outcome is the purchase of more annual passes, which when purchased online do not see the park benefit from the revenue generated by the sale. There is an urgent need to address the more than $11 billion dollar maintenance backlog on lands managed by the National Park Service, over $220 million of which is here in Colorado. However, we must ensure that any changes we make do not cause a reduction in visitation that could affect the local economies that support the parks. I oppose any immediate fee increases at RMNP and urge you to engage with the stakeholders prior to finalizing any proposal for the fee structure as well as keep the day pass that generates the most revenue for RMNP. I stand ready and willing to work with you to find a legislative solution to the maintenance backlog that will more ably address the issue. Thank you for your attention to this matter. Sincerely, ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
01.30.2018	01.30.18 Gardner Statement on the State of the Union Washington, DC - Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the below statement following President Trump’s first State of the Union Address: “I applaud the President’s call for unity tonight. It’s time that we come together as a country, and for Democrats and Republicans to work together on issues to achieve a compromise for Dreamers and make needed investments to our nation’s crumbling infrastructure. “I was pleased the President also highlighted how the tax cuts have already resulted in billions of dollars of investment and wage growth. We must continue to grow the economy and reduce the burden of Washington on hardworking Americans. While urban areas along the Front Range are thriving, the forgotten corners of our state and country are not seeing the same level of success. We must do better for all America. “Many of the goals outlined tonight will serve as a blueprint for what Congress can achieve for the American people in the coming year, and I hope Democrats and Republicans will work together to move our country forward.” ###
01.30.2018	01.30.18 Gardner, 35 Senate Colleagues Outline Way Forward on NAFTA Washington D.C. — Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), along with 35 of his colleagues, sent a letter to President Trump highlighting that the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) benefits the United States and outlining how President Trump can improve the agreement. “NAFTA supports 14 million jobs, representing thousands of jobs in each of the 50 states,” the senators wrote. "Despite all of its benefits, however, we can do better and there are opportunities to improve the agreement. Modernizing NAFTA to increase market access, expand energy exports to maximize domestic energy production and including provisions on intellectual property and e-commerce will make this agreement even more beneficial to the United States.” Co-signatories include Senators Mitch McConnell (R-KY), Lamar Alexander (R-TN), Joni Ernst (R-IA), Deb Fischer (R-NE), Lindsey Graham (R-SC), Pat Roberts (R-KS), Rand Paul (R-KY), John Cornyn (R-TX), John Boozman (R-AR), Johnny Isakson (R-GA), John Thune (R-SD), Jerry Moran (R-KS), Mike Rounds (R-SD), Rob Portman (R-OH), Roy Blunt (R-MO), Pat Toomey (R-PA), Ron Johnson (R-WI), Chuck Grassley (R-IA), Bill Cassidy (R-LA), John Hoeven (R-ND), Steve Daines (R-MT), Jim Risch (R-ID), Todd Young (R-IN), Thad Cochran (R-MS), Mike Crapo (R-ID), Thom Tillis (R-NC), Tim Scott (R-SC), Roger Wicker (R-MS), James Lankford (R-OK), Mike Lee (R-UT), John Barrasso (R-WY), Mike Enzi (R-WY), Ben Sasse (R-NE), Ted Cruz (R-TX), and Bob Corker (R-TN). The letter reads in full: Mr. President: We write today to reaffirm the benefits of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) and congratulate you on efforts to modernize the agreement and put America first. You have the opportunity to unleash the American economy like no President has done before and fuel historic growth. NAFTA has driven U.S. trade with Canada and Mexico to approximately $1.3 trillion annually. Whether manufacturers, farmers, or insurance providers, a wide range of industries in the U.S. have benefitted from this agreement and American consumers are reaping those benefits, too. Canadians and Mexicans buy nearly $500 billion worth of U.S. manufactured goods each year, translating to $37,000 in export revenue for every American factory worker, and U.S. agricultural exports to the two countries have quadrupled under the agreement from $8.9 billion in 1993 to $38.1 billion in 2016. NAFTA supports 14 million jobs, representing thousands of jobs in each of the 50 states. Despite all of its benefits, however, we can do better and there are opportunities to improve the agreement. Modernizing NAFTA to increase market access, expand energy exports to maximize domestic energy production and including provisions on intellectual property and e-commerce will make this agreement even more beneficial to the United States. Mr. President, your leadership has jump-started our economy. The recent tax reform bill is already leading to economic success across all industries and the stock market is at record highs. The next step to advance the economy requires that we keep NAFTA in place, but modernize it to better reflect our 21st century economy. We look forward to working with you and your Administration to make that modernization a reality and bring Americans even greater economic success. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
01.30.2018	01.30.18 Gardner Honors Fallen Adams County Deputy on Senate Floor Washington, DC - Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today spoke on the Senate floor about the horrible tragedy that occurred in Adams County on January 24th and to honor the life and legacy of fallen Adams County Sheriff’s Deputy Heath Gumm. Click here to view Gardner’s remarks. Remarks as prepared for delivery: Mr. President: I rise today to speak about a horrible tragedy that occurred in Adams County, Colorado on January 24th. Adams County Sheriff’s Deputy Heath Gumm was pursuing a suspect when he was shot and killed in the line of duty. Heath was 31 years old and is survived by his wife and other loving family members. He had served with the Adams County Sheriff’s Office since 2012, which was not a surprise to those who knew him best because of his upbringing. He grew up in a family of first responders. His father is a retired West Metro Fire Protection District engineer and his teachers and classmates that knew Heath as a student at Mullen High School in Denver were not shocked to learn he had decided to become a law enforcement officer. As reported by the Denver Post, Heath’s ninth-grade English teacher Sean Keefe said, “By all accounts, he lived his life as a grown man as he did as a kid. He was a good guy. That didn’t change. That only got more accentuated as he grew up. He lifted his friends. He made his friends the best version of themselves, and they did that to him as well.” And Heath’s cousin remembered him as “the kind of man you wanted out there protecting our streets. He was kind, fair, funny and friendly to everyone.” Keefe went on to remember Heath as “someone people gravitated towards, and he was someone who people could count on.” It’s THESE qualities that made Heath such an incredible Sheriff’s Deputy. At a press conference last Thursday, Adams County Sheriff Michael McIntosh read parts of a letter he had received from a stranded motorist Heath had recently helped while out on patrol. The resident wrote, “Heath made the interaction enjoyable and easy to get through instead of acting like I was in trouble or a nuisance.” Heath showed what it means to be a law enforcement officer who selflessly serves and protects a community. He went to work each and every day ready to walk that thin blue line. When we lose an officer in Colorado I come to this chamber to honor their sacrifice and recite the words of Lieutenant Colonel Dave Grossman who wrote that American law enforcement is the loyal and brave sheep dog, always standing watch for the wolf that lurks in the dark. Unfortunately, I have repeated those words in this chamber too many times. We owe so much to Heath and law enforcement officers across Colorado and across the country for their service. Instead of fleeing to safety, they run toward danger to save lives. They provide hope and safety to our families in the worst of times. Thank you, Heath, for answering the call. You protected your community and I, along with Coloradans across the state, are forever grateful. We will never forget your sacrifice and will always honor your memory. Mr. President, I yield the floor. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
01.26.2018	01.26.18 Gardner, Senate Colleagues Honor National School Choice Week Washington D.C. — Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), along with 21 of his colleagues, introduced a bipartisan resolution declaring January 21st through January 27, 2018 as “National School Choice Week.” “National School Choice Week highlights the importance of parents having greater control over their child’s education,” said Gardner. “I have always been a strong supporter of school choice because it not only encourages parents to be more involved, but also improves the quality of their child’s education. Our children should not be forced to attend a specific school just because of their zip code. Parents know what is best for their own children and it is time we start letting families make decisions that best suit their own needs.” The full text of the resolution can be found here. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
01.26.2018	01.26.18 For American Workers Tax Reform Continues To Deliver Quack, Quack... …AFLAC is increasing “the company's 401(k) match, from 50% to 100% on the first 4% of employee contribution, while making a one-time contribution of $500 to every employee's 401(k) plan.” And recent announcements from Home Depot and Starbucks further prove tax relief is working. CNBC reports, Starbucks will “give domestic employees pay raises, company stock, and expanded benefits. The enhanced compensation is worth of more than $250 million, the company said.” And Home Depot will be “awarding its hourly employees in the U.S. a one-time cash bonus of as much as $1,000 following the passage of new tax legislation.” And just a few other companies that are passing on the benefits of tax relief that employ Coloradans include: BANK OF COLORADO: “Bank of Colorado is paying a special bonus of $1,000 to each full-time associate to share the benefit of the tax cut passed earlier this month by Congress. President of Bank of Colorado, Shawn Osthoff said, “We feel strongly that the message should be loud and clear that this is a tax cut that will benefit all Americans.”Bank of Colorado has 641 associates in Colorado and New Mexico. (“Bank of Colorado to pay special bonus to employees after receiving tax cut,” Denver Post, 1/5/2018). FedEx: “FedEx says it'll be giving wage increases, bonuses and make a voluntary $1.5 billion contribution to the company's pension plan, citing recent tax reform legislation.”(FedEx to give wage increases, bonuses to workers,” ABC News, 1/25/2018). JPMORGAN CHASE: “J.P. Morgan Chase announced plans to spend $20 billion over five years to raise hourly pay for a portion of its workforce, add jobs and open 400 branches in new U.S. locations. The bank says tax breaks, reduced regulation and an improved business climate have made it possible to make these changes, which also includes adding 4,000 jobs and increasing its charitable giving.” (“JP Morgan Chase To Build 400 New Branches, Raise Wages Because Of The Tax Cut,” CNBC, 1/23/2018) VERIZON: “Verizon says employees (other than top management) will receive 50 shares of restricted stock, the price of which will be set on February 1. The award could total over $400 million, based on Verizon's current share price. Shares traded around $53 a share on Tuesday, after quarterly earnings were released.” (“Verizon Says Many Workers Will Receive Shares Of Stock,” CNBC, 1/23/2018) WALMART: “Today, Walmart announced plans to increase the starting wage rate for all hourly associates in the U.S. to $11, expand maternity and parental leave benefits and provide a one-time cash bonus for eligible associates of up to $1,000. The company is also creating a new benefit to assist associates with adoption expenses. The combined wage and benefit changes will benefit the company’s more than one million U.S. hourly associates.” (Walmart, Press Release, 1/11/2018) WELLS FARGO: With 250,000 plus employees “Wells Fargo, meanwhile, also said it would be boosting its minimum wage for employees to $15 an hour. The bank also said it would target $400 million in donations to community and nonprofit organizations next year.” (“Wells Fargo, Fifth Third Bancorp Unveil Minimum Wage Hikes After Tax Bill Passage,” CNBC, 12/20/2017) AT&T: “AT&T Is Giving $1,000 Bonuses To 200,000 Employees After Tax Bill: AT&T was quick to respond to news of U.S. tax reform, announcing it would give some employees bonuses once the legislation is signed into law. The telecom giant said in a press release Wednesday that it would give more than 200,000 U.S. union members a special bonus of $1,000.” (“AT&T Is Giving $1,000 Bonuses To 200,000 Employees After Tax Bill,” CNBC, 12/20/2017) DARDEN RESTAURANTS: “Restaurant companies are joining the corporate chorus rushing to praise the tax bill Congress passed last month as Orlando-based Darden Restaurants said the legislation will save it about $70 million. Olive Garden and LongHorn Steakhouse parent company Darden Restaurants said the new tax reform plan will cut taxes by about $70 million in the third quarter. The Orlando-based restaurant chain said Monday the tax cut will prompt it to spend an additional $20 million on its 175,000-plus employees this year…” (“Darden Says Tax Reform Will Save It $70 Million,” Orlando Sentinel, 1/8/2018) BANK OF AMERICA: “Bank of America will give some of its employees a $1,000 bonus, citing the tax bill that was just signed into law. ‘Beginning in 2018, we will see benefits from the tax reform ... in the form of lower corporate tax rates,’ CEO Brian Moynihan said in an internal memo to employees obtained by CNBC. He also said that about 145,000 employees will receive the bonus.” (“Bank Of America Is Giving Some Employees A $1,000 Bonus, Citing Tax Bill,” CNBC, 12/22/2017) AMERICAN AIRLINES: To more than 100,000 employees “We are pleased to announce that in light of this new tax structure and in recognition of our outstanding team members, American will distribute $1,000 to each team member (excluding Officers) at our mainline and wholly owned regional carriers. These distributions will total approximately $130 million and will be made in the first quarter of 2018.” (American Airlines, Press Release, 1/2/2018) COMCAST: “Based on the passage of tax reform … Brian L. Roberts, Chairman and CEO of Comcast NBCUniversal, announced that the Company would award special $1,000 bonuses to more than one hundred thousand eligible frontline and non-executive employees.” (Comcast, Press Release, 12/20/2017) SOUTHWEST: To more than 55,000 employees: “The Southwest Board of Directors authorized a bonus to all Southwest Airlines Employees to celebrate the recent passage of the tax reform legislation. All Fulltime and Part-time Southwest Employees employed with Southwest on Dec. 31, 2017, will receive a $1,000 cash bonus on Jan. 8, 2018.” (Southwest, Press Release, 1/2/2018) HUMANA: To more than 50,000 employees: “Humana will extend the offer new incentive pay and increase its minimum wage for employees, a move that it credited to federal tax reform. A note sent to employees said that ‘like many U.S. companies, Humana will begin benefitting this year from a lower corporate income tax rate. This provides Humana with the opportunity to make an investment in our employees, using the proceeds from tax reform to further the long-term financial health and well-being of our employee population.’” (“Humana Will Share The Wealth From Tax Cut With New Incentive Pay, Boosted Minimum Wage,” Courier Journal, 1/17/2018) CAPITAL ONE: Raising its base wage to $15 per hour for U.S. employees. Capital One employs approximately 47,000 people. (“Breaking: Capital One Will Raise Base Wage for U.S. Employees to $15 per Hour,” Americans For Tax Reform, 1/11/2018) WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.: “Waste Management, Inc. announced today that, in light of the meaningful contributions of its employees and the new U.S. corporate tax structure, the company will distribute US $2,000 in 2018 to every North American employee not on a bonus or sales incentive plan; that includes hourly and other employees. …said Jim Fish, president and chief executive officer, Waste Management. ‘So, we are offering each North American hourly full-time employee and salaried employee who does not participate in any sales incentive or bonus plan during 2018, a cash bonus of US $2,000 to show our appreciation to so many of our valued employees while growing our business and returning a good portion of the tax savings directly to the overall economy,’ he continued. Approximately 34,000 qualified Waste Management employees could receive this special bonus.” (Waste Management, Inc., Press Release, 1/10/2018) NATIONWIDE INSURANCE: “Employees of Nationwide Insurance found out Wednesday they’ll be seeing a big bonus and an increase in 401(k) matching from the company. In an email sent to employees, the company announced it will provide bonuses of $1,000 and increase 401(k) matching from 50 percent on the first 6 percent of employee contribution to 50 percent on the first 7 percent of employee contribution. The company said in a statement the one-time bonus impacts approximately 29,000 front-line associates, managers and individual contributors across the country. The 401(k) action impacts approximately 33,000 associates.” (“Nationwide Gives Big Bonuses, Credits Tax Reform,” KCCI8, 1/3/2018) OLD DOMINION FREIGHT LINE INC.: CEO David Congdon on issuing $500 bonuses to 22,000 employees: “I am excited to share a bit of good holiday cheer with you today. The President has signed a historic tax reform bill that should reduce OD’s taxes and also generate growth for the U.S. economy. We expect that the anticipated improvement in the economy will create additional opportunities for use to WIN market share and grow our Company more than originally anticipated. … As a way of saying THANK YOU for continuing to deliver best-in-class service, and to share part of our anticipated 2017 tax savings with you, a one-time bonus payment for non-executives will be included in your paycheck this week.” (Old Dominion Freight Line, Inc., Press Release, 1/2018) ALASKA AIRLINES: “Alaska Air Group said Thursday it has approved special one-time bonuses of $1,000 each for its 22,000 workers after Congress approved the Trump administration's corporate tax cut package. The money will be paid out to employees who work for Alaska Airlines as well as staff at its Virgin America, Horizon Air and McGee Air Services affiliates in Seattle and in other cities in the Pacific Northwest, Alaska and elsewhere across the United States, Alaska spokesman Bryan Zidar said. ... The bonuses will be shared with workers on Jan. 26, the company said.” (“Alaska Air Group Awards $1,000 Bonuses To Workers After Trump Tax Cut,” Puget Sound Business Journal, 1/4/2018) JETBLUE: “On January 4, 2018 the JetBlue Senior Leadership Team shared the following note regarding the airline’s plan to distribute $1,000 to all of its 21,000 crewmembers… When tax reform looked like a real possibility late last year, we formed a team to think through what it could mean for each of these important groups. Many ideas are on the table but we believe our Crewmembers should be the first to benefit. With that in mind, we are excited to announce we will be paying every Crewmember employed as of December 31, 2017, a $1,000 bonus by the end of February!” (JetBlue, Press Release, 1/4/2018) THE TRAVELERS COMPANIES, INC.: “Joining a growing list of companies handing out cash in the wake of federal legislation that slashes corporate tax rates, the Travelers Cos. Inc. told its staff Friday it will give bonuses of $1,000 to thousands of employees. Chief Executive Officer Alan Schnitzer said in a letter to employees that Travelers will give the bonuses in January to about 14,000 employees with a base salary of $75,000 a year or less and who meet ‘performance expectations.’” (“Travelers Cites US Tax Overhaul In Pledging $1,000 Worker Bonus,” Hartford Courant, 1/16/2018) ###
01.24.2018	01.24.18 Gardner: “North Korea Sanctions Are Positive Step Forward” Washington D.C. — Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Chairman of the Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity released the below statement following the Trump Administration announcing a new round of sanctions against North Korea and their enablers. The sanctions targeting North Korea’s crude oil industry include nine entities, sixteen individuals, and six vessels. Some of the individuals and entities sanctioned are based out of Russia and China. “The sanctions announced today against North Korea and their enablers are another positive step forward in this administration’s efforts to hold bad actors responsible for aiding North Korea and their rogue regime,” Gardner said. “The ultimate goal must be the complete, verifiable, and irreversible denuclearization of the North Korean regime, and our policy must be to give nations and companies a clear choice – do business with the United States or do business with a rogue regime like North Korea.” Senator Gardner is the author of the Leverage to Enhance Effective Diplomacy Act (LEED). This bipartisan legislation requires the President to impose an economic embargo on North Korea and its enablers. Additionally, it requires the President to block any entity or financial institution implicated in any significant trade with North Korea from the U.S. financial system. Read more on the LEED Act here. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
01.24.2018	01.24.18 Gardner Votes to Confirm Alex Azar to Lead HHS Washington D.C. —Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statement following the confirmation of Alex Azar as Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services: “I voted to confirm Alex Azar because he is a qualified candidate that will bring extensive experience to the Department of Health and Human Services. I look forward to working with him on many issues, including bringing more affordable health insurance to Coloradans and fighting the opioid epidemic that is having a devastating effect on too many of our communities.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
01.22.2018	01.22.18 Gardner Votes to End Government Shutdown Work for Dreamers and Border Security will Continue WASHINGTON, DC – Senator Gardner released the below statement following the Senate securing sufficient votes to open back up the government. “This government shutdown forced by Senate Democrats was dangerous and unnecessary. The bill we passed is the same bill Republicans initially proposed – including the longest reauthorization of CHIP in history – with one simple change: we are now funding the government through February 8th rather than February 16th. I wanted a bipartisan solution. I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to fix many other remaining issues before us including DACA and to restore responsibility in Congress.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
01.20.2018	01.20.18 Gardner votes AGAINST Government Shutdown and FOR Six Years of CHIP Funding for Colorado's Children WASHINGTON, DC – Senator Gardner voted today to keep the government open. The vote failed in the U.S. Senate. Additionally, the Continuing Resolution included a six-year reauthorization of CHIP funding. Those who voted in opposition shut down the government and prevented CHIP funding from being extended for six years. “Opposing this funding legislation is support for a government shutdown, and I believe that approach is unacceptable for Coloradans,” said Gardner. “I voted to keep the government open because our military, veterans, children’s health insurance programs, and fundamental government services like opioid treatment centers should not be held hostage for political reasons. I will continue to work with any of my colleagues who are interested in finding a long-term solution to fund our government. “I will also continue to work with members on both sides of the aisle to gain support for bipartisan immigration reform that includes border security measures and protections for Dreamers, but shutting down the government over the issue won’t get us closer to a solution,” continued Gardner. Senator Gardner was a major opponent of the 2013 shutdown. He voted for every spending measure to keep the government open. In 2013, Democrats also opposed shutting down the government and insisted on a clean spending bill. What’s the difference now? What were Democrats saying during the shutdown in 2013 SEN. CHUCK SCHUMER (D-NY): “…basically, it's sort of like this. Someone goes into your house, takes your wife and children hostage and then, says, let's negotiate over the price of your house. You know, we could do the same thing on immigration. We believe strongly in immigration reform. We could say, ‘we’re shutting down the government, we’re not gonna raise the debt ceiling, until you pass immigration reform.’ It would be governmental chaos.” (ABC’s “This Week,” 10/6/13) -SEN. SCHUMER: “You cannot negotiate with a hostage situation like that. You cannot negotiate with a gun to your head.” (CNN, 10/7/13) -“‘I’ll give you the basic line,’ Mr. Schumer relented after twice declining to comment on the shutdown situation. ‘The basic line is: No matter how strongly one feels about an issue, you shouldn’t hold millions of people hostage. That’s what the other side is doing. That’s wrong and we can’t give in to that.’” (“Chuck Schumer Slams Republican ‘Fanatics’ In Federal Shutdown Fight,” NY Observer, 9/29/2013) REP. NANCY PELOSI (D-CA): “I join the American people in their disgust in what happened in terms of the shut down of government. That’s an unthinkable tactic to use in a political debate.” (ABC News’ “This Week,” 10/20/2013) “‘I call them 'legislative arsonists',’ [Pelosi] said. ‘They're there to burn down what we should be building up in terms of investments and education and scientific research, and all that it is that makes our country great and competitive.’” (“Pelosi Calls Republicans 'Legislative Arsonists' Over Government Shutdown,” Guardian, 9/22/2013) ###
01.19.2018	01.19.18 Gardner: “Don’t Shutdown the Government, Fund CHIP and Keep the Government Open” Washington D.C. —Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today took to the Senate floor to urge his colleagues to keep the government open and fully fund CHIP for six years: Click here to view the video. The continuing resolution that passed the House reauthorizes CHIP funding for six years, the longest extension of CHIP since it was created. CHIP funding was set to run out for many states last month but Congress passed a short term three-month extension. Passing this government spending bill finally provides CHIP the funding and certainty that Senator Gardner has been fighting for in Congress. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
01.19.2018	01.19.18 ICYMI: Gardner Discusses Bipartisan Immigration Proposal, Funding CHIP, and Keeping the Government Open Gardner: “This is the longest-term funding reauthorization that women’s and children’s healthcare has ever received” Washington, DC - Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today joined CBS This Morning to discuss his bipartisan immigration proposal, keeping the government open, and fully funding CHIP for six years: Click here to view the video. The continuing resolution that passed the House reauthorizes CHIP funding for six years, the longest extension of CHIP since it was created. CHIP funding was set to run out for many states last month but Congress passed a short term three-month extension. Passing this government spending bill finally provides CHIP the funding and certainty that Senator Gardner has been fighting for in Congress. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
01.17.2018	01.17.18 Gardner Denounces Continued Problems at Colorado VA Gardner: “Our veterans have honorably served this great nation. Now is the time that we step up and honorably serve them.” Washington D.C. —Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today spoke on the Senate floor about the need to reform the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). This speech follows an NBC Nightly News report that outlined lengthy wait times at the Denver VA. Click here to view Gardner’s remarks. In November, Gardner introduced the Veterans Improved Access and Care Act of 2017, legislation designed to increase access to care for our nation’s veterans and reform the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) hiring process to make it easier to fill staffing shortages at medical facilities. The legislation expands on the success of the CHOICE Act by eliminating the 30 day, 40 mile eligibility rule, giving veterans full access to medical care regardless of their situation or location. The introduction of the legislation followed an explosive Inspector General report Gardner demanded that revealed unofficial waitlists at a number of Colorado VA facilities. Remarks as Prepared for Delivery: Mr: President: Today I rise once again to address the troubling reports coming out of Colorado regarding the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). It has now been over three years since the Phoenix VA catastrophe, where secret wait lists led to the deaths of veterans. At that time, the VA pledged that this problem would be fixed. That it would never happen again. Well, Mr. President, it saddens me to say that in Denver, Colorado, that promise has been broken. Following the Phoenix disaster, this body passed the Veterans Access, Choice and Accountability Act (VA CHOICE) to expand access for veterans to community medical providers. And no doubt it has been successful in different parts of the country. But the Denver VA system continues to post inexcusable wait times, experience a shortage of doctors and nurses, and use secret wait lists. This is unacceptable. The average wait time for a new patient at the Denver VA for a primary care appointment has topped 42 days! This leads the nation, and is twice the national average. Our veterans deserve better, and too many have been affected by this travesty. Last week, NBC Nightly News told the story of one Colorado veteran, Alison Bush. Alison served in the Army for seven years, and suffers from a nerve disorder. With such a disorder, she cannot afford delayed appointments. Yet, Alison was forced to wait over THREE months for a primary care appointment, and another 60 days for an MRI. There is absolutely no excuse for this. Alison, like so many others, answered the call of duty, only to be let down after retiring the uniform. Now, I recognize that Colorado is witnessing an increase in demand, with more than 11 thousand veterans seeking care in the last two years. But this is no excuse. The VA must adapt in the face of adversity. We must make changes. And we must never forget that this nation’s number one priority MUST be our veterans! Because of stories like Ashley’s, I recently introduced S. 2168, the Veterans Improved Access and Care Act of 2017. My legislation would address three issues: hiring shortages, delayed wait times, and malpractice reporting. A large driver of delayed wait times for veterans is the shortage of doctors and nurses. The current system for hiring these medical professionals is too long and too burdensome. According to a McKinsey & Company study in 2015, it took 4 to 8 months to hire a VA employee. The on-boarding process alone can take over 3 months. According to the same study, private medical facilities took less than 2 months to hire an applicant. Now just think about that for a moment. Just like in the VA, a private sector applicant has to go through an interview process, a certification of credentials process, AND a background check. Yet, the VA’s on-boarding process is longer than the private sector’s entire hiring process. It makes absolutely no sense. My legislation would take steps to fix this problem. It would authorize the VA to establish a pilot program to expedite the hiring of doctors at facilities where there are shortages of available specialists, such as nurses or anesthesiologists. Furthermore, it would require the Secretary of the VA to submit a report to Congress detailing a strategy to reduce the length of the VA’s hiring process by half. My bill would also look to expand access to our veterans. The VA Choice program, while well intentioned, still contains arbitrary rules such as a 30-day waiting period before a veteran can seek access to community providers. Well, Mr. President, 29 days is also unacceptable. My legislation would work to improve the CHOICE Act by eliminating the 30-day/40-mile eligibility rule, giving veterans full access to medical care regardless of his or her situation. And finally, my legislation will work to ensure that secret waitlists are forever extinguished. Last November, a Department of Veterans Affairs Office of Inspector General report substantiated the claim that the Eastern Colorado Health Care System used unofficial wait lists for veterans, estimating that at least 3,775 veterans were affected. This is extremely disheartening. There needs to be accountability of such malpractice. My legislation would do just that. It would codify the VA’s policy to expand the requirements of reporting malpractice to include ALL medical providers. Our veterans have served our country. They have missed holidays with their families. They have suffered battlefield injuries. They have laid it ALL on the line for you. For me. For this great nation. The least we can do is ensure that our veterans are treated with the dignity, the respect, and the honor that they have rightfully earned. It is my hope that the Senate VA Committee will soon take up my bill so that we can work to ensure accountability and greater access and care for all veterans. But whether it be my legislation, or any other piece of legislation…one thing is for sure… Something has to be done NOW. The current system is not working, and continues to let our veterans down. Nevertheless, I am optimistic that we can deliver on the promises that we gave our men and women in uniform. I am optimistic that we can make this right on their behalf. But we cannot wait. Time is not a luxury that our veterans have. So, Mr. President, I ask that everyone in this congressional body, and especially the VA, always remember the stories of veterans such as Alison Bush. And may we never forget those who set aside their own dreams to answer the call of duty. Our veterans have honorably served this great nation. NOW is the time that we step up and honorably serve them. Mr. President, I yield the floor. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
01.16.2018	01.16.18 Gardner, Cantwell Introduce Legislation to Modernize Firefighting Technology Washington D.C. —U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Maria Cantwell (D-WA) introduced the Wildfire Management Technology Advancement Act of 2017, a bill designed to bring firefighting agencies into the 21st century. This bill will increase firefighter safety by requiring the Forest Service and the Department of the Interior to begin providing GPS locations for crews on wildfires and to begin using Unmanned Aircraft Systems to scout out and map wildfires in real-time. Wildfire Today refers to the simultaneous use of mapping aircraft and GPS locators as the ‘Holy Grail’ of firefighter safety. “Our firefighters in Colorado and around the country risk everything to protect our communities and it is our duty to make sure they have every possible tool at their disposal to safely fight wildfires,” said Gardner. “The Center of Excellence for Advanced Technology Aerial Firefighting in Colorado develops cutting-edge technologies and this legislation will compliment those efforts. I will work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to make sure this important, common-sense bill becomes law.” “Firefighters on the front lines and those who give their lives to protect us deserve fair treatment from their government,” Senator Cantwell said. “My legislation would combine these two technologies [real-time fire mapping and GPS locating] to give our firefighters more safety and security as they deal with these unbelievable conditions.” In addition to the use of advanced technology, the Wildfire Management Technology Advancement Act of 2017 requires that trends in firefighter injuries be analyzed in order to target training to prevent future injuries and fatalities. Communities and businesses would also benefit from provisions in the Wildfire Management Technology Advancement Act of 2017. This bill directs the Agencies to work with NASA’s Jet Propulsion Lab and the Department of the Interior’s National Labs, e.g., the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, to better predict the areas that will most likely experience large wildfires during fire season. These forecasts will allow for agencies to more strategically stage resources before fires occur. In addition, this legislation requires smoke forecasters be assigned to all large wildfires to provide the most accurate information to those impacted by a wildfire. Finally, this bill includes provisions to streamline firefighting response. Cost-share funding is authorized for at-risk communities to install and operate next-generation reverse-911 systems, potentially speeding up evacuations and saving lives. This legislation also authorizes disaster agencies to make use of NASA’s tools to speed-up the installation of post-fire, erosion-prevention measures. The Wildfire Management Technology Advancement Act of 2017 has received support from national firefighter organizations: "Wildland firefighters need the support of Congress to get federal agencies to utilize the best available science and most advanced technology in federal fire management. The past two decades have seen millions of tax dollars invested in research and development of high-tech tools that can accurately map, monitor, and model wildfire spread. Senator Cantwell's proposed legislation will enable us to reap the benefits of those investments to improve the safety and success of crews managing wildfires," said Timothy Ingalsbee, executive director of Firefighters United for Safety, Ethics, and Ecology. “Wildfires are having an increasing impact on public and firefighter safety,” said Lorraine Carli, Vice President of Outreach and Advocacy for the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA). “Legislative support for technologies that streamline firefighting response and improve safety conditions for first responders and residents alike is critical as this threat grows. This bill will help get key scientific research and knowledge applied where it will make a significant difference.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
01.15.2018	01.15.18 Gardner Statement on Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Washington, DC - Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the below statement on Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.: “Today, we honor the life and legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and commit ourselves to emulate his values and fulfill his dream,” said Gardner. “Dr. King preached tolerance and love above all else and it is our duty to live up to these goals. More unites Americans than divides us and we should strive to always be looking for what we have in common with one another instead of focusing on how we are different. Dr. King transformed this country and it falls upon each one of us to continue his work.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
01.12.2018	01.12.18 Bipartisan Gardner-Hassan Connected Government Act Signed into Law WASHINGTON – This week, the bipartisan Connected Government Act, which was introduced by Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Maggie Hassan (D-NH), was signed into law by President Trump. The Connected Government Act will expand access to government services and information by requiring that all new federal websites are mobile-friendly. The bipartisan measure supports Americans who experience disabilities given that 80 percent of Americans who experience disabilities use wireless technology every day. The measure also supports low-income Americans who rely on mobile broadband at higher rates. I am thrilled the President has signed this common-sense bipartisan legislation into law,” said Senator Gardner. “As more and more Americans rely on their mobile devices to access information and websites, it’s important the federal government has websites designed for mobile platforms. The Connected Government Act will promote transparency and bring the government into the 21st century.” “I am pleased that the bipartisan Connected Government Act has been signed into law so that Granite Staters and Americans who rely on mobile devices to use the web – including low-income Americans and those who experience disabilities – can now better access government services, resources, and information,” Senator Hassan said. “I will continue working to bring the federal government up to speed with the latest technology so that our people, our businesses, and our economy can thrive.” The Connected Government Act requires that all new government websites intended to be used by the public are mobile-friendly. The bill also requires the General Services Administration to submit a report to Congress on agency compliance with this law within 18 months of enactment. Congresswoman Robin Kelly (D-IL) and Frank Pallone (D-NJ) introduced the companion to this bill in the U.S. House of Representatives. The bill passed the U.S. House of Representatives on November 15, 2017 and it passed the Senate on December 21, 2017. See bill text here. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
01.11.2018	01.11.18 Gardner, Bennet & Bipartisan Senators Reach Agreement on Immigration Washington, D.C. —Colorado U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R) and Michael Bennet (D), along with U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-SC), Dick Durbin (D-IL), Jeff Flake (R-AZ), and Robert Menendez (D-NJ), released the following statement after reaching a bipartisan agreement on immigration: “President Trump called on Congress to solve the DACA challenge. We have been working for four months and have reached an agreement in principle that addresses border security, the diversity visa lottery, chain migration/family reunification, and the Dream Act—the areas outlined by the President. We are now working to build support for that deal in Congress.” ###
01.10.2018	01.10.18 Gardner Statement on Meeting with Attorney General Sessions Washington, DC - Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statement following his meeting with Attorney General Jeff Sessions. “Earlier today I met with Attorney General Sessions to further discuss the Justice Department’s decision to rescind current policy on legal marijuana enforcement. I reiterated my concern that states’ rights were being infringed on through this action and we agreed to continue talks. I also hope to expand these discussions with the Justice Department to include several of my Democrat and Republican colleagues about what steps can be taken legislatively to protect Colorado’s rights.” On Tuesday, Senator Gardner organized and led a meeting with Republican and Democrat senators that share his concerns with the DOJ decision. They will continue to work together on legislative steps that can be taken to restore states’ rights impacted by this latest action. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
01.09.2018	01.09.18 Gardner Statement on Bipartisan Immigration Meeting at the White House Washington, DC - Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statement following the bipartisan immigration meeting at the White House hosted by President Trump: “Today we had a productive meeting where we discussed the parameters of a bipartisan immigration deal, and thanks to this meeting I expect the pace of negotiations will increase,” said Gardner. “The President bringing Democrats and Republicans from the House and Senate together was an important step and I look forward to getting back to work with my colleagues to negotiate a bipartisan pathway forward.” In September, Gardner and Senator Michael Bennet (D-CO) joined together to cosponsor the Dream Act. The Dream Act of 2017 would allow a select group of young immigrants, known as Dreamers, to contribute more fully to the only country they know as home and offer a pathway to earned citizenship. The legislation would grant conditional permanent residence followed by lawful permanent residence to young people who arrive in the United States before they turn 18; graduate from high school or obtained a GED; pursue higher education, work lawfully for at least 3 years, or serve in the military; pass security checks; and demonstrate proficiency in English and a knowledge of U.S. history. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
01.09.2018	01.09.18 ICYMI: Gardner Discusses Immigration, Infrastructure, and States’ Rights on Bloomberg Washington, DC - Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today joined Bloomberg’s Daybreak to discuss immigration reform, infrastructure, states’ rights, and more. Click here to view the video. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
01.04.2018	01.04.18 Gardner Defends States’ Rights on Senate Floor Gardner: “This is about a decision by the state of Colorado and we were told states’ rights would be protected” Washington, DC - Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today spoke on the Senate floor regarding the reported action being taken by the Justice Department on marijuana legalization enforcement. Click here to view Gardner’s remarks. Earlier today, Gardner released the below statement: “Reports that the Justice Department will rescind their current policy on legal marijuana enforcement are extremely alarming. Before I voted to confirm Attorney General Sessions, he assured me that marijuana would not be a priority for this Administration. Today’s action directly contradicts what I was told, and I am prepared to take all steps necessary, including holding DOJ nominees, until the Attorney General lives up to the commitment he made to me prior to his confirmation. In 2016, President Trump said marijuana legalization should be left up to the states and I agree.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
01.04.2018	01.04.18 Gardner Statement on DOJ Marijuana Legalization Enforcement Washington, DC - Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the below statement following the reported action being taken by the Justice Department on marijuana legalization enforcement: “Reports that the Justice Department will rescind their current policy on legal marijuana enforcement are extremely alarming. Before I voted to confirm Attorney General Sessions, he assured me that marijuana would not be a priority for this Administration. Today’s action directly contradicts what I was told, and I am prepared to take all steps necessary, including holding DOJ nominees, until the Attorney General lives up to the commitment he made to me prior to his confirmation. In 2016, President Trump said marijuana legalization should be left up to the states and I agree.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
01.03.2018	01.03.18 Gardner Honors Fallen Douglas County Deputy Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today spoke on the Senate floor about the horrible tragedy that occurred in Douglas County on December 31st and to honor the life and legacy of fallen Douglas County Sheriff’s Deputy Zackari Parrish. Click here to view Gardner’s remarks. Remarks as prepared for delivery: Mr. President: I rise today to speak about a horrible tragedy that occurred in Douglas County, Colorado in the early hours of December 31st. A Gunman opened fire on Douglas County Sherriff’s Deputies in what has been described by law enforcement as an “ambush style” attack. The gunman injured two citizens, as well as Sheriff’s Deputies Michael Doyle, Jeff Pelle, Taylor Davis, and Castle Rock Police Department Officer Thomas O’Donnell. A fifth officer, Douglas County Sheriff’s Deputy Zackari Parrish heroically gave his life during this ambush in an attempt to save others. Zack who was 29 years old, is survived by his wife Gracie and their two young daughters. Zack’s life-long dream was to become a police officer and he attended Arapahoe Community College Law Enforcement Academy part-time, while working at a bank full-time to make this dream come true. Following graduation, Zack served for two years as an officer at the Castle Rock Police Department and spent the last seven months as a Douglas County Sherriff’s Deputy. His self-less nature and devotion to his family and friends was a testament to his tireless drive to protect his community. He was what every officer strives to be. Dedicated to the job, persistent… and detailed oriented! At a vigil honoring Zack earlier this week, his fellow deputies shared Zack’s “knack for finding things other cops missed.” They spoke of “how he always wanted to chase the bad guys.” And how even when it was time to go home, Zack would “stay late to make one more check on patrol.” His family and friends spoke of how Zack was known for his “bear-sized love,” and even more so for his bear-sized hugs! THESE are the qualities of those who righteously wear the blue uniform. THESE are the qualities that keep the rest of us safe and sound. THESE are the qualities of a local hero. Zack – like all law enforcement officers – went to work each and every day prepared to walk that thin blue line. Colleagues at the vigil also spoke about how Zack was not only dedicated to the difficult parts of the job, but also spoke about his dedication to lift the spirits of his fellow officers. According to his fellow Deputies, Zack was known as the guy that would “hunt for the best Christmas lights,” It’s that kind of passion, good nature, and of course, love for his community, that Zack will be remembered for. As we saw on New Years Eve, while the rest of us spend time with family and friends, our brave law enforcement officers are protecting our communities. Their sacrifice is WHY we are able to celebrate with our loved ones. We owe everything to Zack and law enforcement officers across Colorado and across the country for their service. When a tragic event like this unfolds, I’m often reminded of the words of Lieutenant Colonel Dave Grossman who wrote that American law enforcement is the loyal and brave sheep dog, always standing watch for the wolf that lurks in the dark. Regardless of their personal safety, our law enforcement officers run toward the danger. They are always there to help others and serve our communities. And often through the worst of times they provide hope and safety to our families, including mine. I will continue to pray for the other four officers and two citizens who were injured in the attack. And we must continue to honor Zack’s memory and support his brothers in blue as they continue his work. Thank you, Zack, for your devotion to others, and your sacrifice so that others may live. I will continue to pray for your family and look forward to your daughters carrying on your proud legacy. Mr. President, I yield the floor. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
12.31.2017	12.31.17 Gardner Statement on Douglas County Incident Washington, DC - Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the below statement following the officer-involved shooting in Douglas County: “My heart breaks for all of those affected by the terrible tragedy in Douglas County. Jaime and I are praying for the citizens and Deputies injured at the scene, and our hearts go out to the family of the Deputy who was fatally wounded. Our law enforcement officers work tirelessly every day to keep our communities safe and today all of Colorado stands with our law enforcement community.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
12.21.2017	12.21.17 Gardner Supports Potential CHIP Funding Extension in CR but More Needs to be Done Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the below statement regarding discussions to allow the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to provide sufficient funding for the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) to March 31st in the Continuing Resolution (CR) that Congress will consider as soon as today. Cancellation notices for Colorado are expected to go out on December 26th if Congress does not act this week to extend funding. “I will do everything I can to ensure that the 90,000 Colorado children and pregnant mothers that utilize CHIP do not go a day without this funding,” Gardner said. “While the five year extension of CHIP funding that Senator Bennet and I continue to push in the Senate is by far the best path forward for Coloradans, absent movement on that legislation today we need to make sure funding is extended past Colorado’s deadline of January 31st. “I support the inclusion of language in the must-pass CR that allows CHIP funding to continue while a long-term bipartisan agreement is worked out.” Senator Gardner is one of six Republicans to sponsor The Keeping Kids’ Insurance Dependable and Secure (KIDS) Act, legislation to extend CHIP funding through Fiscal Year (FY) 2022. ###
12.20.2017	12.20.17 Gardner Statement on Historic Tax Relief Legislation Passing Senate Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the below statement following the Senate’s approval of the tax relief legislation: “After 31 years, the American people will no longer be forced to deal with an Atari-era tax code that is outdated and overly complicated. Congress has finally answered the call to cut taxes and reform the tax code, and I’m proud to help deliver this relief to all of Colorado. At the beginning of this process, my goal was to bring relief to hardworking Coloradans throughout the four corners of our great state, and I’m proud that after months of work we have achieved this goal. Coloradans at every income level will receive a tax cut and popular provisions that help hardworking Coloradans like greater tax relief for childcare services, the student loan interest deduction, the medical expense deduction, and tax breaks for teachers are all part of the final bill. “After years of complacency and being told we have to accept meager economic growth, the American people will once again see their economy accelerate. This tax relief package will lead to economic growth, higher wages, and more jobs. The American people sent their representatives to Washington to bring relief and I’m proud to have delivered on this promise during the first year of a unified Republican government.” Click here to download the video statement. Click here for audio of Gardner’s statement. Background on Tax Relief Legislation The nonpartisan Tax Foundation concludes that the legislation would boost long-run GDP, create 339,000 new full-time equivalent jobs, and increase wages. Impact on individuals and families It lowers the individual tax rates for low-and middle-income Americans by expanding the zero tax bracket and maintaining the 10 percent bracket. This is to ensure that the people seeing the most positive outcome from this legislation are low and middle income Coloradans It doubles the standard deduction to protect even more income from being considered taxable income. This would help tens of millions of Americans by increasing the amount of income shielded from taxation while simultaneously simplifying their income taxes A family of four receiving the median family income ($73,000) would see a tax cut of more than $2,000 A single parent with two children and an income of $52,000 will see a tax cut of nearly $1,900 Expands the child tax credit from $1,000 to $2,000 and increases the refundable portion to $1,400 It also protects benefits like the adoption tax credit, student loan interest deduction, the medical expense deduction, and the deduction for charitable contributions Impact on small businesses and job creation It reduces the corporate tax rate from 35% (which is the highest in the industrialized world) to 21%, which puts American businesses on a level playing field with competitors in other countries It also gives tax relief to Main Street’s job creators by creating the first ever 20% deduction for pass through businesses It will lead to new jobs and investments by allowing these businesses to keep more of their profits to invest back into their businesses
12.14.2017	12.14.17 Gardner, Bipartisan Senators Introduce Legislation to Combat Sexual Harassment in Congress Gardner: “Let me be extremely clear: sexual harassment and workplace misconduct has no place in America, and certainly has no place in the United States Congress” Washington, DC – U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Ted Cruz (R-TX), along with several of their colleagues, today introduced new bipartisan legislation that would overhaul the current process that victims of harassment in Congress must go through when reporting a claim, eliminate the use of taxpayer funds to pay out claims, and increase public disclosure of claims against Members. The current process for victims of harassment in Congress lacks transparency and is difficult to navigate. This legislation, the Congressional Harassment Reform Act, would bring transparency and accountability to the current process by extending protections to interns and fellows, eliminating forced mediation, ending the current required secrecy in the process by allowing victims to speak publicly about their case, requiring Members of Congress found personally liable for harassment to pay settlements out of their own pockets, and improving systems to address harassment and discrimination in Congress. “Over the past few months, our country has experienced a much-needed transformation when it comes to listening to courageous women share their stories about harassment. No one should be forced to work in an environment where they are made to feel uncomfortable or intimidated. Let me be extremely clear: sexual harassment and workplace misconduct has no place in America, and certainly has no place in the United States Congress,” said Senator Gardner. “I’m proud to join Senators Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Ted Cruz (R-TX), and my other colleagues on both sides of the aisle, to introduce this bipartisanlegislation that reforms the way Congress deals with harassment. This legislation ensures we have an open, transparent process that does not leave the taxpayers on the hook for Members of Congress’ misconduct. I’m proud to introduce this bill today and call on each of my colleagues to support this important proposal.” “Congress should never be above the law or play by their own set of rules,” said Senator Gillibrand. “We should treat every person who works here with respect and dignity, and that means creating a climate where there is accountability, fairness, respect, and access to justice if sexual harassment takes place. There are real costs to sexual harassment in the workplace. We now know that many people quit their jobs because of it, or miss out on promotions or raises, all of which can throw off the entire trajectory in their careers. We must ensure that Congress handles complaints to create an environment where staffers can come forward if something happens to them, without having to fear that it will ruin their careers. This bipartisan legislation would bring us much closer to that goal.” “Sexual harassment is wrong. Every person, man or woman, deserves to be treated with dignity and respect in the workplace,” said Senator Cruz. “In recent months, we've seen wave after wave of appalling sexual harassment and assault allegations -- from Hollywood, to newsrooms, to the halls of Congress. And powerful men who have abused their positions have been held to account. Congress is not above the laws, and secret settlements with taxpayer money to cover up harassment should no longer be tolerated. This legislation seeks to empower victims of harassment to report those crimes and to hold the perpetrators accountable." Specifically, the Congressional Harassment Reform Act would do the following: Extends protections to interns and fellows. Requires everyone working on Capitol Hill, including Members, to take the Office of Compliance training. Changes the name of the Office of Compliance (OOC) to the Office of Congressional Workplace Rights. Puts victims in the driver’s seat by allowing them to choose how to resolve their complaint (e.g. counseling and mediation are both no longer mandatory) and protecting their option to discuss their claim publicly Establishes a Confidential Advisor to consult, on a confidential basis, with any employee who has alleged harassment or discrimination; and assist any employee who has an allegation under Title IV in understanding the procedures, and the significance of the procedures. Gives OOC’s General Counsel the authority to conduct interviews and gather evidence regarding complaints of covered harassment and discrimination filed under this section, including interviews with former employees. Allows individuals to work remotely without penalty throughout proceedings. Improves tracking of complaints and procedures by implementing an online platform. If a Member of Congress is found to be personally liable for harassment or discrimination, they will be responsible for the cost of any settlement. If a Member of Congress is found to be personally liable for harassment or discrimination, any settlement must be approved by the appropriate Senate or House committee. Requires settlements to be publicly disclosed unless the victims choose to keep them private or the Member of Congress is found to have not committed the harassment or discrimination. Requires offices to post notices with information about employees’ rights and how to contact the Office of Compliance. Provides for a climate survey to identify the pervasiveness of the problem and what gaps continue to exist in its resolution. ###
12.11.2017	12.11.17 ICYMI: Gardner Applauds EPA Decision to Elevate Bonita Peak Mining District as a Priority Superfund Site Designation Includes Gold King Mine Area Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the below statement applauding the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) decision to list the Bonita Peak mining district as a top priority superfund cleanup site. “Administrator Pruitt assured me when I met with him before his confirmation and when we visited the site in August that the EPA would make the right decision for the people of Southwest Colorado, and I appreciate his agency following through on their promise,” Gardner said. “The Gold King mine spill has had a significant impact on our state and there will continue to be a lot of work done by our elected officials and community. This latest commitment to the Bonita Peak Mining District along with continued attention to Pueblo cleanup actions are important steps in the progress that needs to be made by the EPA at both locations.” Gardner, along with his colleagues in the Colorado Congressional delegation, has been working since the Gold King Mine spill occurred in 2015 to make sure Southwest Colorado has the necessary resources to clean up abandoned mines and prevent a similar catastrophe from happening in the future. Before voting to confirm Scott Pruitt as EPA Administrator, Gardner secured a commitment from Pruitt to work together to address the continued fallout from the Gold King Mine spill. In March, Gardner invited EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt to visit Southwest Colorado to hear from Coloradans regarding the Gold King Mine spill. According to the EPA, the Bonita Peak Mining District (BPMD) became a Superfund site on Sept. 9, 2016, when it was added to the National Priorities List. The site consists of historic and ongoing releases from mining operations in three drainages: Mineral Creek, Cement Creek and Upper Animas, which converge into the Animas River near Silverton, Colorado. The site includes 35 mines, seven tunnels, four tailings impoundments and two study areas where additional information is needed to evaluate environmental concerns. More information from the EPA can be found here. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
12.07.2017	12.07.17 Gardner Joins Bipartisan Group of Senators to Urge for an Extension of Secure Rural Schools Program Washington, D.C.— Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) joined a bipartisan group of senators, including Senator Michael Bennet (D-CO), in sending a letter to Senate leadership on Thursday to call for the inclusion of a reauthorization of the Secure Rural Schools (SRS) program in any end-of-year legislation. SRS supports public schools, public roads, forest health projects, emergency services, and many other essential county services for more than 775 counties across the country. “The SRS program continues to be a critical safety-net for forest counties as we work to diversify rural economies, improve forest management and forest health, strengthen historic forest revenue sharing with local governments, and ensure that our forests provide a range of values such as clean water, jobs, and wood fiber for local economies,” wrote the senators. “In the interest of working together in a bipartisan way to support local rural communities, we ask that you include a reauthorization of Secure Rural Schools in any end-of-the-year legislation. We appreciate your assistance with this matter.” The SRS program expired on September 30, 2015, and it has not been reauthorized for Fiscal Year 16 or beyond. Forest counties and schools received their last authorized SRS payment in 2016. Without SRS, existing revenue-sharing payments are not sufficient to support critical services these counties must provide. A copy of the letter is available HERE. ###
12.07.2017	12.07.17 WWII Veteran: “Senator Gardner made a promise and kept it.” Gardner Helps Secure Posthumous Bronze Star Medal for Pearl Harbor HeroGardner Helps Secure Posthumous Bronze Star Medal for Pearl Harbor Hero Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today spoke on the Senate floor to honor the U.S. Navy’s decision to award the Bronze Star Medal posthumously to Joseph George for saving six sailors stationed on the USS Arizona during the Pearl Harbor attack. On Veterans Day, Gardner visited with one of the sailors George saved, World War II veteran Donald Stratton, at his home in Colorado Springs where the two discussed Stratton’s “continuing effort to have the sailor who saved his life awarded a posthumous medal.” Mr. Stratton had been trying to get Joseph George honored for 16 years, and recently began to work with Senator Gardner to make it happen after all these years. (Click here or on the image above to view Gardner’s remarks.) “Joe George is an American hero and deserves this long-awaited honor,” said Gardner. "Colorado Springs resident, Donald Stratton, has been fighting the bureaucracy for 16 years, and was finally able to make sure Joe George was honored for saving his life, and five other lives, that fateful day. I met with Donald Stratton twice over the past few months and am honored I was able to work with him to honor Joe George. Veterans like Joe George and Donald Stratton are the best this country has to offer and I thank God every day for Americans like them.” “I thought that was the greatest thing since sliced bread,” said Donald Stratton. “I spoke what we wanted and Senator Gardner took it right to his heart. Senator Gardner made a promise and kept it. I just appreciate what he’s done. I knew when I met him that something was going to get done.” “Without Senator Gardner, we would have never got this done,” said Randy Stratton, Donald Stratton’s son. “He took the bull by the horns and got in touch with the right people to get this medal finished. We have been working for 16 years and with the phone calls he made, Senator Gardner got it done just like he promised. From the bottom of our hearts, thank you for making this dream, this effort come true.” KOAA covered Gardner’s Veterans Day visit and reported, “For one Colorado Springs veteran, Saturday morning meant a visit between him and Senator Cory Gardner. As the senator sat down on Donald Stratton's couch, the senator remarked it was one of the best Veteran's Days he's ever celebrated.” In July, Gardner met with Stratton and fellow USS Arizona survivor Lauren Bruner in his office in Washington. Stratton and Bruner were in Washington to visit with Members of Congress and President Trump to advocate for Joe George, the man who saved their life on December 7, 1941, to be awarded a medal posthumously for his heroic actions. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
12.05.2017	12.05.17 Gardner Announces Central 70 Project Funding Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today announced Kiewit Meridiam Partners LLC has been awarded a Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (TIFIA) loan of up to $416 million for the Central 70 Public-Private Partnership Project with the Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT). The project seeks to make several updates, including replacing a ten-mile segment of I-70 east of Denver, to help mitigate traffic and bolster safety. “I’m thrilled to announce this critical funding for the Central 70 Project, as this project was one of the major reasons I fought to protect TIFIA funding during consideration of the 2015 highway bill,” said Gardner. “With Colorado’s growing population, it’s important we ensure our state receives enough resources to properly serve Coloradans. Infrastructure affects everyone across our state and going forward, I’ll keep fighting for Colorado at the federal level.” In 2015, Senator Gardner led efforts in the Senate to block changes to the TIFIA program that would have jeopardized this project and several others across the state. If the transportation measure would have passed without Senator Gardner’s requested reforms, the TIFIA program would not have been able to move forward with loans like the one announced today. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
12.05.2017	12.05.17 Gardner Statement on Confirmation of Kirstjen Nielsen to Lead the Department of Homeland Security Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statement following the Senate’s confirmation of Kirstjen Nielsen to be Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security. “Kirstjen Nielsen’s expertise, years in public service, and focus on keeping Americans safe will serve her well as Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security,” said Gardner. “At a time when we face many threats at home and abroad we must remain vigilant and work together to prevent future attacks. I look forward to working with Ms. Nielsen to keep Coloradans and Americans safe.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
12.02.2017	12.02.17 Gardner Statement on Passage of Historic Tax Relief Legislation Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statement following the Senate’s passage of tax relief legislation. This legislation lowers the individual tax rates for low-and middle-income Americans by expanding the zero tax bracket and maintaining the 10 percent bracket. It doubles the standard deduction to reduce the amount of taxable income and expands the child tax credit from $1,000 to $2,000. It also protects deductions like the adoption tax credit, and the home mortgage interest deduction. Multiple analyses show that these pro-growth reforms will not just lead to thousands of dollars in lower taxes for middle class families, but also grow wages by thousands. Americans in every income group will have lower taxes. “For too long, too many Coloradans have felt left behind. They have been forced to cope with a tax system that favors the elites and gives advantages to those who know how to game the system. Today marks a historic day for our country. It has been over 30 years since Congress has passed major tax reform and I’m excited to bring tax relief to millions of Coloradans,” said Gardner. “Coloradans will keep more of their own money in their own pockets, and the American people will be able to invest their savings the way they want to, not how Washington dictates.” The Senate plan also calls for lowering the corporate tax rate to 20%. For years both sides of the aisle have recognized that our corporate tax code is uncompetitive and causing companies to leave the country in search of lower taxes. Even President Obama in his 2011 State of the Union Address advocated for lowering the corporate tax rate, saying, “For example, over the years, a parade of lobbyists has rigged the tax code to benefit particular companies and industries. Those with accountants or lawyers to work the system can end up paying no taxes at all. But all the rest are hit with one of the highest corporate tax rates in the world. It makes no sense, and it has to change." Gardner added: “We know workers bear much of the burden of the corporate tax rate and lowering the corporate tax rate will lead to bigger paychecks for hardworking Coloradans. The United States has the highest corporate tax rate in the industrialized world and in order for our businesses to be competitive, this must change. Businesses will finally bring their profits back to the United States and reinvest those dollars into their operation, which will lead to economic growth. Our country will see an economic resurgence as a result of this legislation and I’m proud to deliver tax relief to Colorado.” Click here to view Gardner’s video statement. Click here for audio of Gardner’s statement. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
11.29.2017	11.29.17 Gardner, Bennet Demand Accountability at VA for Unofficial Wait Lists Request Quarterly Reports on Progress Washington, D.C. – Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Michael Bennet (D-CO) today sent a letter to Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Secretary David Shulkin regarding the VA Inspector General report that found unofficial wait lists at a number of Colorado VA facilities. The Senators wrote, in part, “This practice of using unofficial wait lists is extremely concerning, and sows distrust amongst our veterans in the very system that exists to help them. Unofficial wait lists result in a lack of transparency and deny veterans the timely care that they deserve, ultimately putting our veterans at great risk.” Full text of the letter is below: Dear Secretary Shulkin, We write to urge you to ensure accountability following a November 16, 2017 report that the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Office of Inspector General (OIG) conducted, which substantiates the claim that the Eastern Colorado Health Care System (ECHCS) used unofficial wait lists for veteran health care. This report highlights serious mismanagement, and we urge you to review its findings and implement the OIG’s recommendations to ensure veterans in Colorado have a health system they deserve and to prevent future mismanagement from occurring. This practice of using unofficial wait lists is extremely concerning, and sows distrust amongst our veterans in the very system that exists to help them. Unofficial wait lists result in a lack of transparency and deny veterans the timely care that they deserve, ultimately putting our veterans at great risk. Unfortunately, the exact number of cases affected by this mismanagement is unknown due to the lack of documentation, but according to the OIG report, the VA placed at least 3,775 on the unofficial wait lists. This is unacceptable. It is critical that the VA holds bad actors overseeing these unofficial wait lists accountable. Moving forward, the VA must also take steps to ensure that it upholds its policy prohibiting the use of unofficial wait lists. Please provide a timely response on your plan of action to hold those overseeing this wrongdoing accountable. Additionally, we request that you provide us with quarterly reports on ECHCS’ progress ensuring that the VA is taking corrective action to address these and other wait times issues across the area. Thank you for your time, and we look forward to your response. Sincerely, ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
11.29.2017	11.29.17 Gardner, Hatch, Bennet, Heinrich, and Udall Introduce Legislation to Protect Endangered Species in Upper Colorado River Washington D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), along with Senators Orrin Hatch (R-UT), Michael Bennet (D-CO), Martin Heinrich (D-NM) and Tom Udall (D-NM), introduced the Endangered Fish Recovery Programs Extension Act of 2017. The legislation will continue to fund the Upper Colorado and San Juan fish recovery programs through FY2023, and aims to protect four primary endangered species in the Upper Colorado River Basin. “Protecting endangered species living in Colorado’s natural habitat can be done in a responsible manner, and I’m proud to introduce this bipartisan legislation,” said Gardner. “Upper Colorado River Endangered Fish Recovery Program is a great example of a partnership between federal, state, and local agencies to promote conservation. It’s important we provide adequate resources to this project to ensure our partners on the ground have the necessary tools to protect these endangered species.” “I’m happy to join my Western colleagues—including Utah’s newly elected Representative John Curtis—in introducing this commonsense legislation. Our bipartisan bill builds on the successful conservation efforts on the Upper Colorado River, encouraging the federal government to work in cooperation with Western states,” said Hatch. “This proposal will help guide the sustainable usage of our water resources in a way that fosters both species recovery and responsible development.” “The Endangered Fish Recovery Programs are exemplary of the successful, collaborative conservation championed in the West by states, tribes, federal agencies, and other stakeholders,”said Bennet. “This bipartisan bill provides the resources to continue recovery efforts in the Upper Colorado River and to ensure that these endangered fish species are protected for years to come.” “The San Juan and Upper Colorado River Fish Recovery Programs are vital to rebuilding our native fish populations that are an important part of our state’s heritage,” said Heinrich. “We cannot allow these important conservation programs to lapse and threaten the progress we’ve made up to this point. This bipartisan legislation will ensure federal, state and local agencies have the resources they need to continue protecting endangered species in the Upper Colorado River Basin.” “The San Juan River Basin is an important region in New Mexico’s ecology, and I am pleased to introduce this bipartisan legislation to continue the collaborative efforts to help protect the area's endangered species,” said Udall. “The most successful way we can balance the needs of water security with species conservation is to work collaboratively with local, state, Tribal, federal and non-governmental partners to find solutions. This initiative has been an excellent example of how we can conserve natural habitats by working together.” Representative John Curtis (UT-3) introduced the House companion legislation. ###
11.28.2017	11.28.17 Gardner Statement on Budget Committee Passage of Tax Relief Package Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), a member of the Senate Budget Committee, released the below statement following the Budget Committee voting to send the Tax Cut and Jobs Act to the Senate floor: “Today marked an important step forward to bring Coloradans and the American people tax relief,” said Gardner. “This legislation will increase wages, grow the economy, create jobs, and benefit hardworking Coloradans. I look forward to the bill being debated on the Senate floor through an open amendment process, and I’m hopeful my colleagues from both sides of the aisle will work together to bring much needed tax relief to the American people.” Gardner released a statement when the original legislation was introduced at the beginning of the month. Background on Senate Tax Relief Legislation The Council for Economic Advisors (CEA) estimates that simply lowering the corporate income tax rate to 20% will result in the median wage for the average Colorado Household increasing by $4,385. The academic literature cited by the CEA suggests the wage gains could even be up to $9,000 or more. · Lowers the individuate tax rates for low-and middle-income Americans by expanding the zero tax bracket and maintaining the 10 percent bracket · Doubles the standard deduction to protect even more income from being considered taxable income · A family of four earning the median family income ($73,000) would see a tax cut of nearly $2,200 · A single parent with one child and an income of $41,000 will see a tax cut of more than $1,400 · Expands the child tax credit from $1,000 to $2,000, lowers the threshold income required for the refundable portion of the credit, and indexes the refundable portion for inflation ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
11.28.2017	11.28.17 Gardner Introduces Legislation to Fix Veterans Affairs Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today he has introduced the Veterans Improved Access and Care Act of 2017, legislation designed to increase access to care for our nation’s veterans and reform the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) hiring process to make it easier to fill staffing shortages at the agency. This legislation follows an explosive Inspector General report Gardner demanded that revealed secret wait lists at a number of Colorado VA facilities. According to a Denver Post report, the average wait time to see a primary physician at a VA facility nationwide is 4.8 days, but the Eastern Colorado Healthcare System (ECHCS) has an average wait time of eleven days, Grand Junction’s average wait time is 18 days, and 13.5% of all appointments at the ECHCS had longer than a 30-day wait. Under current law, the CHOICE Act, a veteran can see a medical professional outside the VA system if they have to wait longer than 30 days for an appointment or live more than 40 miles away from a VA facility. The Veterans Improved Access and Care Act expands on the success of the CHOICE Act by eliminating the 30 day, 40 mile eligibility rule, giving veterans full access to private and local medical care regardless of their situation or location. “Our veterans, who have given so much to our country, should have access to the best possible care in a timely manner,” said Gardner. “Colorado veterans have been put on secret wait lists and denied access to care they have earned. This is unacceptable and it must change. My legislation will expand the CHOICE program and allow veterans to see the doctor they choose and not be hamstrung by the VA bureaucracy. It’s time we put partisan politics aside and deliver on our promise to our veterans.” Many VA hospitals continue to experience long wait times and staffing shortages as a result of a lengthy hiring process, and a primary driver of the protracted hiring process is the onboarding process for licensed medical providers. According to a McKinsey and Company Assessment from September 2015, the VA hiring timeline spans 4-8 months while a typical private sector organization hires staff between 0.5 and 2 months. Furthermore, “candidates for many roles are often unwilling to wait roughly six months to be on boarded, especially when positions with other hospitals are readily available.” Gardner’s legislation aims to address this problem by authorizing the VA to establish a pilot program to expedite the hiring of licensed medical professionals in locations where there are shortages of available specialists. The bill also requires the VA Secretary to submit a report detailing a strategy on how to reduce the length of the VA’s hiring process by half for licensed medical professionals. Gardner added: “In order to reduce wait times and provide timely care to our veterans, we must address the root of the problem at many VA facilities in Colorado and across the country: staffing shortages. When it comes to the VA hiring medical professionals we cannot let government bureaucracy and red tape stand in the way. The VA Secretary needs to take meaningful action to reform the hiring process and make sure facilities are able to hire the medical professionals needed to serve our veterans.” Gardner’s legislation will also turn into law the requirement for the VA to report all major disciplinary action taken against medical providers to be reported to a national database that was originally established by Congress. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
11.23.2017	11.23.17 Gardner Statement Celebrating Thanksgiving Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the below statement celebrating Thanksgiving: “Thanksgiving is a blessed time to spend with family and friends and reflect on all that we are thankful for. As a Coloradan, I’m thankful for living in the greatest state in the greatest country on earth. We live in a free, democratic society where every person has a right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. I’m thankful for the men and women in uniform, many of whom are unable to be with their families today, who defend these freedoms. To all living in the Centennial state and around the country, I wish you a happy Thanksgiving and hope you have a wonderful start to this holiday season.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
11.20.2017	11.20.17 Gardner Statement on Designation of North Korea as a State Sponsor of Terror Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the below statement following President Trump’s announcement that he will designate North Korea as a state sponsor of terror. “I applaud the Administration’s decision to designate North Korea as a state sponsor of terror, which is something I have been pushing the Trump Administration to do for several months,” said Gardner. “North Korea imprisons and tortures their own citizens, murdered American citizen Otto Warmbier, and continues to defy international sanctions. Their evil knows no limits and it is time the United States applies maximum pressure to contain this rogue regime. I will continue to work with the Administration to sanction all entities, wherever they may be based, that aide North Korea's nuclear program.” Gardner authored the North Korea Sanctions Policy and Enhancement Act, which was signed into law by President Obama in February of 2016 and marked the first time Congress imposed stand-alone mandatory sanctions on North Korea. Gardner recently introduced comprehensive bipartisan legislation to impose an economic and diplomatic embargo against North Korea and its enablers, and to authorize efforts to combat Pyongyang’s widespread human rights and labor trafficking abuses. He has also sent a letter to Ambassadors of nations maintaining diplomatic ties with North Korea, calling on these nations to cease all official diplomatic and economic relations with North Korea. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
11.17.2017	11.17.17 Senate Tax Reform to Include Bipartisan Investing in Opportunity Act Washington, D.C. - In a major step toward helping distressed communities nationwide, U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Tim Scott (R-SC), along with a group of their colleagues, announced that the amended Senate tax reform plan will include the bipartisan Investing in Opportunity Act (IIOA) as a part of the tax reform bill that will be voted on by the full Senate in the coming weeks. The IIOA incentivizes investment in economically distressed areas by allowing trillions of dollars in private capital to be used to encourage small businesses, support entrepreneurs, and to develop dilapidated properties in zip codes most in need of a resurgence. “As a fifth generation Coloradan who grew up on the Eastern Plains, I know how important it is to attract growth to local communities, and particularly rural communities, in Colorado,” said Gardner. “The Investing in Opportunity Act will encourage investment, incite growth, and extend opportunities to communities that are struggling. This commonsense legislation is a stepping stone to restoring faith in the American Dream for some people who feel like they have been left behind.” “Since I entered Congress, my goal was simple: create opportunity for everyday Americans wherever possible,” said Scott. “It is a passion because I grew up in a single-parent household, surrounded in poverty, with very little expectation that I would find my way to success. But I learned that opportunity can truly be the difference that changes the course of one’s life. I know that when the IIOA is passed, when it actually reaches the people it’s intended to help, the results will be truly amazing because it will help everyday people in South Carolina and beyond build their way to a brighter future.” “It’s time to give our middle class the boost they need following several years of job loss and economic distress,” said Sen. Capito (R-WV).“The Investing in Opportunity Act can help spur growth in these communities and level the playing field, creating new opportunity in West Virginia and other regions. I’m pleased to see it included in the latest version of the Senate’s tax proposal.” “I am thrilled that our legislation, the Investing in Opportunity Act, has been included in the Senate tax reform plan,” said Sen. Ernst (R-IA). “This provision compliments much-needed tax relief for low and middle-income earners. By incentivizing private investment in struggling communities, it would spur economic growth in poverty-stricken areas, bringing hope and opportunity back to many distressed rural communities in Iowa.” "Too many low-income Ohioans have been left behind as our broken tax code hampered economic growth," said Sen. Portman (R-OH). "I’m pleased that the Investing in Opportunity Act was included in our landmark tax reform package to pave the way for long-term investments in Ohio’s small businesses and entrepreneurs, which in turn means more jobs and opportunities for the families in distressed communities across our state. Every hard-working Ohioan should be able to reach their God-given potential." "Lack of opportunity is a common circumstance in distressed communities across the country," said Sen. Young (R-IN). "This proposal is a common-sense way to unleash investment and entrepreneurship in distressed communities to create hope and new opportunity. Ultimately, this is exactly the kind of behavior we should strive to promote and incentivize." There are currently 52 million Americans living in distressed communities across the country, and trillions of dollars in unrealized capital gains sitting on the sidelines. The IIOA would provide an opportunity for U.S. investors to use a temporary capital gains referral in exchange for investing the capital in these communities. This public-private partnership will create new channels for investment that will grow jobs, inspire entrepreneurship, and improve the local economy for future generations. ###
11.17.2017	11.17.17 Gardner to Hold Pueblo Town Hall Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) will hold a town hall meeting on Monday, November 20th in Pueblo. It will be Senator Gardner’s 6th town hall since August. Constituents are encouraged to arrive early, as space is limited. The event is open to the public and the media. If you are a member of the media interested in attending the event, please RSVP by sending an email to Senator Gardner’s Deputy Press Secretary, Jerrod Dobkin, at Jerrod_Dobkin@gardner.senate.gov PUEBLO TOWN HALL Who: U.S. Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) What: Pueblo Town Hall When: Monday, November 20th, 11:30 a.m. – 1:00 p.m. MT Doors open at 10:30 a.m. MT Where: Pueblo Convention Center 320 Central Main St, Pueblo, CO 81003 Parking: Please use the SRDA parking lot (located off Alan Hammel between Union Ave and Central Main Street) NOTE: Date and time are subject to change per Senate schedule. Gardner’s office will make an additional announcement if the schedule changes. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
11.16.2017	11.16.17 Gardner, Johnson Statement on Secret Wait Lists at Colorado VA Facilities WASHINGTON — U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R-Colo.) and Ron Johnson (R-Wis.), chairman of the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, released the following statements on Thursday following a Department of Veterans Affairs Inspector General report finding secret wait lists at a number of Colorado VA facilities. Johnson and Gardner requested the inspector general investigation in September 2016. “My worst fears have been realized in this Inspector General’s report that Chairman Johnson and I demanded,” Gardner said. “It highlights even more VA mismanagement and lack of accountability in Colorado. This cannot happen again, and it’s time for the VA to finally wake up and ensure our men and women are getting the best care possible. I will continue to work with Chairman Johnson to ensure the accountability that somehow the VA refuses to accept.” “Putting veterans on secret wait lists is not acceptable. The VA should implement changes to provide the highest quality care for our veterans and hold wrongdoers accountable. I thank Brian Smothers, the whistleblower who bravely came forward to shed a light on these unacceptable practices at the VA so they can be prevented in the future,” Johnson said. The VA IG report that senators Johnson and Gardner requested can be found here. In September 2016 senators Johnson and Gardner requested that the Department of Veterans Affairs Inspector General Michael Missal open an inquiry into possible wait lists that may have contributed to a veteran’s suicide while waiting for post-traumatic stress disorder treatment at a Colorado Springs Veterans Affairs facility. A whistleblower alleged that the facility might have falsified the veteran’s medical records following his death. The senators’ September 2016 letter to Missal is available here. ###
11.15.2017	11.15.17 Gardner Joins Effort to Reform Tax Laws on Marijuana Businesses Washington, D.C.– Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today announced he is cosponsoring the Small Business Tax Equity Act introduced by Senators Rand Paul (R-KY) and Ron Wyden (D-OR). If passed and signed into law, this legislation will ensure marijuana businesses legally operating in Colorado and other states that have legalized the sale of marijuana are able to utilize common business tax deductions and credits, such as those for normal business expenses or for hiring veterans. Currently, a marijuana business is not able to use these provisions when filing their taxes. “Our current tax code puts thousands of legal marijuana businesses throughout Colorado at a disadvantage by treating them differently than other businesses across the state,” said Gardner. “Coloradans made their voices heard in 2012 when they legalized marijuana and it’s time for the federal government to allow Colorado businesses to compete. This commonsense, bipartisan bill will allow small businesses in Colorado and other states that have legal marijuana businesses to grow their operations, create jobs, and boost the economy.” "I commend Senator Gardner for fighting for Colorado's small businesses,” said Sal Pace, former Democratic Leader in the Colorado State House and sitting Pueblo County Commissioner. “By sponsoring S.777, Senator Gardner is saying that he wants to put millions of dollars back into Colorado's economy. This is a watershed moment. We don't hear of a lot of bipartisanship these days. But, this Democrat wants to publicly thank Senator Gardner for his leadership." "Because of section 280E of the tax code, marijuana businesses operating legally under state law face a federal income tax rate of 80 percent,” said Grover Norquist, Founder and President of Americans for Tax Reform. “The Small Business Tax Equity Act is a commonsense fix to this and Sen. Gardner should be applauded for his leadership on this issue." ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
11.09.2017	11.09.17 Gardner on Senate’s Tax Relief Legislation Washington, D.C.– Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statement following the release of tax relief legislation in the Senate. This is a big step in bringing tax relief to Coloradans in the form of lower, simpler personal taxes and more competitive business taxes that will lead to more jobs and higher wages for Coloradans. Bipartisan hearings will take place in the coming weeks. “For too long, Coloradans and Americans across the country have felt like they’ve been left behind,” said Gardner. “Congress has not passed major tax reform in over 30 years and I’m excited for the opportunity to finally bring tax relief to hardworking Coloradans. This is just the beginning of the Senate’s process and I look forward to working with my colleagues to improve this legislation in the days ahead and make sure it benefits Coloradans. Lower taxes will mean bigger paychecks and result in Coloradans keeping more of their hard earned dollars. It’s time for Washington to get out of the way and let Americans spend their money how they want, not how Washington dictates.” The Senate proposal will not only simplify the tax code, but also create a fairer system for all Americans by eliminating special interest carve outs and loopholes. Gardner continued: “Washington insiders and those who know how to game the system have had an unfair advantage over hardworking Americans when it comes to our complex, out-of-date tax code. Those with enough money find ways to game the system and use loopholes to their advantage. It’s time for this to end. It’s time to level the playing field and provide tax relief to all Americans. A simpler, fairer tax code will allow individuals and Main Street businesses to save time and money on preparing their taxes. Coloradans should make decisions based on what is good for them, their families, their employees, and their business, not because of the tax code.” The Senate plan also calls for lowering the corporate tax rate to 20%. For years both sides of the aisle have recognized that our corporate tax code is uncompetitive and causing companies to leave the country in search of lower taxes. Even President Obama in his 2011 State of the Union Address advocated for lowering the corporate tax rate, saying, “For example, over the years, a parade of lobbyists has rigged the tax code to benefit particular companies and industries. Those with accountants or lawyers to work the system can end up paying no taxes at all. But all the rest are hit with one of the highest corporate tax rates in the world. It makes no sense, and it has to change." Gardner continued: “Lowering the corporate tax rate will jumpstart the economy and will allow businesses to hire more workers and reinvest their earnings into their business operations. Without tax relief, I worry about the future of Main Street America. We know American workers bear much of the burden of a high corporate tax rate in the form of lower wages, but now we have the opportunity to fix this. We can lower the corporate tax rate that could result in an additional $4,000 in the pockets of the average American household. This will be good for small businesses and American workers.” Gardner’s number one priority is to make sure the interests of Coloradans are front and center throughout this debate. His office has launched a new web page and is encouraging Coloradans to go to Gardner.Senate.Gov/Taxes to provide input on how we can fix our tax code. Gardner added, “I have already heard from Coloradans around the state and am eager to get more feedback as this process continues. We have a real opportunity to grow our economy and bring relief to hardworking Coloradans and I’m excited to work on tax relief on behalf of all Coloradans.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
11.08.2017	11.08.17 Heritage Foundation Address by Senator Cory Gardner --- Bruce, thank you for the kind introduction. It is always a privilege to be back at Heritage. I also want to thank the Korea Institute for Defense Analyses for co-hosting this event. This opportunity to speak before you today is most timely, as President Trump concludes his historic visit to Asia – the longest visit by an American President to the region in more than 25 years, and an unmistakable sign of the power, prestige, and prominence of the region. And the U.S.-Republic of Korea alliance is the bedrock of our nation’s alliances in this region. As President Trump stated yesterday after his meeting with President Moon Jae-in: “The partnership between our two nations and our two people is deep and enduring. We have been proud to stand by your side for many decades as an unwavering friend and a loyal ally. And you have never had a time where this ally has been more loyal or stood by your side more than right now. Here in South Korea, the people built a free, sovereign, and democratic republic. Through their resilience and sacrifice and determination, they became the chief architects of the future. Today, the course of this great nation is charted solely by the free people of South Korea.” I believe this a most accurate portrayal of a proud people and nation. *** You have asked me today to not only assess the state of the U.S.-Republic of Korea alliance, but to also more broadly address the Trump Administration’s policies toward the Indo-Pacific region. Both sets of policies are necessarily driven today by a troubling reality -- unless drastic diplomatic and economic measures are taken now by the international community, we may be heading for a nuclear showdown that could cost millions of lives on the Korean Peninsula and possibly beyond. Peace, prosperity, and the rule of law – the values that bind our two great nations and have set an example for the rest of the region for generations – are currently at risk because of a rogue regime only 40 miles north of Seoul that is determined to re-write history. Let me be clear: Kim Jong Un wants nuclear and ballistic weapons because in his mind, it is the only way to ensure the survival of his regime, and he has watched as the Obama Administration rewarded bad actions – if you act bad enough, long enough, you get what you want. Kim Jong Un wants these weapons to threaten the free world and to forcefully re-unify the Korean Peninsula on North Korea’s terms. Last week, I led a discussion at the Senate Foreign Relations Committee with Thae Yong-ho, the high-level North Korean defector who served as Deputy Ambassador to the United Kingdom until 2016. Mr. Thae confirmed to me directly that Kim Jong Un looked at the outcomes of the Vietnam War, and it’s eventual communist unification, as the model for remedying what Pyongyang viewed as “unfinished business” of the Korean War. The first step in such a scenario would be to break the U.S.-ROK alliance. As Mr. Thae testified in his prepared remarks to the House Foreign Relations Committee: “While Kim Jong Un has already long had the tools to destroy South Korea effectively, he also believes it is necessary to drive American forces out of the peninsula. And this can be done, he believes, by being able to credibly threaten the continental United States with nuclear weapons. On top of the thousands of artillery pieces and short-range missile capabilities long held on the North Korean side, the potential deployment of battle-ready nuclear ICBMs means the threat is not only towards South Korea, but also towards America.” Kim wants the costs so high, we cut and run on our ally. These candid remarks from a former regime insider demonstrate yet again that a nuclear North Korea remains a completely unacceptable outcome to the United States and our allies. *** This is the reality inherited by the Trump Administration on January 20, 2016. To their credit, the Administration recognized the threat early and has worked with Congress more effectively to develop new policy tools to deter Pyongyang. Instead of the failed “strategic patience” policy of the Obama Administration, there is now a new policy of “maximum pressure and engagement” – a significantly more robust approach that combines diplomatic, economic, and military reassurance tools. Secretary Mattis has called North Korea “the most urgent and dangerous threat to peace and security” and made sure that his first visit as Secretary of Defense was to East Asia. During his most recent visit to South Korea two weeks ago, Secretary Mattis stated while standing at the Demilitarized Zone: “[O]ur goal is not war, but rather the complete, verifiable and irreversible denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula.” Vice-President Pence likewise visited to South Korea in April and stated: “Since 1992, the United States and our allies have stood together for a denuclearized Korean Peninsula. We hope to achieve this objective through peaceable means. But all options are on the table.” U.S. policy toward North Korea has become more straightforward and transparent under this Administration: in concert with our close allies, we are finally deploying robust economic, diplomatic, and military deterrence tools at our disposal to deter Pyongyang. Kim Jong Un now knows that any serious military provocation will be met with a full range of U.S. military capabilities. We have more frequently conducted the robust show of force exercises against North Korea with both our ROK as well Japanese allies, including utilizing some of our most advanced and capable air and naval platforms. We have provided ironclad assurance of extended U.S. nuclear deterrence to our allies. We have emphasized building the trilateral relationship between the U.S., the ROK, and Japan to include more robust defense and intelligence sharing capabilities. We have begun to ramp up economic pressure against both Pyongyang and its enablers, although much more needs to be done. The Administration is also slowly coming to terms with the fact that the road to peacefully stopping Pyongyang undoubtedly lies through Beijing. China is the only country that holds the diplomatic and economic leverage necessary to put the real squeeze on the North Korean regime. China accounts for 90 percent of North Korea's trade, including virtually all of North Korea's exports. Despite Beijing’s support for measures at the United Nations to sanctions North Korea, the fact remains that from 2000-2015, trade volume between these two nations has climbed more than tenfold, rising from $488 million in 2000 to $5.4 billion in 2015. It is clear that Beijing is the reason the regime acts so bold and with relatively few consequences. China must now move beyond mere articulation of concern and lay out a transparent path of focused pressure to denuclearize North Korea. A global power that desires global responsibility and that borders this regime cannot simply throw up its hands and absolve themselves of responsibility. The Administration has a robust toolbox already available to ramp up the sanctions track -- a track that has historically been hardly been utilized to its fullest extent. Last Congress, I led the North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act in the Senate, which passed by a vote of 96-0. This legislation was the first standalone legislation in Congress regarding North Korea to impose mandatory sanctions on the regime’s proliferation activities, human rights violations, and malicious cyber behavior. According to recent analysis from the Foundation for the Defense of Democracies: “North Korea sanctions have more than doubled since the Act came into effect on February 18, 2016. Prior to that date, North Korea ranked eighth, behind Russia, Iran, Iraq, the Balkans, Syria, Sudan, and Zimbabwe.” Even with the 148% sanctions increase after the Act, North Korea is today still only the fourth most-sanctioned country by the United States. The Trump Administration has the opportunity to use these authorities to exert maximum pressure not only with Pyongyang, but also with Beijing. I am encouraged by the actions the Administration took this July to finally designate a Chinese financial institution, the Bank of Dandong. But this should just be the beginning. The Administration, with Congressional support, should now make clear to any entity doing business with North Korea, no matter where they are based, that they will not be able to do business with the United States or have access to the U.S. financial system. Exclusion from the center of the world’s financial system is a penalty that most businesses can ill-afford to bear. A report released this June by an independent organization, C4ADS, identified over 5,000 Chinese companies that are doing business with North Korea. These Chinese companies are responsible for $7 billion in trade with North Korea. Moreover, the C4ADS report found that only 10 of these companies control 30% of Chinese exports to North Korea in 2016. One of these companies alone controlled nearly 10% of total imports from North Korea. Some of these companies were found to have satellite offices in the United States. According to recent disclosures, from 2009 to 2017, North Korea used Chinese banks to process at least $2.2 billion in transactions through the U.S. financial system. This should all stop now. The Administration should not be afraid of a diplomatic confrontation with Beijing for simply enforcing existing U.S. law. In fact, it should be more afraid of Congress if it does not. As for any prospect of engagement with North Korea, we should continue to let Beijing know in no uncertain terms that the United States will not negotiate with Pyongyang at the expense of our national security and that of our allies. Instead of working with the United States and the international community to disarm the madman in Pyongyang, Beijing has called on the United States and South Korea to halt our military exercises and engaged in an unprecedented economic pressure campaign against Seoul for the deployment of the Terminal High Altitude Area Defense, or THAAD, a purely defensive system. By some estimates, the Chinese campaign against the South Korean economy cost Seoul anywhere from 5 billion to 15 billion U.S. dollars. If only Beijing exerted this kind of concerted unilateral sanctions pressure against the North Korean regime, it would bankrupt Pyongyang’s coffers twice over. The Administration should also continue to reject any ill-conceived Chinese “freeze for freeze” negotiations proposals. We should never horse-trade the illegal activities that North Korea is conducting – and which have been condemned by multiple UN Security Council Resolutions – for completely legal activities under the U.S.-ROK alliance. Moreover, before any talks in any format with North Korea, the United States and our partners must demand that Pyongyang first adhere to the denuclearization commitments it had already agreed to in the past – and subsequently chose to brazenly violate. The purpose of any negotiations with North Korea must be complete, verifiable, and irreversible denuclearization – full stop. President Trump should continue to impress with President Xi that a denuclearized Korean Peninsula is in both nations’ fundamental long-term interests and that the United States does not seek regime change in North Korea. As Admiral Harry Harris rightly noted recently: “We want to bring Kim Jong Un to his senses, not to his knees.” But to achieve this goal, Beijing must be made to choose whether it wants to work with the United States as a responsible global leader to stop Pyongyang – or bear consequences of keeping him in power. *** Recently, I introduced bipartisan legislation called the Leverage to Enhance Effective Diplomacy, or the LEED, Act. This legislation takes the first steps toward imposing an economic embargo on North Korea, including a ban any entity that does business with North Korea or its enablers from using the United States financial system and imposing U.S. sanctions on all those participating in North Korean human rights or labor trafficking abuses. On September 21, 2017, the Administration took the right step forward and issued an executive order that incorporates many of the elements of this legislation. My legislation also specifically singles out 10 largest Chinese companies conducting trade with North Korea to send a clear message: you can either do business with this outlaw regime or the world’s largest economy. Public pressure works. Some of these businesses have already reached out to our office and said they have stopped business with North Korea because of my legislation. Another important component of this legislation is the diplomatic isolation of North Korea. The LEED Act calls for the Secretary of State to initiate a global pressure campaign against North Korea and to also authorizes the Secretary to cut off U.S. assistance to any nation that is not cooperating with the United States to isolate the North Korean regime The Administration has initiated such a pressure campaign against North Korea. To date, over 20 nations have downgraded diplomatic relations or cut-off business ties with Pyongyang. This is a major success for which the Administration deserves to be commended. Quiet pressure also works. In late May, I had the opportunity to visit the Philippines and to meet with President Rodrigo Duterte. One major topic of discussion was North Korea and the threat it presents to global peace and stability. President Duterte pledged to me that the Philippines would wind down all business ties with North Korea. On September 8, 2017, the Philippines announced it had done just that. According to the World Trade Organization, the Philippines’ was North Korea’s third largest trade partner in 2016, with bilateral trade volume of $87 million. That is now $87 million less that Kim Jong Un can use to build its weapons of mass destruction and abuse the rights of his people. I have also sent letters to the 21 nations, including some of the strongest U.S. allies like Germany and the United Kingdom, to shut down their diplomatic facilities inside of North Korea. Maintaining official diplomatic relations with a regime that continues to defy international law and threaten nations across the globe only serves to reward nefarious behavior. I have also called on the United Nations to expel North Korea as a member state. Article 6 of the United Nations Charter clearly states: “A Member of the United Nations which has persistently violated the Principles contained in the present Charter may be expelled from the Organization by the General Assembly upon the recommendation of the Security Council.” There is no nation on Earth that deserves this dishonor more than North Korea. It is my hope that during this historic visit, President Trump and President Moon can agree to not only strengthen the U.S.-ROK alliance, but also lay out a concerted path of pressure to achieve the peaceful denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula – a mission in which we cannot fail. *** As President Trump approaches his first year in office, we are seeing the emergence of this Administration’s vision on Asia. The first important element of that vision is regularly showing up at high levels -- critical to a region where face matters. Vice-President Pence has completed a successful “Asia Reassurance Tour” to Japan, South Korea, Australia, and Indonesia. President Trump is attending both the U.S.-ASEAN summit and the East Asia summit in the Philippines and APEC summit in Vietnam. Throughout my travels to the region in the last 3 years, I heard a tremendous amount of concern from top leaders that U.S. leadership in this critical part of the world is waning. When U.S. leadership wanes, or even the perception of U.S. leadership wanes, it undoubtedly empowers bad actors and constrains the political space for many nations to make choices that comport with U.S. values and interests. As nations look for a balance to China, an absent U.S. means no lifeline for a rules-based alternative. The Trump Administration is inheriting a flawed “Asia rebalance” policy from the previous administration, which was right in rhetoric, but ultimately came up short on meaningful actions. U.S. power in the Indo-Pacific over the last century empowered nations in this region to peacefully prosper, secured by the U.S-led liberal world order. That is now changing. As is evident from its actions with regard to North Korea and armed coercion in the South China Sea, China has little intention to follow established international norms when they conflict with Beijing’s perceived self-interest. This stark fact has led many nations in the region to reconsider the meaning of what the Greek philosopher observed long ago: “The strong do what they can, while the weak suffer what they must.” The Trump Administration, working with Congress, now has an opportunity to shape a new U.S. policy toward the Indo-Pacific that changes this dangerous dynamic. This is why I am pursuing legislation called the Asia Reassurance Initiative Act (ARIA), a new generational approach that will put American interests first by reassuring our allies, deterring our adversaries, and securing U.S. leadership in the region for future generations. To inform this legislation, I have put together a series of hearings in my Senate Foreign Relations subcommittee to shine a bright light on the importance of this region to U.S. economic and national security interests. ARIA will pursue three broad goals to strengthen U.S. policy toward the Asia-Pacific. First, it will strengthen U.S. security commitments to our allies and build partner capacity in the Asia-Pacific to deter aggression, project power, and combat terrorism. To do so, the ARIA will authorize funds to bolster U.S. military presence in the region, grow partner nation maritime capabilities to deter aggression in their territorial waters, and build new counterterrorism partnership programs in Southeast Asia to combat the growing presence of ISIS and other terrorist organizations. ARIA will also enshrine a policy of regularly enforcing U.S. freedom of navigation and overflight rights in the East and South China Seas. We will reaffirm our commitment to longstanding treaty alliances in region and call for building new regional security partnerships. We will unequivocally back our ally Taiwan, including authorizing new arms sales, regularizing the arms sales process, and providing for enhanced diplomatic and defense contacts with Taipei. Second, ARIA will promote sustained economic engagement and securing U.S. market access in the Indo-Pacific region as essential elements for the future growth of the U.S. economy and success of American businesses. To do so, ARIA will require that the Trump Administration find new and innovative ways to economically engage the region. We will mandate that United States government engage in bilateral or multilateral trade negotiations and also enhance our trade facilitation efforts, in order to increase opportunities for American businesses to find new export markets in the region. U.S.-made exports to Asia will mean more good-paying American jobs at home – a winning proposition. ARIA will authorize U.S. energy exports to the region and establish policies to promote sustainable power generation throughout the region. We will also ensure that there is a level playing field for U.S. companies, including cracking down on state-sponsored and state-endorsed theft of U.S. intellectual property from American businesses. Third, ARIA will enshrine promotion of democracy, human rights, and the rule of law as key U.S. policy objectives in the Indo-Pacific region, particularly in Southeast Asia. I continue to engage my colleagues in Congress and senior officials in the Administration to advance this initiative and I welcome your input as we move forward. *** The stakes for the Trump Administration could not be any higher in the Indo-Pacific region. The fundamental question is whether it will be the United States or China that will set the rules for the next generation. Putting Asia at front and center for U.S. foreign policy is putting America first – because our future national and economic security depends on it. Thank you for hosting me here today, and I will now be glad to answer your questions.
11.02.2017	11.02.17 Gardner Votes to Confirm Colorado Supreme Court Justice Allison Eid to the United States Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit Washington, D.C. –Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the below statement following the confirmation of Colorado native Allison Eid to serve on the Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals: “Allison Eid will make Colorado proud as she assumes her new position on the Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals. Allison’s experience as Colorado’s Solicitor General, serving on Colorado’s Supreme Court, and teaching at CU Law will all contribute to her success on the Tenth Circuit. Her devotion to the Constitution and the rule of law make her a tremendous choice and I’m looking forward to her service to our country.” Yesterday, Gardner spoke on the Senate floor about Eid and affirmed his support of her nomination. In September, Gardner (R-CO) introduced Eid to the Judiciary Committee at her confirmation hearing. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
11.01.2017	11.01.17 Gardner Meets with High Profile North Korean Defector Washington, D.C.– Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Chairman of the Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity, today led a Senate Foreign Relations Committee meeting with Thae Yong-Ho, a high-level North Korean defector who served as North Korea’s Deputy Ambassador to the United Kingdom until he defected to South Korea last year. “I was glad to meet Thae Yong-Ho today and welcome him to the United States Capitol,” said Gardner. “He provided valuable insight to the committee and we agreed that more economic and diplomatic pressure is necessary against Kim Jong Un to bring about peaceful denuclearization of North Korea. I look forward to working with my colleagues and the Administration in order to achieve this goal.” Gardner authored the North Korea Sanctions Policy and Enhancement Act, which was signed into law by President Obama in February of 2016 and marked the first time Congress imposed stand-alone mandatory sanctions on North Korea. Gardner recently introduced comprehensive bipartisan legislation to impose an economic and diplomatic embargo against North Korea and its enablers, and to authorize efforts to combat Pyongyang’s widespread human rights and labor trafficking abuses. He has also sent a letter to Ambassadors of nations maintaining diplomatic ties with North Korea, calling on these nations to cease all official diplomatic and economic relations with North Korea. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
10.31.2017	10.31.17 Gardner Pushes for Transparency and Accountability in EAGLE-Net Alliance Assets Transfer Washington, D.C.– Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today sent a letter to Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross requesting that any transfer of EAGLE-Net Alliance’s former assets be delayed until a National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA) Administrator is confirmed. Gardner is taking action to make sure a transparent and open process takes place. From his time in the House of Representatives, Gardner has led the charge to ensure accountability of taxpayer resources when it comes to EAGLE-Net. In 2013, Gardner sent a letter to NTIA “imploring the agency to promptly investigate the company and the partnership details.” The investigation Gardner requested “found that Eagle-Net fell far short of its goals and had weak financial controls.” The letter reads in full: Dear Secretary Ross: I am writing to request that the National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA) conduct an open, transparent, and public process for the disposition of any assets from the recently defunct EAGLE-Net Alliance (EAGLE-Net). Additionally, I request that NTIA delay any efforts to transfer those assets until a new NTIA Administrator is confirmed, sworn into office, and able to oversee such a process. EAGLE-Net operated with a federal grant of more than $100 million intended to provide high-speed broadband connections to schools throughout rural Colorado. Unfortunately, millions of dollars in taxpayer money was spent overbuilding existing private networks on the Eastern Plains of Colorado and elsewhere in the state. After significant public scrutiny, including Congressional oversight efforts I helped spearhead, EAGLE-Net handed over operation of their broadband network to a private company in 2015. Finally, in June 2017, EAGLE-Net dissolved its charter, leaving NTIA to control its remaining assets. As NTIA considers how it will proceed with reallocating EAGLE-Net’s assets, the process should remain public and transparent. Since receiving its award of more than $100 million of taxpayer money in 2010, EAGLE-Net was plagued with issues surrounding transparency and appropriate use of those funds. NTIA has an opportunity to end that concerning history and to ensure the public has a full accounting of next steps for those taxpayer-funded assets. I look forward to such an open process once a new NTIA Administrator has taken office. If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact my office at (202) 224-5941. Sincerely, ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
10.26.2017	10.26.17 Gardner Speaks on Senate Floor About Need to Delay Health Insurance Tax Washington, D.C.– Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) spoke yesterday on the Senate floor about legislation he introduced, the Healthcare Tax Relief Act, that would delay the Health Insurance Tax created by the Affordable Care Act. Click here to view the full remarks. Remarks as Prepared for Delivery: Mr. President, I rise today to discuss the Healthcare Tax Relief Act, legislation I have introduced to delay the Health Insurance Tax created by the Affordable Care Act. This tax, often referred to as the HIT, imposes fees on health insurance coverage to consumers. Pretty simple—business gets fee, fee gets passed on! As is the case with most excise taxes, if this tax takes effect, costs will be passed to consumers in the form of higher premiums as confirmed by the Congressional Budget Office. One of the cost drivers built into the ACA, this tax was set to begin in 2014 starting at $8 billion and reach $14.3 billion by 2018; however, Congress suspended the tax from taking effect in 2017. Without congressional action, this tax will take effect in 2018. According to non-partisan actuarial analysis conducted by Oliver Wyman, an estimated 157 million Americans stand to be effected by this tax. Even more, middle-income earners and working American’s are expected to shoulder the weight of this tax as well. Oliver Wyman, estimated that premiums will rise by 3 percent in each 2018, 2019 and 2020. That’s nine percent over three years. To put this in perspective, in Colorado alone, premiums in the individual market rose by 34.3 percent from plan year 2017 to 2018. Adding 3 percent every year for three years to this equation would leave those on the individual market paying nearly a 43.3 percent increase if combined with 2018 increases. What’s more, according to the Department of Health and Human Services, average individual market premiums have increased by 105 percent from 2013 to 2017. Without congressional action, estimates show costs will rise between $200 and $300 dollars annually for individuals and $500 dollars annually for families. For those living pay-check-to-paycheck, these costs could push them into financial crisis. Recent data from the Federal Reserve found that 46 percent of Americans did not have enough money to cover a $400 dollar emergency expense. This tax has the potential to push over half of Americans into financial ruin and it would be negligent for Congress to allow this tax to take effect. The financial threat this tax imposes on hard working families is a far cry from President Obama’s promise that health care premiums would fall by $2,500 per family. At a time when we know that almost half of Americans could not shoulder a $400 dollar emergency expense, it would be irresponsible to allow this tax to take effect. Furthermore, the impacts of this tax touch our seniors who have earned their benefits as well. For seniors enrolled in Medicare Advantage plans, premiums are expected to rise by roughly $370 a year per enrollee if congress does not find a resolution. In addition, seniors enrolled in Medicare Part D prescription drug plans can expect their premiums to rise as well. Even more, the impacts of the Health Insurance Tax have large-scale consequences in the workplace as well. A study by the National Federation of Independent Businesses found that allowing the HIT to take effect could result in a reduction of as many as 286,000 jobs by 2023. Research and analysis from our most respected actuaries continues to validate the negative consequences of the Health Insurance Tax. On behalf of all hard working Americans, I call upon my colleagues to join me in cosponsoring this common sense piece of legislation, the Healthcare Tax Relief Act. Health plans are finalizing their rates for plan year 2018 and it is urgent for congress to take action so that consumers are not saddled with the burden of this onerous tax. Mr. President, I yield the floor. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
10.19.2017	10.19.17 Gardner Supports Bill that Paves Way for Tax Relief Washington, D.C.– Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statement following the Senate’s passage of the FY18 budget resolution. The budget resolution is the first step in bringing tax relief to the American people. By voting for the budget, Gardner is making it clear it is time to achieve real results for the American people and bring much-needed tax relief to Coloradans. “This budget puts us on a path toward fiscal responsibility and paves the way forward to bring tax relief to hardworking Coloradans,” said Gardner. “It’s been over 30 years since Congress has passed major tax reform. Over that time, the tax code has become bloated and full of carve outs for special interests. Colorado families know they’re left with the bill and that they spend too much time working through a tangled mess of rules just to file their taxes.” As the debate continues on how to bring tax relief to the American people, and bipartisan hearings take place over the next several weeks, Gardner is focused on making sure the final product works for Coloradans. Gardner continued: “For individuals, relief would mean we can cut into the 6 billion hours and $263 billion Americans spend every year to just file their taxes. For farmers and ranchers, relief would mean ending the unfair death tax. And for workers up and down the income distribution, relief could mean $4,000 to $9,000 more in average household income. “People across Colorado and the United States feel like they have been left behind over the last several years. Too many Coloradans haven’t seen a meaningful pay increase in a long time. Boosting wages and allowing Coloradans to keep more of their money in their own pockets is exactly what we need. While there are a variety of ways to bring Coloradans tax relief, our goal must be a system where Americans end up with an overall lower tax bill than the status quo provides. We have a real opportunity to provide a simpler code, less hassle, and more businesses hiring more workers and paying higher wages.” Gardner’s number one priority is to make sure the interests of Coloradans are front and center throughout this debate. His office has launched a new web page and is encouraging Coloradans to go toGardner.Senate.Gov/Taxes to provide input on how we can fix our tax code. “I’m looking forward to working with my colleagues on a tax relief package that keeps more money in Coloradans’ pockets, grows wages, and creates more jobs and opportunities for all Americans,” Gardner concluded. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
10.17.2017	10.17.17 Gardner Seeks Input from Coloradans on Fixing our Tax Code and Growing Wages Washington, DC – As Congress turns its attention to providing tax relief from an oversized and confusing tax code, Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today announced his office has launched a new web page to gather input from Coloradans on how to fix our tax code and grow wages. It’s been over 30 years since Congress has passed major tax reform and Gardner is asking Coloradans how lower taxes and a simplified tax code will help them. To share a personal story with Senator Gardner or provide input on how we can fix our tax code, Coloradans can fill out the form atGardner.Senate.Gov/Taxes. Click here to be directed to the new webpage. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
10.10.2017	10.10.17 Gardner Spends Day in Logan, Morgan, and Yuma Counties Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) spent Monday meeting with constituents on the Eastern Plains. “Meeting constituents and local leaders to discuss how I can help them make sure their local communities and businesses succeed is one of the most important parts of my job,” said Gardner. “Whether it’s finding a way forward on an issue like Bonny Reservoir or seeing how Colorado’s agriculture processing plants contribute to the local economy, it’s important to travel the state and speak to Coloradans face-to-face.” Gardner started the day in Wray in Yuma County for a meeting with the South Fork River Restoration Coalition to discuss a variety of local issues including the Bonny Reservoir and the South Fork Republican River. The group discussed ways Gardner can help bridge the divide between local stakeholders and the federal agencies involved in the issue. Gardner continued: “Growing up in Yuma, I went to Bonny Reservoir as a kid and know all of the benefits it provided for the people of Northeastern Colorado. I will continue to work with the local stakeholders and advocate on their behalf when it comes to their dealings with the federal government agencies. Colorado knows best when it comes to managing Colorado water, and we can not let Washington bureaucrats supersede decisions made on the local level.” Gardner’s next stop was in Fort Morgan for a meeting with representatives of Western Sugar, local elected officials, and members of the Colorado Grower’s association to discuss how important the Western Sugar Cooperative is to the local economy. Gardner’s last stop of the day was in Sterling for a tour of the Trinidad Benham Corporations bean processing and packaging plant. The Trinidad Benham Corporation is a Colorado-based company that employs well over one hundred Coloradans. Both the Western Sugar Cooperative plant and Trinidad Benham Corporation’s facility package and export Colorado agriculture products. “Colorado’s agriculture industry, including processing and packaging plants like Western Sugar Cooperative and the Trinidad Benham Corporation’s plant in Sterling, are major economic drivers for Eastern Colorado,” Gardner added. “We must continue to support our agriculture industry and make sure the next generation of Coloradans living on the Eastern Plains have a vibrant economy and a local community they are proud to be a part of.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
10.08.2017	10.08.17 Gardner Returns From Puerto Rico Visit Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) returned from a bicameral Congressional Delegation trip to Puerto Rico to assess the hurricane-ravaged territory. Gardner was asked by the White House to attend in his role as Chairman of the Energy Subcommittee. Also joining the tour were four of his senate colleagues, senior officials from the White House, the Department of Homeland Security, and the Department of Defense. “It was important to see the hurricane damage first-hand and meet with Governor Ricardo Rossello and our first responders who have been working so hard to help the people of Puerto Rico,” said Gardner. “Our first priority must be restoring power to 100 percent of the island and I will continue working with the Administration to achieve this goal as quickly as possible. I am committed to finding both short-term and long-term solutions to help our fellow Americans.” During his time on the American island, Senator Gardner completed an aerial tour of the most damaged parts of the island and received briefings from the Coast Guard, Homeland Security, and FEMA about the next steps that are needed for cleanup efforts and power restoration. Currently, more than 90 percent of the island is still without power. Senator Gardner also met with Puerto Rico Governor Ricardo Rossello and other local officials and leaders in the community. Additionally, he completed a tour of the Port of San Juan led by the San Juan Port Authority and Coast Guard leadership. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
10.05.2017	10.05.17 Pueblo Town Hall Postponed Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner announced today that he will be rescheduling his town hall in Pueblo, CO originally scheduled to take place on Friday, October 6th. Gardner has been asked by the White House to attend a bipartisan, bicameral Congressional Delegation to the hurricane-ravaged territory of Puerto Rico leaving in the early morning hours on Saturday, October 7th. The Congressional Delegation will be traveling with senior officials from the White House, the Department of Homeland Security and the Department of Defense. While on the American island, Gardner and his colleagues will be surveying damaged areas, and meeting with Puerto Rican Governor Rico Rossello, US Coast Guard and local officials. As Chairman of the Subcommittee on Energy, Gardner has been a bipartisan leader in the Senate in calling for the Department of Energy to help restore power to the island. More than 90% of the island is still without power. Senator Gardner will be staying in Washington in advance of the Congressional Delegation trip for the Senate Budget Committee’s consideration of the FY2018 budget resolution and to participate in briefings on Friday to discuss the situation in Puerto Rico and the US Virgin Islands in advance of the bipartisan Congressional Delegation on Saturday. Gardner’s office will be rescheduling the Pueblo town hall in the near future. In addition to a public announcement by Gardner’s Senate office for the rescheduled town hall date, constituents are encouraged to follow Senator Gardner on social media, or sign-up for his e-newsletter, for more information. ###
10.04.2017	10.04.17 Gardner Urges Congressional Leaders to Support Wildfire Funding Washington, D.C.– Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) joined Senate Western Caucus colleagues in sending a letter on Wednesday to Congressional leadership urging their support for wildfire reforms that will assist Colorado and other Western states that have experienced severe damage from several years of destructive wildfire seasons. This letter follows Gardner’s action on wildfire funding two weeks ago when he introduced the Wildfire Disaster Funding Act of 2017, legislation that would end the destructive cycle of fire borrowing and stop the erosion of the Forest Service’s budget by reforming the way the federal government funds wildfires. The letter reads in full: Dear Speaker Ryan and Leaders McConnell, Schumer and Pelosi: As members of the Senate Western Caucus, we write to bring attention to this year’s terrible wildfire season and ask for your support in prioritizing and passing critically-needed forest management and wildfire funding reforms in legislation that becomes law this year. Wildfires across much of the West this year have been severe. Over 8.5 million acres—larger than the state of Maryland—have burned to date, hundreds of homes and other structures have been lost, emissions and dangerous particulates from the fires have threatened public health in many communities, and, worst of all, two wildland firefighters have died. In addition, the Forest Service has already spent well over $2 billion to suppress the fires. The terrible fire season and its widespread consequences is not an anomaly, unfortunately. In fact, this is the fifth time in ten years that more than seven million acres have burned. Congress must act now to solve both the budget and management problems associated with wildfires. We will never be able to prevent all wildfires or address all of the factors that contribute to fire. Congress can, however, take meaningful steps to increase the capacity of the Forest Service and other federal land management agencies to improve forest management and reduce wildfire risk. We therefore urge passage of comprehensive reforms that together would substantially increase the pace and scale of forest management, reducing the size and severity of catastrophic wildfire. We ask for reforms that: Cut unnecessary red tape that needlessly slows down projects that would improve forest health. We support additional streamlining of project planning, such as analysis under the National Environmental Policy Act, that builds on the 2014 Farm Bill provisions and other authorities and ensures a larger scope of projects developed through a collaborative process can be implemented swiftly. Combat litigation from fringe groups that continues to delay or outright stop much-needed projects. Many of these lawsuits are against projects that were locally developed by diverse stakeholders, including mainstream conservationists, and thereby are undermining the very kind of collaborative management that both Congress and the Forest Service have expressly encouraged. End fire borrowing and address the growing costs of wildfire suppression in a fiscally responsible manner. In addition to improving forest health and reducing wildfire risk, it is important to note that these reforms would also create wood products jobs, provide revenues to forested counties, improve fish and wildlife habitat, protect at-risk watersheds and improve water quality, enhance carbon sequestration within our National Forests, and increase recreational opportunities on public lands. The benefits of increasing active forest management are therefore both extensive and integrated, and they are critical to the livelihoods and quality of life of the residents of our Western states and the experience of millions of tourists. Thank you for your prompt attention to this critical matter. We are eager to work with you on developing specific management and funding provisions and enacting them before the year ends. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
10.04.2017	10.04.17 Gardner Announces New Staff Additions Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today announced two additions to his staff. Dustin Sherer will serve as Gardner’s Legislative Assistant and will work on energy, environment, lands, forestry, agricultural, and water policies. Brian Wanamaker will serve as Counsel to Senator Gardner and will handle budget, banking, taxes, appropriations, labor and judiciary policies. Dustin Sherer comes to Gardner’s office from Congressman Scott Tipton’s (CO-3), where he served the Congressman for 7 years and spent the last 2 years as Legislative Director. Previously, he worked as a Field Representative for Senator Wayne Allard (R-CO). Sherer is from Pueblo, Colorado and graduated from the University of Rochester in 2004, where he completed Naval Reserve Officer Training Corps. Sherer has expertise in all issues pertaining to Colorado’s Western Slope, including public lands, energy and environment. “I’m excited to have Dustin on-board to help advocate for Colorado when it comes to public lands, and energy and environment related issues,” said Gardner. “Dustin’s wealth of knowledge when it comes to the Western Slope will be extremely valuable as I continue to advocate for an all-of-the-above energy platform, protecting Colorado’s water rights, and making sure future generations of Coloradans can enjoy the state’s public lands.” Brian Wanamaker comes to Gardner’s office after spending several years in the private sector practicing corporate law and litigation. He graduated from the University of Kansas in 2000 and Washington University in St. Louis Law School in 2003. “Brian’s 14 years practicing law will be an asset as I work to advance policies that benefit all Coloradans,” said Gardner. “Brian will also help in my effort to revitalize rural Colorado and bring economic development, tax relief, and jobs to all four corners of the state.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
10.04.2017	10.04.17 Gardner to Hold Pueblo Town Hall 6th Town Hall Since August Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) will hold a town hall meeting on Friday, October 6th in Pueblo. It will be Senator Gardner’s 6th town hall since August. Constituents are encouraged to arrive early, as space is limited. The event is open to the public and the media. If you are a member of the media interested in attending the event, please RSVP by sending an email to Senator Gardner’s Press Secretary, Casey Contres, at casey_contres@gardner.senate.gov. PUEBLO TOWN HALL Who: U.S. Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) What: Pueblo Town Hall When: Friday, October 6, 9:30 a.m. – 11:00 a.m. MT Doors open at 8:30 a.m. MT Where: Pueblo Convention Center 320 Central Main St, Pueblo, CO 81003 NOTE: Date and time are subject to change per Senate vote schedule. Gardner’s office will make an additional announcement if the schedule changes. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
10.03.2017	10.03.17 Gardner, Bennet Cosponsor Bill to Extend and Improve CHIP Washington, D.C. – Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Michael Bennet (D-CO), a member of the Senate Finance Committee, cosponsored the Keeping Kids’ Insurance Dependable and Secure (KIDS) Act, bipartisan legislation to ensure stability for vulnerable children by extending funding for the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) for five years. The bill would also, over time, transition CHIP to a traditional federal-state partnership and provide additional protections for low-income children and flexibility for states. Funding for CHIP expired on September 30, 2017. Without its reauthorization, 90,000 children and 600 pregnant women risk losing coverage in Colorado. According to the Medicaid and CHIP Payment and Access Commission (MACPAC), Colorado has sufficient funds for the program through the end of January, 2018. “I’ve cosponsored legislation to reauthorize CHIP funding through 2022, and I’m urging my Senate colleagues to move quickly on this bipartisan issue,” Gardner said. “Senator Bennet and I have been very vocal about the need to address this, and it appears there’s a path forward to creating long-term certainty for a program that roughly 90,000 Colorado children and pregnant mothers utilize.” “CHIP is too essential to too many families for us to delay any further,” Bennet said. “This bill would extend CHIP funding for the next five years, ensuring Colorado’s children and expecting mothers who depend on the program retain access to care. We urge our colleagues to support this legislation and see that it passes for the sake of families across the country.” The Keeping Kids’ Insurance Dependable and Secure (KIDS) Act would: Extend CHIP funding through Fiscal Year (FY) 2022; Maintain federal matching rate at current statutory levels through FY 2019, change to 11.5 percent for FY 2020, and return to a traditional CHIP matching rate for fiscal years 2021 and 2022; and Create protections and flexibility under the maintenance-of-effort provision. Click HERE for a copy of the bill. ###
10.03.2017	10.03.17 Gardner, Markey Introduce Expanded North Korea Policy and Sanctions Legislation Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Edward J. Markey (D-Mass.), Chairman and Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity, introduced comprehensive bipartisan legislation to economically and diplomatically pressure North Korea and its enablers, and authorize efforts to combat Pyongyang’s widespread human rights and labor trafficking abuses, to support and enhance efforts to find a diplomatic solution to the threat of North Korea’s accelerating development of nuclear weapons and the missiles that deliver them. The legislation titled, the Leverage to Enhance Effective Diplomacy Act of 2017, expands on sanctions legislation introduced earlier this year by Gardner and Markey. “The Administration has taken positive steps in recent weeks to impose additional sanctions and working with governments to diplomatically isolate this heinous regime.” said Gardner. “Senator Markey and I are going to continue working in a bipartisan manner to give nations and companies a clear choice – do business with the United States or do business with North Korea. This legislation will give the Administration the needed additional tools to peacefully denuclearize the North Korean regime.” “There is no military solution to the threat of a nuclear North Korea,” said Markey. “While the effort to economically and politically isolate North Korea will be essential for a diplomatic strategy to succeed, we must also recognize that pressure, without diplomatic engagement, will quickly become counterproductive. Our diplomatic strategy must combine economic pressure with talks to convince Kim Jong-un that the United States is not the threat he believes us to be and that he does not require nuclear weapons to survive.” Leverage to Enhance Effective Diplomacy Act of 2017: Financial Sanctions Requires the President to block all transactions that are property of the North Korean government, affiliates, or those that conduct significant business activities with North Korea. Requires the President to block any entity or financial institution implicated in any significant trade in goods or services with North Korea from the U.S. financial system. Entities include the top 10 companies doing business with North Korea. Requires the President to produce a strategy to end North Korean labor trafficking practices around the world. Human Rights Support Reauthorizes the North Korea Human Rights Act of 2004 for 5 years, which includes support for broadcasting and human rights/democracy activities. North Korea Policy Review Requires a strategy to address the nuclear and ballistic missile threat posed by North Korea. Requires a Congressional briefing no later than 30 days following any U.S. official diplomatic engagement with North Korea. Requires a report on U.S. citizens currently detained in North Korea. Requires report regarding the use and strategy to end the procurement of certain rocket fuels by North Korea. North Korea Isolation Strategy Requires a global strategy to diplomatically and economically isolate North Korea and to produce a list of countries the Secretary of State considers non-cooperative in such isolations efforts. Authorizes downgrading U.S. relations with any country that fail to take measures to diplomatically and economically isolate North Korea. Authorizes reducing or terminating U.S. assistance to any countries that fail to take measures to diplomatically and economically isolate North Korea. ###
10.02.2017	10.02.17 Gardner Statement on Las Vegas Tragedy Washington, D.C.– Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the below statement following the tragedy in Las Vegas: “My family and I are praying for the families of those injured and killed in Las Vegas last night. The horrific images we are seeing and the stories we will learn about the innocent victims that lost their lives are going to be something that this nation will never forget. May God bless the victims and thank you to our first responders for preventing further loss of life.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
09.28.2017	09.28.17 Gardner Statement on Nomination of Dan Domenico to Colorado’s U.S. District Court Washington, D.C.– Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the below statement following President Trump’s nomination of Dan Domenico to be the next judge to sit on the United States District Court for the District of Colorado. “Dan Domenico is an excellent choice to serve on Colorado’s U.S. District Court,” said Gardner. “Dan’s dedication to the rule of law and time as Colorado’s Solicitor General make him an extremely qualified candidate that will make Colorado proud. I look forward to supporting Dan throughout his confirmation process.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
09.27.2017	09.27.17 Gardner: “It’s Time to Fix our Tax Code” Washington, D.C. – Senator Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement regarding House and Senate Republicans releasing their outline for tax reform on Wednesday. Our nation’s tax code has not been overhauled since 1986. The outline will serve as a blueprint as the House and Senate begin bipartisan hearings on reforming our tax code. “Too many Colorado families have felt like they can’t get ahead over the last few years, and providing tax relief for hardworking families will jump-start the economy and put more money in their pockets,” said Gardner. “The outline released today will serve as a blueprint for the House and Senate as they begin their bipartisan hearings on how we can best fix our confusing and oversized tax code. As talks continue, I’ll make sure that the priorities and interests of Coloradans are front and center." ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
09.26.2017	09.26.17 Gardner, Harris Urge Energy Department to Help Restore Puerto Rico Electric Service Washington, D.C.– Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Kamala Harris (D-CA) today sent a letter to Department of Energy Secretary Rick Perry urging his Department “to work expeditiously with electric utilities across the U.S. to assist the local electric and power utilities and authorities in Puerto Rico to help restore electric services as quickly as possible in the wake of Hurricane Maria." The letter reads in full: Dear Secretary Perry: We write to urge the Department of Energy (DOE) to work expeditiously with electric utilities across the U.S. to assist the local electric and power utilities and authorities in Puerto Rico to help restore electric services as quickly as possible in the wake of Hurricane Maria. We also urge DOE to leverage all existing resources at our national laboratories, including the National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL), to aid in these restorative efforts. On September 20, 2017, Hurricane Maria devastated Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and surrounding islands as a Category 4 storm. The electric grid in Puerto Rico sustained substantial damage and much of the island remains without power, endangering lives and delaying the recovery process. Reports indicate that the hurricane destroyed the vast majority of transmission lines, power lines, and other critical aspects of Puerto Rico’s electric grid. The executive director of the Puerto Rico Electric Power Authority (PREPA) has estimated restoration of power could take at least three or four months, leaving more than 3 million Americans without power on the island for that time. A natural disaster in Puerto Rico should be treated no differently than a natural disaster anywhere else in the United States. We must mobilize all available federal resources to aid in recovery efforts and your Department will play a critical role as we work to bring stability to the island and relief for our fellow Americans.Sincerely, You can find a PDF of the letter here. ###
09.26.2017	09.26.17 Gardner Authors Proposal to Delay Costly Health Insurance Tax Washington, D.C.–Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) introduced the Healthcare Tax Relief Act on Tuesday. This legislation delays the “Health Insurance Tax” created by the Affordable Care Act for one year. The tax is a fee to health insurers on their health policy premiums. Joining Senator Gardner as original cosponsors of the legislation are Senators Inhofe (R-OK), Cotton (R-AR), Johnson (R-WI), Portman (R-OH), Flake (R-AZ), Blunt (R-MO), Barrasso (R-WY), Cruz (R-TX), Heller (R-NV), and Scott (R-SC). “We need to look at every avenue we can to provide relief to the American people from the high costs created by the Affordable Care Act,” said Gardner. “My legislation delays a tax that once implemented would lead to even higher costs of care for Coloradans.” According to policy think tank American Action Forum, if implemented, the Health Insurance Tax would increase premiums as much as $5,000 over a decade. It would also directly impact approximately 11 million households that purchase insurance through the individual market and another 23 million households that have insurance through their employer. “President Obama promised that this law would drive down costs, and this tax is just another example of how that’s not even close to being reality,”continued Gardner. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
09.21.2017	09.21.17 Gardner’s North Korea Playbook Being Carried out by Trump Administration Washington, D.C.–Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Chairman of the Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity, released the following statement reading the Trump Administration’s announcement that they will expand authority to go after individuals, businesses, and banks involved with trade with North Korea. “The actions announced by the Administration today are what I have been calling for, and are a huge step forward in the United States efforts to stop a nuclear war from breaking out on the Korean Peninsula,” said Gardner. “We need to make the choice clear to North Korea’s enablers, wherever they are based: they can do business with the United States, the most powerful economy in the world, or they can do business with an outlaw regime in North Korea.” China accounts for 90 percent of North Korea’s trade and there are over 5,000 Chinese companies doing business with North Korea. Earlier this summer, Senator Gardner introducedbipartisan legislation that would ban any entity that does business with North Korea or its enablers from using the United States financial system. The Executive Order reflects Gardner’s legislation and targets entities that Gardner has long called to sanction. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
09.20.2017	09.20.17 Gardner, Bipartisan Group of Senators Advocate for Community Health Centers Washington, D.C.– Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) sent a letter with Senators Roy Blunt (R-MO) and Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) to Senators Lamar Alexander (R-TN) and Patty Murray (D-WA), the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions respectively, to urge a “swift resolution to the funding cliff community health centers face at the end of the month.” The letter reads in full: Dear Chairman Alexander and Ranking Member Murray, We write today to share our strong support for community health centers and to urge swift resolution to the funding cliff community health centers face at the end of the month. Community health centers serve a critical role in communities throughout the United States and are important safety net providers. If Congress allows the Community Health Centers Fund (CHCF) to lapse, it would immediately threaten patient access to the cost-effective primary and preventive care health centers provide. We respectfully request you take immediate action to address CHCF funding. Community health centers have long enjoyed strong bipartisan support. Since their initial creation over fifty years ago, community health centers have been a critical component of the nation’s primary care network, today serving approximately 26 million patients at over 10,000 sites throughout the United States. Community health centers operate in both rural and urban areas, in every state in the nation, and are an important part of the health care ecosystem of their communities. Last year, health centers were the medical home for one in twelve Americans, one in ten children, one in six Americans living in rural areas, and more than 330,000 of our nation’s veterans. Congress’ previous investments in the community health center program have yielded real results and vastly improved the health and well-being of countless communities throughout the United States. Without extension of the CHCF, community health centers will lose seventy percent of their funding. This will result in an estimated 2,800 site closures, the loss of 50,000 jobs, and result in 9 million Americans losing their access to care. Along with the health center impact, the National Health Service Corps and the Teaching Health Centers Graduate Medical Education programs are at risk of expiry. As small businesses, health centers need predictability to secure financing for capital projects, to sign contracts, to recruit and retain providers and staff, and to sustain operations. We are already hearing of the disruptive effects of the uncertainty created by the impending funding cliff on health center operations—this disruption will increase significantly without an extension of funding by September 30. We believe the strong bipartisan support the community health center program receives every year is a strong indicator of the importance of the program to the nation. We stand ready to work with you to ensure that the CHCF continues to be a vibrant program that has improved the health and well-being of many of our nation’s most vulnerable individuals and communities. Thank you for your consideration of our thoughts. We stand ready to work with you to fund the community health center program to ensure no losses in health care access for the millions of Americans served by community health centers. Sincerely, The letter was also signed by Senators Robert Menendez (D-N.J.), John Boozman (R-Ark.), Bernie Sanders (D-Vt.), Roger Wicker (R-Miss.), Tom Carper (D-Del.), Shelley Moore Capito (R-W.Va.), Ben Cardin (D-Md.), Mike Crapo (R-Idaho), Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio), Dean Heller (R-Nev.), Tammy Baldwin (D-Wis.), Bill Cassidy (R-La.), Heidi Heitkamp (D-N.D.), Thad Cochran (R-Miss.), Dick Durbin (D-Ill.), Michael Bennet (D-Colo.), Rob Portman (R-Ohio), Claire McCaskill (D-Mo.), Dan Sullivan (R-Ark.), Bill Nelson (D-Fla.), John Barrasso (D-Wyo.), Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.), Deb Fisher (R-Neb.), Jon Tester (D-Mont.), Steve Daines (R-Mont.), Joe Manchin (D-W.Va.), Thom Tillis (R-N.C.), Joe Donnelly (D-Ind.), David Perdue (R-Ga.), Jeanne Shaheen (D-N.H.), Susan Collins (R-Maine), Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), Jim Risch (R-Idaho), Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.), Chris Coons (D-Del.), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.), Mazie Hirono (D-Hawaii), Martin Heinrich (D-N.M.), Chris Murphy (D-Conn.), Tom Udall (D-N.M.), Angus King (I-Maine), Gary Peters (D-Mich.), Tammy Duckworth (D-Ill.), Chris Van Hollen (D-Md.), Maggie Hassan (D-N.H.), Kamala Harris (D-Calif.), Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-N.Y.), Jack Reed (D-R.I.), Ed Markey (D-Mass.), Catherine Cortez-Masto (D-N.V.), Cory Booker (D-N.J.), Tim Kaine (D-Va.), Jeff Merkley (D-Ore.), Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.), John Kennedy (R-La.), John Hoeven (R-N.D.), and Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) and Bob Casey (D-Pa.). ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
09.20.2017	09.20.17 Gardner, Bennet Introduce Bill to Permanently Fix Wildfire Funding Washington, D.C. – U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Michael Bennet (D-CO) introduced an updated version of their bipartisan wildfire funding solution that would provide desperately needed funding for fire prevention. “It may not be getting headlines in the national news, but wildfires have burned millions of acres in the West this year and the communities impacted in Colorado need assistance,” Gardner said. “I’ve been working to advance this legislation to stop fire borrowing for several years, and I appreciate the strong bipartisan support to ensure the Forest Service has the funds it needs for clean-up and prevention efforts while also finally requiring the government to treat wildfires like it does other natural disasters.” “Catastrophic wildfires continue to plague the West, not only threatening communities and livelihoods but also draining the Forest Service budget,” Bennet said. “We need to restructure the way we pay for fighting catastrophic fires to mitigate and prevent future wildfires. This bill would end the practice of fire borrowing—a necessary step that will enable the Forest Service to make responsible investments on the front end to restore our forests and safeguard our watersheds.” Unlike for other natural disasters, where agencies can draw from an emergency fund to pay for disaster response, the U.S. Forest Service and Interior Department do not have access to disaster funds and are forced to “fire borrow” – or steal money from fire prevention and other important programs already funded in their agencies to pay to put out fires. The Wildfire Disaster Funding Act of 2017 would end the destructive cycle of fire borrowing and stop the erosion of the Forest Service’s budget by reforming the way the federal government funds wildfires. Currently, federal agencies calculate wildfire suppression budgets based on the average costs of wildfire suppression over the past 10 years. But as fire seasons grow longer and wildfires become more expensive to fight, Congress is forced to appropriate more funding to an outdated budgeting system that almost always underestimates the actual cost of fighting fires. This legislation would fund wildfires as natural disasters and protect the agencies’ fire prevention budget by putting a freeze on the rising budget costs of the 10-year average. It would make funding available after the appropriated fire suppression funds are spent, allowing the Forest Service to use its fire prevention funding for its intended purpose – completing hazardous fuels reduction projects that have been shown to help break the cycle of increasingly dangerous and costly fires. Earlier this month, Bennet sent a letter with a bipartisan group of Senators to Senate Leaders Mitch McConnell (R-KY) and Charles Schumer (D-NY) urging them to include a wildfire funding fix in any future disaster aid legislation that passes through Congress. Gardner has also directly spoken with McConnell about the wildfire funding fix. In addition to Gardner and Bennet, the bill is cosponsored by Senators Ron Wyden (D-OR), Mike Crapo (R-ID), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Jim Risch (R-ID), Maria Cantwell (D-WA), Orrin Hatch (R-UT), and Jeff Merkley (D-OR). ###
09.20.2017	09.20.17 Gardner Introduces Justice Allison Eid at Confirmation Hearing Washington, D.C.– Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today introduced Colorado Supreme Court Justice Allison Eid to the Judiciary Committee at her confirmation hearing to become the next judge on the United States Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit. You can watch Senator Gardner’s remarks by clicking here. Gardner has been a vocal supporter of Allison Eid and released a statement when she was nominated to the post in June. Remarks as Prepared For Delivery: Chairman Grassley, Ranking Member Feinstein, thank you for the opportunity to speak before the committee today. It is an honor and a genuine pleasure to be here to introduce my good friend, Justice Allison H. Eid, and to offer my strong support for her confirmation as a judge on the United States Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit. There is no doubt that Justice Eid is superbly qualified for the position. For the past decade she has served as a Justice on the Colorado Supreme Court. And in 2008, Justice Eid was overwhelmingly retained by the people of Colorado. Prior to her appointment, Justice Eid represented the State of Colorado before the state and federal courts as the state’s Solicitor General. She also served as a tenured member of the faculty at the University of Colorado School of Law, where she has taught courses in Constitutional Law, Legislation, and Torts, and she has published scholarly articles on topics like constitutional federalism and tort law. In addition, Justice Eid has practiced commercial and appellate litigation at the Denver office of the national law firm Arnold and Porter. Justice Eid began her legal career as a law clerk to Judge Jerry E. Smith on the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. She then served as a law clerk to United States Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas. Prior to attending law school, Justice Eid was a Special Assistant and Speechwriter for United States Secretary of Education William J. Bennett. She received her law degree from The University of Chicago Law School, where she was Articles Editor of Law Review. She graduated with High Honors and as a member of the Order of the Coif. She received her A.B. in American Studies from Stanford University, graduating With Distinction and as a member of Phi Beta Kappa. What her resume makes clear is that, whatever Justice Eid does, she does it at the highest level. Indeed, National Native American Bar Association has even noted that she has “significantly more experience with Indian law cases than any other recent Circuit Court nominee.” She even does being a nominee at the highest level. But as impressive as her credentials are, it is her demeanor and approach to the law that make her ideally suited for the court. Justice Eid has been called a “mainstream, commonsense Westerner.” She is also, as her former law clerks have noted, “fiercely independent” and she will decide cases “as she believes the law requires.” At the same time, she seeks out different viewpoints and wants to understand all sides of each issue she addresses. That is the professor I know from my days as a student at the University of Colorado School of Law. I can say from personal experience that, while Justice Eid has her perspective on the law, she cares deeply about robust debate and hearing the views of others. And I know from my classmates that did not always share her perspective that Justice Eid was open to their views—she engaged them—and she was never biased against differing perspectives. Yet I also know that “fiercely independent” jurist her former clerks described. Justice Eid will follow the law regardless of the popular wind. Whether considering the plain meaning of a statute; discerning the proper role of the courts, the legislative branch, or the executive and its agencies; or evaluating the relationship between the federal government and the states, Justice Eid will side with what the law says. And she will do it in that commonsense Westerner way. It is a privilege to introduce Justice Eid to this committee. And I look forward to working with this committee and all of our colleagues to confirm Justice Eid to the Tenth Circuit. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
09.18.2017	09.18.17 Gardner Calls on China, 20 Additional Countries to Cease Diplomatic and Economic Ties with North Korea Urges United Nations to Expel North Korea Washington, D.C.– Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Chairman of the Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity, today sent a letter to Ambassadors of nations maintaining diplomatic ties with North Korea, calling to “cease all official diplomatic and economic relations with the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (DPRK).” In the letter, Gardner also calls on the United Nations to expel the DPRK from the international body, as the United Nations General Assembly begins in New York today. The countries included are those that still maintain Embassies and other diplomatic facilities in the DPRK. In the letter, Gardner writes, “Now is the time to diplomatically and economically isolate this regime, until it fully and irreversibly commits to peaceful denuclearization. Maintaining official diplomatic relations with a regime that continues to defy international law and threaten nations across the globe only serves to reward nefarious behavior.” Gardner has been the Senate’s leading voice on the DPRK and recently introduced bipartisan legislation that would impose a U.S. economic embargo against any entity that does business with the DPRK or assists in its labor trafficking abuses. Gardner sent the first letter to Cui Tiankai, China’s Ambassador to the United States. Gardner will also send identical copies of the letter to Ambassadors to the United States from Brazil, the United Kingdom, Bulgaria, Cambodia, Cuba, Czech Republic, Egypt, Germany, India, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Mongolia, Nigeria, Pakistan, Poland, Romania, Russia, Sweden, and Vietnam. The letter reads in full below: Your Excellency: I write to respectfully urge your government to immediately cease all official diplomatic and economic relations with the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (DPRK), including immediately closing all of your diplomatic facilities in the DPRK. The DPRK is an imminent and growing threat to global peace and stability. The United Nations Security Council has repeatedly condemned DPRK’s illicit activities and has imposed sanctions against this outlaw regime, most recently under United Nations Security Council Resolution 2375, adopted on September 11, 2017. Now is the time to diplomatically and economically isolate this regime, until it fully and irreversibly commits to peaceful denuclearization. Maintaining official diplomatic relations with a regime that continues to defy international law and threaten nations across the globe only serves to reward nefarious behavior. In addition to cutting off bilateral ties, I urge your government to support expelling the DPRK from the United Nations. Article 6 of the United Nations Charter states: “A Member of the United Nations which has persistently violated the Principles contained in the present Charter may be expelled from the Organization by the General Assembly upon the recommendation of the Security Council.” There is no nation on Earth that deserves this dishonor more than the DPRK. I ask your government to support these necessary and important steps to isolate this belligerent regime. Sincerely, Cory Gardner Chairman Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
09.14.2017	09.14.17 Gardner Backs Effort to Advance Medical Marijuana Research Washington, D.C.– Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) introduced the Marijuana Effective Drug Study (MEDS) Act of 2017 to improve the process for conducting scientific research on marijuana as a safe and effective medical treatment. The legislation’s lead sponsor was Senator Orrin Hatch (R-UT). “Our medical community continues to find new ways medical marijuana can help patients but currently there are too many barriers that are holding back even further advancements and research,” said Gardner. “This legislation is simple. It will make it easier for our universities, hospitals, and scientists to look at new ways that medical marijuana can be used for treatment.” The MEDS Act will: Encourage more research on the potential medical uses of marijuana by streamlining the research registration process, without imposing a scheduling determination on the Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA). Make marijuana more available for legitimate scientific and medical research and the commercial production of any FDA-approved drugs derived from marijuana. Retain important checks to protect against diversion or abuse of the controlled marijuana substances. · Require the National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA) to develop and publish recommendations for good manufacturing practices for growing and producing marijuana for research. Require the Attorney General to increase the national marijuana quota in a timely manner to meet the changing medical, scientific, and industrial needs for marijuana. Codify the administration’s decision to terminate the Public Health Service and its review of proposals for medical research on marijuana. Prevent the Department of Health and Human Services from instituting any other marijuana-specific protocol reviews, other than the voluntary review that a researcher can request from National Institutes of Health (NIH) in order to access the expedited DEA registration process. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
09.13.2017	09.13.17 Gardner, Bennet Laud Bipartisan Agreement to Extend Funding for Children’s Health Insurance Program Washington, D.C. - Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Michael Bennet (D-CO) today lauded a five-year bipartisan agreement in the Senate Finance Committee to provide health insurance for vulnerable children through the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP). In Colorado, CHIP was essential in driving the percent of uninsured children to an all-time low of 2.5 percent. "Republicans and Democrats have a responsibility to come together to extend the CHIP program that covers thousands of Colorado children," Gardner said. "Senator Bennet and I are going to keep working with our colleagues on both sides of the aisle to ensure this agreement crosses the finish line and is signed into law." "Ensuring Colorado's kids have access to affordable quality health care is common sense,"Bennet said. "Last night's announcement is a promising step forward in extending the CHIP program and ensuring its viability for the future. Millions of our most vulnerable children have benefited from CHIP, and we must continue to build on its success so every kid can lead a healthy life and meet their fullest potential." The current reauthorization for CHIP funding is set to expire on September 30, 2017. The agreement to extend funding reached in the Finance Committee includes a five-year commitment to the federal-state partnership. In addition to the 90,000 children in Colorado covered by CHIP, about 600 pregnant woman are covered by the program. ###
09.13.2017	09.13.17 Gardner Statement on Socialized Medicine Plan Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement following the introduction of Senator Bernie Sanders’ socialized medicine plan: “The Bernie Sanders socialized medicine plan is not the answer to fix our broken healthcare system,” said Gardner. “Year after year, Coloradans are forced to reckon with rising insurance premiums and fewer choices and anyone who thinks a government takeover of our healthcare system is the answer is not serious about finding real solutions for the American people. The Obamacare markets have proven to be a failure in states across the country, including Colorado, and it is not reasonable to think more government is the solution. I’m concerned that if we are already struggling to afford a Medicare program that our seniors rely on, a Medicare-for-all system will result in even less resources for the seniors who the program was originally designed to protect. I will continue to work in a bipartisan fashion and fight for market reforms that will increase choices, lower costs, and result in affordable health insurance for Coloradans.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
09.11.2017	09.11.17 Gardner Statement on September 11th Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement remembering September 11, 2001. “Sixteen years ago, our nation experienced the most horrific terror attack in our country’s history,” said Gardner. “We will never forget that awful day and the innocent lives lost. We are forever grateful for our first responders, volunteers, and every person who took action that day to help those in need. Our country showed the world how Americans unite in the wake of tragedy. As we continue the fight against terrorism, we are thankful for our men and women in uniform who are on the front lines safeguarding our freedoms.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
09.06.2017	09.06.17 Gardner: “Our Current Healthcare System Will Continue to Fail Coloradans if we Don’t do Something” Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement regarding the announcement on Wednesday by the Colorado Division of Insurance that premiums will increase by an average of 26.7% in 2018 on the individual health insurance marketplace. “Our current healthcare system will continue to fail Coloradans if we don’t do something to address the rising costs created by the Affordable Care Act,” said Gardner. “This should not be ok. It should not be accepted as normal that just like previous years, healthcare insurance costs will continue to go up on thousands of Coloradans next year. “I’m going to continue working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle about getting something done to repair the damage the Affordable Care Act is having on Colorado’s healthcare system.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
09.06.2017	09.06.17 Gardner to Hold Grand Junction Town Hall 5th Town Hall Since August Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) will hold a town hall meeting on Friday, September 8th in Grand Junction. It will be Senator Gardner’s 5th town hall since August. Constituents are encouraged to arrive early, as space is limited. The events are open to the public and the media. If you are a member of the media interested in attending the event, please RSVP by sending an email to Senator Gardner’s Press Secretary, Casey Contres, atcasey_contres@gardner.senate.gov. GRAND JUNCTION TOWN HALL Who: U.S. Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) What: Grand Junction Town Hall When: Friday, September 8, 10:00 a.m. – 11:30 a.m. MT Doors open at 9:00 a.m. MT Where: Robinson Theatre in the Moss Performing Arts Center Colorado Mesa University 1100 North Avenue, Grand Junction Free parking is available at Stocker Stadium, North 12th Street, Grand Junction. NOTE: Date and time are subject to change per Senate vote schedule. Gardner’s office will make an additional announcement if the schedule changes. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
09.05.2017	09.05.17 Gardner, Bennet Cosponsor Dream Act of 2017 Washington, D.C. – Colorado U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Michael Bennet (D-CO) today cosponsored the Dream Act of 2017. “Children who came to this country without documentation, through no fault of their own, must have the opportunity to remain here lawfully,” Gardner said. “I’m proud to join with Senator Bennet and cosponsor the Dream Act to provide certainty to the thousands of law-abiding Coloradan Dreamers and demonstrate bipartisan leadership on this important issue. I have long called for an overhaul of our country’s immigration system and believe this is an important step. I will continue to work with Senator Bennet and our colleagues in the Senate to move this bill forward into law.” “The Dream Act offers a promising solution amid a time of uncertainty for hundreds of thousands of young immigrants around the country—especially in light of the President’s decision today to rescind DACA,” Bennet said. “While comprehensive immigration reform should remain a long-term solution, we also need a more immediate fix to protect Dreamers. I have long supported legislation that makes clear what we already know: supporting Dreamers boosts our economy, strengthens our national security, and aligns with our values. Congress must move quickly to pass this legislation.” The Dream Act of 2017 would allow a select group of young immigrants, known as Dreamers, to contribute more fully to the only country they know as home and offer a pathway to earned citizenship. The legislation would grant conditional permanent residence followed by lawful permanent residence to young people who arrive in the United States before they turn 18; graduate from high school or obtained a GED; pursue higher education, work lawfully for at least 3 years, or serve in the military; pass security checks; and demonstrate proficiency in English and a knowledge of U.S. history. Ultimately, allowing Dreamers to continue receiving education and contributing hundreds of billions of dollars to the national GDP is beneficial to the United States’ society, economy, and national security. This legislation would allow a generation of young immigrants to reach their full potential. ###
09.03.2017	09.03.17 Gardner Statement on North Korea Nuclear Test Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity, released the following statement regarding North Korea carrying out a what may have been their most advanced and significant nuclear test under Kim Jong Un’s regime. "Now is the time to take unprecedented steps to stop North Korea,” said Gardner. “This latest nuclear test by Kim Jong Un may be the clearest sign that we have seen that they are ready and willing to start a nuclear war that would lead to unimaginable destruction and loss of life on the Korean Peninsula. “The international community needs to finally join together in completely isolating this dangerous regime. North Korea should be immediately kicked out of the United Nations and under the leadership of the United States, the United Nations Security Council should enact a new resolution that imposes a full economic embargo on North Korea that bans all of Pyongyang's economic activities, including petroleum resources, except for limited humanitarian exceptions. I am also continuing to call on the Administration to block all entities that do business with North Korea, no matter where they are based, from conducting any financial activities through the US financial system. My bipartisan legislation would achieve this goal and I am ready to work with the Administration and leaders in Congress to pass this bill immediately. “These economic tools need to be combined with robust military deterrent, including imposing a US-led international naval blockade of North Korea in order to ensure a full enforcement of United Nations actions. We must also continue frequent show of force exercises by the United States and our partners in Seoul and Tokyo, enhanced missile defense activities, and assurance of extended US nuclear deterrence to our allies. Kim Jong Un must know that any serious provocation will be met with a full range of US military capabilities." Gardner recently introduced bipartisan legislation that would ban any entity that does business with North Korea or its enablers from using the United States financial system. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
08.25.2017	08.25.17 Gardner Proposal to Relocate Bureau of Land Management to the West Gains Momentum Washington, DC – Earlier this week, a report indicated Secretary of the Interior Ryan Zinke plans to relocate the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) to the West, an idea first proposed by Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO). Gardner has led the charge to relocate BLM’s headquarters to the West and first raised the idea at an Energy and Natural Resources hearing in June of 2016. Gardner spoke to Secretary Zinke about his proposal prior to Zinke’s confirmation. Gardner also brought up the issue publically during Zinke’s confirmation hearing. In May, Gardner introduced the Bureau of Land Management Headquarters Relocation Act, legislation that would authorize the move of the Bureau of Land Management’s (BLM) headquarters from Washington, D.C. to one of the following Western states: Alaska, Arizona, California, Colorado, Idaho, Montana, Nevada, New Mexico, Oregon, Utah, Washington, or Wyoming. Congressman Scott Tipton (CO-3) introduced the House companion bill. “I’m thrilled Secretary Zinke is looking to relocate the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) West and move the agency’s headquarters to Colorado,” said Gardner. “Ninety-nine percent of the nearly 250 million acres of land managed by BLM is west of the Mississippi River, and having the decision-makers present in the communities they impact will lead to better results. This is an idea I first proposed last summer, and after a year of work, it seems it will soon become a reality. I will continue to work with Secretary Zinke to further this effort and look forward to welcoming BLM to Colorado soon.” Gardner’s proposal has earned the support of countless Coloradans and local officials, including Club 20, Grand Junction Area Chamber of Commerce, Colorado Farm Bureau, Fruita Chamber of Commerce, Colorado Rural Electric Association, Colorado Wool Growers Association, Grand County, Hinsdale County, and Montezuma County. Additionally, Gardner published an op-ed in the Grand Junction Daily Sentineltouting his idea and encouraging others to support his proposal. Click here to watch Senator Gardner raise moving BLM West at Zinke’s confirmation hearing. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
08.23.2017	08.23.17 Gardner Completes Annual Colorado Farm Tour in Arkansas Valley Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) finished his annual Colorado Farm Tour on Wednesday. He spent the day in Pueblo, Crowley, and Otero counties. Throughout the week, Gardner visited nine counties and made over a dozen stops across the Eastern Plains and Southern Colorado. “I was raised by a family that depended on a strong agriculture industry in Colorado to make a living and not a lot has changed since then,” said Gardner. “This week was another important opportunity to meet with farmers, small business owners, and community leaders that are impacted by agriculture in order to see what I can be doing for them as their representative in the Senate. We have a lot to do on the Farm Bill, and I will work hard to put in place policies that positively impact the thousands of Coloradans that work in the agriculture industry every day.” Gardner’s first stop of the day was in Pueblo for a tour of the Steelworks museum. He then started the Ag portion of the day in Crowley County. He met with farmers and local officials in Olney Springs to discuss needed regulatory reforms. He then went to Otero County for visits to Knapps Farm Market and Hirakata Farms in Rocky Ford. Gardner’s last stop of the day was in La Junta for a tour of Diamond A Farms. Click here for info about day 1 of Gardner’s farm tourClick here for info about day 2 of Gardner’s farm tour Counties visited this week by Gardner:Kit Carson, Cheyenne, Kiowa, Prowers, Baca, Las Animas, Pueblo, Crowley, and Otero ###
08.22.2017	08.22.17 Day Two of Gardner Farm Tour Includes Stops in Southern Colorado Washington, DC –Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) finished day two of his annual Colorado Farm Tour on Tuesday. He spent the day in Prowers, Baca, Las Animas, and Pueblo counties. “I had another great day meeting with farmers and local officials,” said Gardner. “Our rural communities have faced some new challenges over the last few years and as we start to craft the next Farm Bill, meetings like I’m having this week help me make certain that any major reforms we are developing for our agricultural programs are good for Coloradans first and foremost.” Gardner started off the day in Lamar for a meeting with Dr. Linda Lujan, President of Lamar Community College. While most of the week is devoted to meeting with farmers, Lamar Community College has several classes for students hoping to get more involved in the agriculture industry and is another example of how the region is directly and indirectly impacted by a strong agriculture industry. Following his meeting with Dr. Lujan, Senator Gardner went to Springfield for a meeting with Baca County Farm Bureau members and local elected officials. Gardner’s next stop was in Las Animas County for a meeting with farm bureau members, county commissioners, and other members of the community in Trinidad and Hoehne at the Hoehne Community Center. In addition to answering questions on agriculture, Gardner also discussed healthcare, public lands, and foreign policy issues. Gardner will complete day two of his farm tour in Pueblo this evening, where he will meet with Pueblo County Farm Bureau members at Milberger’s Farm. ###
08.22.2017	08.22.17 Gardner Applauds New Sanctions Targeting Russian and Chinese Entities Aiding North Korea Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity applauded new sanctions announced today by the Treasury Department against 10 entities and six individuals that are directly and indirectly aiding the North Korean regime. The companies and individuals being sanctioned are based in China, Russia, and Singapore. “I applaud this step by the Administration to impose long-overdue sanctions on these Russian and Chinese entities,” said Gardner. “However, we need to do more – much more – in imposing penalties on all North Korean enablers, no matter where they are based. We must give every entity doing business with Pyongyang a choice – you either do business with this outlaw regime or the world’s economic superpower.” Included in the sanctions announced today are businesses and individuals that have allowed for hundreds of billions of dollars in economic activity for North Korea over the last few years. Some of the businesses purchase billions of dollars in coal, while others enable North Korea to launder money through them. “When North Korea receives money from foreign businesses, they don’t turn around and give it to their starving people,” continued Gardner. “Kim Jong Un puts it into his nuclear and ballistic missile programs. One of the most effective ways in stopping these weapons advancements is to choke off their financial support across the world.” Gardner has called for stronger actions by the Administration in sanctioning anyone aiding North Korea. He recently introduced bipartisan legislation that would ban any entity that does business with North Korea or its enablers from using the United States financial system. One of the sanctioned businesses announced today is named in Gardner’s legislation. ###
08.21.2017	08.21.17 Gardner Tours Eastern Plains Farms on Day One of Annual Colorado Farm Tour Washington, DC –Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) finished day one of his annual Colorado Farm Tour on Monday. He spent the day on the Eastern Plains. “My annual farm tour is an excellent opportunity to hear firsthand from the men and women that are part of Colorado’s agriculture industry,” said Gardner. “Throughout the week I’ll be stopping at different farms and businesses across the Eastern Plains to see what I can be doing to best serve our farmers, ranchers, and small businesses involved in agriculture.” Gardner started off the day in Kit Carson County at Eastern Colorado Seeds in Burlington. He then went to Cheyenne County to meet with some local farm bureau members before stopping at Nan’s in Cheyenne Wells for a lunch meeting with county officials and additional farmers from the community. Gardner’s next stop of the day was in Kiowa County at a Milo farm a few miles outside of Eads. Also included in the day was a separate stop away from the farm tour. Gardner visited Camp Amache, a Japanese Internment Camp that was near Granada during WWII and met with local high school students, as well as Granada city and Prowers County officials. “Two of the issues that seem to come up at every stop are government regulations and trade,” continued Gardner. “I will continue to support efforts to eliminate burdensome and duplicative government regulations that hamper Colorado’s agriculture community, and I’m going to keep pushing back on the Administration regarding any changes in trade policies that limit Colorado farmers access to new export markets across the world.” Later this evening Gardner will be capping off the day with a dinner with Lamar County Farm Bureau members at the Cow Palace Inn in Lamar. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
08.11.2017	08.11.17 MEDIA ADVISORY: Gardner to Hold Three Town Halls along the Front Range Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) will hold three town hall meetings on Tuesday, August 15th in Colorado Springs, Greeley, and Lakewood. Constituents are encouraged to arrive early, as space is limited. The events are open to the public and the media. If you are a member of the media interested in attending the event, please RSVP by sending an email to Senator Gardner’s Press Secretary, Casey Contres, at casey_contres@gardner.senate.gov. COLORADO SPRINGS TOWN HALL Who: U.S. Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) What: Colorado Springs Town Hall When: Tuesday, August 15, 7:30 a.m. – 9:00 a.m. MT Doors open at 7:00 a.m. MT Where: Pikes Peak Community College Room A-1105675 S. Academy Blvd Colorado Springs, CO 80906. GREELEY TOWN HALL Who: U.S. Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) What: Greeley Town Hall When: Tuesday, August 15, 12:00 p.m. – 1:30 p.m. MT Doors open at 11:00 a.m. MT Where: University School Auditorium 6519 18th St. Greeley, CO 80634 LAKEWOOD TOWN HALL Who: U.S. Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) What: Lakewood Town Hall When: Tuesday, August 15, 3:30 p.m. – 5:00 p.m. MT Doors open at 2:30 p.m. MT Where: Colorado Christian UniversityCCU Event Center 8787 W. Alameda Ave. Lakewood, CO 80226 ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
08.09.2017	08.09.17 Gardner Addresses Situation in North Korea Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner, Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia and the Pacific released the following statement regarding the developing situation in North Korea: "Our policy toward North Korea should be straight forward - we will deploy every economic, diplomatic, and if necessary military tool to deter them. I will continue to call on this administration to fully implement my sanctions legislation that is currently law, in order to dramatically ramp up pressure that can bring Kim Jong Un to his senses and to stop what would be a dramatic loss of life on the Korean Peninsula and a direct threat to US military personnel stationed in the region. “We can only negotiate with this rogue regime from a position of strength, and I firmly believe the best option to stop North Korea goes through Beijing. China is responsible for 90% of North Korea's trade, a tenfold increase in the last 15 years. It’s time to hold China accountable for their refusal to shut off trade with North Korea, and if they do not take the necessary steps to help us prevent a nuclear war, it must mean that business as usual is over between the United States and China.” Gardner authored the North Korea Sanctions Policy and Enhancement Act. Signed into law by President Obama in February of 2016, the legislation marked the first time Congress imposed stand-alone mandatory sanctions on North Korea. Gardner has called for additional steps –including his bipartisan legislation recently authored that would ban any entity that does business with North Korea or its enablers from using the United States financial system. ###
08.04.2017	08.04.17 Gardner Concludes Tour of Gold King Mine and Durango Town Hall Washington, DC – Today, Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), along with Senator Michael Bennet (D-CO), Governor John Hickenlooper, and Congressman Scott Tipton (CO-3), toured the site of the Gold King Mine spill with Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Scott Pruitt and held a town hall meeting in Durango. “During Administrator Pruitt’s confirmation process, I secured a commitment from him to visit southwest Colorado and tour the site of the Gold King Mine spill so we can work together to make our communities whole,” said Gardner. “I’m encouraged Administrator Pruitt followed up on that commitment and visited the mine today with a bipartisan delegation to discuss how we can work to ensure a similar disaster never occurs. “It was equally important to hear from constituents at today’s town hall and answer a wide range of questions on topics, such as the Gold King Mine, healthcare, Colorado’s pristine public lands, and jobs and economic growth. Hearing from Coloradans and working together to develop policies that are good for Colorado is one of my top priorities, and I look forward to traveling around the state over the August state work period and visiting with Coloradans from different parts of the state.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
08.04.2017	08.04.17 Gardner Announces New Denver Office Location Washington, DC – Senator Gardner announced today that his Denver office will be moving to the U.S. Custom House, a federal building, at 721 19th Street, Suite 150 in Denver. This is a temporary space and Gardner’s office will be announcing a permanent location at a later date. All constituent services will continue to be offered uninterrupted in the temporary office space starting Monday, August 7th, and Gardner’s Denver office can still be reached at (303) 391-5777. “The most important part of my job is to do everything I can to best serve my constituents, and the new space that we will be moving to will allow that to continue,”said Gardner. “I always encourage Coloradans to visit my office when seeking assistance with any issues with the federal government or just to stop by and say hello.” Types of Services Offered in Senator Gardner’s Denver Office: · Military and Veteran Assistance · Social Security and Retirement · Healthcare and Insurance · Passport and Overseas Travel · Taxes and IRS Issues · Immigration and Citizenship · Consumer Protection · Housing and Home Ownership Gardner has seven other office locations around Colorado located in Fort Collins, Yuma, Greeley, Colorado Springs, Pueblo, Grand Junction, and Durango. For contact information for these locations, click here. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
08.03.2017	08.03.17 Gardner, Hassan AIRWAVES Act Earns Praise Across Industries and Political Parties Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Maggie Hassan (D-NH) recently introduced the Advancing Innovation and Reinvigorating Widespread Access to Viable Electromagnetic Spectrum (AIRWAVES) Act, which will encourage the federal government to continue to free up spectrum for commercial licensed and unlicensed use and leverage the success of spectrum auctions to help close the urban-rural divide. Learn more about the legislation here. What They Are Saying: FCC LEADERSHIP: FCC Chairman Pai “I am grateful to Senators Gardner and Hassan for introducing the AIRWAVES Act. This bipartisan bill addresses an issue that’s critical to continued American leadership in wireless innovation: making available more spectrum for commercial use. I’m also very pleased that they have proposed a ‘rural dividend,’ under which 10 percent of proceeds from spectrum auctions would be devoted to increasing wireless Internet access in rural areas. This provision would go a long way toward closing the digital divide, which has left too many rural Americans in the analog era. I look forward to working with Senators Gardner and Hassan on their forward-thinking legislation.” FCC Commissioner O’Rielly “I applaud Senators Gardner and Hassan for introducing critical spectrum legislation and for their leadership on such an important issue. There is a lot to like in the bill, including firm spectrum deadlines and auctions for key bands. I look forward to working with them and others in Congress as the bill moves forward.” FCC Commissioner Clyburn “I applaud today’s bipartisan introduction of the Advancing Innovation and Reinvigorating Widespread Access to Viable Electromagnetic Spectrum Act (‘AIRWAVES Act’). Senators Gardner and Hassan rightly highlight the need for a ‘comprehensive, technology-neutral spectrum policy that includes licensed, unlicensed, and shared use of spectrum bands. Ensuring that we have a steady pipeline of spectrum to meet the country’s growing need for wireless broadband is vital to our ability to remain on the cutting edge of innovation, promote entrepreneurship, and enable communities to harness the opportunities of broadband. Notably, the bill directs the Commission to study how unlicensed spectrum can be harnessed to meet the needs of rural communities, especially with regard to healthcare, distance learning and agriculture. I am also pleased that the bill proposes that 10 percent of competitive bidding proceeds be set aside for deployment of wireless infrastructure in underserved and unserved areas. I stand ready to work with my colleagues and members of Congress to ensure that all Americans, no matter where they live, can take advantage of the opportunities of a fully connected nation.” INDUSTRY & ASSOCIATIONS: CTIA – The Wireless Association, Kelly Cole, Senior VP of Government Affairs “CTIA applauds Senators Gardner and Hassan for their forward thinking, bipartisan leadership in introducing the AIRWAVES Act. This legislation provides a much needed long-term plan to unlock valuable licensed spectrum as demand for wireless data and content continues to skyrocket. A predictable spectrum pipeline is vital to meet consumers’ need for new and innovative services and sustain U.S. global leadership in a fast-approaching 5G world. We thank Senators Gardner and Hassan and we look forward to swift movement on this important bill.” ITIF – Information Technology & Innovation Foundation “Spectrum policy should support a mix of licensing schemes to support a diversity of Internet access models, including licensed, unlicensed, and effective spectrum-sharing models. We commend Senators Gardner and Hassan for introducing the AIRWAVES Act, because the bill embraces a balanced mix of access models and helps move additional spectrum into innovators’ hands. The bill proposes that the United States repurpose spectrum for licensed and unlicensed uses and recognizes the need for additional high-, mid-, and low-band, spectrum allocated for commercial use. This approach will fuel wireless broadband expansion and provide flexibility for the diverse needs of Internet of Things applications. By putting more spectrum in the pipeline for broadband use, most notably for licensed access to the 3700 to 4200 MHz band and unlicensed access to the 6 GHz band, this bill would advance the commonsense goals of boosting innovation, expanding broadband access, and improving the spectrum-allocation process. For those reasons, the AIRWAVES Act is a welcome, bipartisan step forward.” ITI – Information Technology Industry Council “As we charge full speed ahead into the fifth generation – or 5G – of wireless connectivity, it’s incredibly important for the U.S. to make spectrum available in low-, mid-, and high-band frequencies to meet the demands of consumers,” Jesaitis said. “For that reason, we applaud the introduction of the AIRWAVES Act by Sens. Gardner and Hassan. This bill requires the FCC to look at making spectrum available for licensed and unlicensed use in a number of bands, while setting aggressive timelines for FCC action to ensure US leadership as the world makes the leap to widely deploying 5G.” WiFiForward “We applaud Senators Gardner and Hassan for their efforts to free up additional spectrum for unlicensed use. The introduction of the AIRWAVES Act is a great start and we look forward to working with the Committee to better meet the growing demand for wireless broadband, thus fostering innovation and giving American businesses and entrepreneurs the tools they need to continue to succeed in the internet economy.” Wi-Fi Alliance “Wi-Fi Alliance® welcomes the introduction of the Advancing Innovation and Reinvigorating Widespread Access to Viable Electromagnetic Spectrum Act (AIRWAVES Act) by Senator Gardner and Senator Hassan. Provisions of this bipartisan legislation address the underlying need for additional unlicensed spectrum. The majority of Americans rely on Wi-Fi® as the primary technology for wireless connectivity, and it is imperative to ensure that adequate spectrum is available for Wi-Fi functionality today and in the future. Wi-Fi Alliance is grateful to Senators Gardner and Hassan for recognizing the need for additional unlicensed spectrum and looks forward to progress on this bill.” Broadcom Corporation, Cisco Systems, Hewlett Packard Enterprise: “On behalf of Broadcom Corporation, Cisco Systems, Inc., and Hewlett Packard Enterprise, congratulations on your introduction of the “AIRWAVES Act”. Ensuring there is a future pipeline of spectrum for commercial use is one of the most important activities policymakers can do to keep the US at the forefront of wireless innovation. Your bipartisan legislation recognizes the need for licensed and unlicensed spectrum, and promotes shared use of spectrum bands. This comprehensive approach is both critical and timely for meeting the growing demand of networks in this country. Our companies are particularly appreciative of your effort to expedite a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking at the FCC focused on designating spectrum for unlicensed use in the frequency band between 5925-7125 (“6 GHz”). This spectrum is most valuable to us as it is adjacent to current unlicensed use at 5 GHz, and therefore allows us to easily extend equipment into the 6 GHz band. While we recognize there are incumbents that currently exist in the band, we are confident our technology will prove we can coexist without interfering. We look forward to working with the FCC on realizing the full potential of 6 GHz to the unlicensed industry. Thank you again for your leadership on spectrum policy. We believe opening 6 GHz for unlicensed use is a necessary step in fostering a spectrum ecosystem that will expand existing coverage of networks and increase network capacity for new technologies. The 6 GHz band is our top priority with respect to unlicensed spectrum, and we commend your recognition of this important band in your legislation.” Competitive Carriers Association (CCA) – President and CEO Steven K. Berry: “I commend Senators Gardner and Hassan for introducing the bipartisan AIRWAVES Act. Spectrum is an absolutely critical resource for competitive carriers, and requiring NTIA to identify additional spectrum frequencies for commercial use marks an important step to ensuring consumers can reap the benefits of mobile broadband services. An auction pipeline of new licenses is key to promoting economic growth and invigorating the competitive spirit throughout the industry. Importantly, the AIRWAVES Act includes a rural spectrum funding mechanism, allocating ten percent of the proceeds from each auction for the deployment of mobile broadband in rural areas, in line with Chairman Pai’s Digital Empowerment Agenda. I applaud Senators Gardner and Hassan for recognizing that many rural areas do not have mobile broadband services comparable to their urban counterparts, and for their focus on ensuring no rural area is left behind. CCA supports the AIRWAVES Act and looks forward to continued work to move this legislation forward.” Computer & Communications Industry Association (CCIA) – President & CEO Ed Black “Connectivity is crucial for our economy. To stay competitive in the global race for 5G, we need more spectrum of all types to fill these needs. Other countries like China, Japan, South Korea, and Europe are already addressing spectrum needs for 5G, so we need to accelerate our efforts. While much progress has been made in lower and higher bands, it’s the gap in mid-band that needs to be filled. With the bipartisan Senate bill and the FCC’s NOI, we’re now seeing a path forward on mid-band spectrum that will be crucial to ensuring faster, more reliable networks that will be catalysts for innovation, economic growth, and jobs.” The Wireless Internet Services Providers Association (WISPA) “WISPA thanks Senators Gardner and Hassan for consulting with WISPA and incorporating our experience as the AIRWAVES Act was drafted,” said Jimmy Carr, CEO of All Points Broadband, and Chairman of WISPA’s Legislative Committee. “Although there are aspects of the bill that are inconsistent with WISPA’s preferred approach, overall we believe the bill can have a positive impact on rural Americans. While WISPA believes our coalition’s proposal for the 3700-4200 MHz band will more rapidly connect rural Americans with affordable fixed broadband, we know that Senators Gardner and Hassan are deeply committed to taking substantive action that will help address the challenge of delivering broadband to underserved rural Americans,” Carr continued. “We look forward to working with the senators as the legislation is refined, so that it can have an even greater positive effect for those rural Americans who desperately need access to affordable broadband services in their homes and businesses. We particularly appreciate Senator Gardner’s work to improve this legislation for the benefit of rural Colorado,” said Jeff Kohler, co-founder of Colorado-based Rise Broadband, America’s largest fixed-wireless ISP. “With its rugged terrain, Colorado is a microcosm of why we need smart spectrum rules that encourage, rather than discourage, fixed wireless broadband providers.” AT&T "AT&T congratulates Senators Gardner and Hassan for introducing a unique bill to address the pressing need for spectrum to support next-generation 5G broadband networks. The bill identifies the spectrum bands required to make 5G a reality and provides certainty that this spectrum will be auctioned in time to meet the 5G rollout. The consumer and economic benefits of 5G technologies are tremendous and this legislation will enable the United States to maintain its leadership role in this space. We look forward to working with Senators Gardner and Hassan as this bill moves through Congress." T-Mobile, Tony Russo, VP of Federal Legislative Affairs “Senators Gardner and Hassan should be commended on the introduction of the AIRWAVES (Advancing Innovation and Reinvigorating Widespread Access to Viable Electromagnetic Spectrum) Act. This bill goes a long way toward guaranteeing that there will be a steady pipeline of spectrum that can be auctioned for licensed use, as well as ensuring that companies like T-Mobile can bring innovative 5G services to consumers. We want to thank the senators for all their hard work on this legislation, and we look forward to working with them as this bill moves through the legislative process.” VERIZON "The "AIRWAVES Act" shows a clear, bipartisan understanding by Congress that the nation needs real and achievable timelines to meet the continually increasing demands for spectrum from a growing number of American consumers and businesses. With new, next-gen wireless applications and services emerging daily, it also confirms that our nation's leaders recognize the importance of making a range of spectrum bands available for commercial mobile broadband. We look forward to working with Senators Gardner and Hassan and the full Congress as we collectively look for ways to meet the growing demands for spectrum that will fuel innovation and new opportunities in the wireless communications ecosystem." SPRINT, CEO Marcelo Claure Public Interest: Public Knowledge, Harold Feld, Senior VP “The AIRWAVES Act shows that when members of Congress set aside partisan differences, we can all work together to find innovative solutions to the infrastructure challenges facing our country. This bill strikes an important balance in recognizing that the success of 5G wireless will need both more exclusive use spectrum for gigabit mobile networks, and more shared spectrum for next generation gigabit Wi-Fi. In particular, we applaud Senator Gardner and Senator Hassan for proposing to set aside 10 percent of the revenue from spectrum auctions to create a fund for wireless broadband infrastructure in rural America. This focuses spending directly on needed broadband infrastructure in a competitively neutral manner, without raising taxes or user fees. We strongly support the AIRWAVES Act as the basis for moving forward on spectrum policy in Congress, and urge Senators on both sides of the aisle to support this balanced and innovative approach to providing rural broadband and wireless capacity for 5G.” American Library Association, President, Jim Neal “The American Library Association applauds Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Maggie Hassan (D-NH) on the introduction of the AIRWAVES Act and supports their efforts to increase the amount of unlicensed spectrum available to power libraries’ Wi-Fi networks. Access to Wi-Fi is important to virtually every patron of the nearly 120,000 school, public and higher education libraries in the United States. More spectrum for library Wi-Fi means more public access to the internet for everyone from school children to entrepreneurs, job seekers and scientists. The AIRWAVES Act will mean that millions more people, especially those in rural areas, will benefit from the library programs and services increasingly essential to their and the nation's success in the digital age.” ###
08.03.2017	08.03.17 Gardner, Bennet Announce $12 Million FASTLANE Grant for La Plata County Washington, D.C. – Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Michael Bennet (D-CO) today announced the Department of Transportation (DOT) has awarded La Plata County a $12,312,887 FASTLANE grant to “construct a new 1.7-mile alignment of US 550, connecting with US 160 at the Grandview Interchange. The new alignment will be completed with flatter grades, wider shoulders, a southbound truck climbing lane, and automated anti-icing systems.” This grant is a result of the bipartisan 2015 highway bill, the FAST Act. In 2015, Gardner and Bennet advocated in support of this grant program as an additional tool to meet Colorado’s transportation needs. “In 2015, I worked with members on both sides of the aisle to pass a long-term highway bill which included provisions that will benefit Colorado,” said Gardner. “This grant is a result of our negotiations and is great news for southwest Colorado. It’s also recognition of the need for ensuring our rural communities receive necessary resources. Maintaining and updating Colorado’s infrastructure must be one of our top priorities and I will continue to work in Congress to advance Colorado’s transportation needs.” “The US-550 corridor is a critical transportation link for the San Juan Basin. This grant will help to provide long-awaited improvements to the region’s roads and support its energy, agriculture, and tourism economy,” said Bennet. “We must continue to invest in our nation’s roads and bridges to ensure that we maintain the assets and infrastructure that previous generations have built.” This grant is now subject to a 60 day congressional review period. ###
08.03.2017	08.03.17 Gov. Hickenlooper along with Senators Gardner and Bennet and Congressman Scott Tipton to hold town hall following tour of Gold King Mine DENVER — Thursday, Aug. 3, 2017 — Gov. John Hickenlooper, along with Senators Cory Gardner and Michael Bennet, and Rep. Scott Tipton, will hold a town hall following their visit with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and tour of the Gold King Mine. They, along with representatives from the EPA, will provide an update of their meeting and take questions from attendees. Durango Town Hall WHO: Gov. John Hickenlooper Senators Cory Gardner and Michael Bennet Rep. Scott Tipton Durango Mayor Dick White & La Plata County Commissioner Brad Blake will moderate. WHERE: La Plata County Administration Building Board Room 1101 E. 2nd Ave. Durango, CO 81301 WHEN: Friday, Aug. 4, 2017 2:15 p.m. — 3:00 p.m. Doors open to the public and media at 1:45 p.m. ###
08.02.2017	08.02.17 Gardner Applauds Russia Sanctions Being Signed Into Law Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statement following sanctions against Russia being signed into law by the President on Wednesday: “I commend the President for signing this important legislation, which is a strong response against Russia for their influence campaign during the 2016 election and destabilizing actions around the world,” said Gardner. “Vladimir Putin is a thug and these bipartisan sanctions will hold his government accountable for their nefarious activities.” Also signed into law were sanctions against Iran and North Korea. See Gardner’s statement on the full sanctions package here. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
08.02.2017	08.02.17 Senators Introduce Bipartisan Legislation to Improve Cybersecurity of “Internet-of-Things” (IoT) Devices ~ Bipartisan bill would establish minimum requirements for Internet-connected devices purchased by the federal government ~ Washington, D.C. – Yesterday, U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Mark R. Warner (D-VA), co-chairs of the Senate Cybersecurity Caucus, along with Sens. Ron Wyden (D-WA) and Steve Daines (R-MT) introduced bipartisan legislation to improve the cybersecurity of Internet-connected devices. The Internet of Things (IoT) Cybersecurity Improvement Act of 2017 would require that devices purchased by the U.S. government meet certain minimum security requirements. Under the terms of the bill, vendors who supply the U.S. government with IoT devices would have to ensure that their devices are patchable, do not include hard-coded passwords that can’t be changed, and are free of known security vulnerabilities, among other basic requirements. The bill, drafted in consultation with technology and security experts from institutions such as the Atlantic Council and the Berklett Cybersecurity Project of the Berkman Klein Center for Internet & Society at Harvard University, also promotes security research by encouraging the adoption of coordinated vulnerability disclosure policies by federal contractors and providing legal protections to security researchers abiding by those policies. The Internet-of-Things, the term used to describe the growing network of Internet-connected devices and sensors, is expected to include over 20 billion devices by 2020. While these devices and the data they collect and transmit present enormous benefits to consumers and industry, the relative insecurity of many devices presents enormous challenges. Sometimes shipped with factory-set, hardcoded passwords and oftentimes unable to be updated or patched, IoT devices can represent a weak point in a network’s security, leaving the rest of the network vulnerable to attack. Over the past year, IoT devices have been used by bad actors to launch devastating Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) attacks against particular websites, web-hosting servers, and internet infrastructure providers. “The Internet of Things (IoT) landscape continues to expand, with most experts expecting tens of billions of devices operating on our networks within the next several years,” said Gardner. “As these devices continue to transform our society and add countless new entry points into our networks, we need to make sure they are secure from malicious cyber-attacks. This bipartisan, commonsense legislation will ensure the federal government leads by example and purchases devices that meet basic requirements to prevent hackers from penetrating our government systems without halting the life-changing innovations that continue to develop in the IoT space. As co-chairs of the Senate Cybersecurity Caucus, Senator Warner and I are committed to advancing our nation’s cybersecurity defenses and this marks an important step in that direction.” “While I’m tremendously excited about the innovation and productivity that Internet-of-Things devices will unleash, I have long been concerned that too many Internet-connected devices are being sold without appropriate safeguards and protections in place,” said Warner. “This legislation would establish thorough, yet flexible, guidelines for Federal Government procurements of connected devices. My hope is that this legislation will remedy the obvious market failure that has occurred and encourage device manufacturers to compete on the security of their products.” “I’ve long been making the case for reforms to the outdated and overly broad Computer Fraud and Abuse Act and the Digital Millennium Copyright Act. This bill is a bipartisan, common-sense step in the right direction. This bill is designed to let researchers look for critical vulnerabilities in devices purchased by the government without fear of prosecution or being dragged to court by an irritated company. Enacting this bill would also help stop botnets that take advantage of internet-connected devices that are currently ludicrously easy prey for criminals,” said Wyden. “Information is a form of currency,” Daines stated. “We need to have to proper safeguards in place to ensure that our information is protected while still encouraging innovation.” Specifically, the Internet of Things (IoT) Cybersecurity Improvement Act of 2017 would: · Require vendors of Internet-connected devices purchased by the federal government ensure their devices are patchable, rely on industry standard protocols, do not use hard-coded passwords, and do not contain any known security vulnerabilities. · Direct the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) to develop alternative network-level security requirements for devices with limited data processing and software functionality. · Direct the Department of Homeland Security’s National Protection and Programs Directorate to issue guidelines regarding cybersecurity coordinated vulnerability disclosure policies to be required by contractors providing connected devices to the U.S. Government. · Exempt cybersecurity researchers engaging in good-faith research from liability under the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act and the Digital Millennium Copyright Act when in engaged in research pursuant to adopted coordinated vulnerability disclosure guidelines. · Require each executive agency to inventory all Internet-connected devices in use by the agency. The bill has endorsements from the Atlantic Council, the Berklett Cybersecurity Project at Harvard University’s Berkman Klein Center for Internet & Society, the Center for Democracy and Technology, Mozilla, Cloudflare, Neustar, the Niskanen Center, Symantec, TechFreedom, and VMware. For a full list of endorsements, and to read a one-pager on the bill, please click here. “Internet-aware devices raise deep and novel security issues, with problems that could arise months or years after purchase, or spill over to people who aren't the purchasers,” said Jonathan Zittrain, Co-Founder of Harvard University’s Berkman Klein Center for Internet & Society. “This bill deftly uses the power of the Federal procurement market, rather than direct regulation, to encourage Internet-aware device makers to employ some basic security measures in their products. This will help everyone in the marketplace, including non-governmental purchasers and the vendors themselves, since they'll be encouraged together to take steps to secure their products.”“The proliferation of insecure Internet-connected devices presents an enormous security challenge,” said Bruce Schneier, Fellow and Lecturer at Harvard Kennedy School of Government. “The risks are no longer solely about data; they affect flesh and steel. The market is not going to provide security on its own, because there is no incentive for buyers or sellers to act in anything but their self-interests. I applaud Senator Warner and his cosponsors for nudging the market in the right direction by establishing thorough, yet flexible, security requirements for connected devices purchased by the government. Additionally, I appreciate Senator Warner's recognition of the critical role played by security researchers and the exemptions included in this legislation for good-faith security research.” "We urgently need to start securing the internet of things, and starting with the government's own devices is an important first step,” said Michelle Richardson, Deputy Director of the Freedom, Security and Technology Project, Center for Democracy and Technology. “This legislation will push government devices to meet modern security standards, and ensure that researchers who act in good faith can independently verify the security of those devices. We hope that Congress will consider this proposal soon, and look forward to a discussion about the security of government systems, where the market for Internet of Things devices is headed, and how independent research can contribute." “Cloudflare applauds Senator Warner for his efforts to encourage security research and to use the government procurement process to make the U.S. Government a leader in addressing the risks posed by improperly secured IoT devices. The worldwide internet outages caused last year by devices infected with the Mirai malware highlighted the need for more robust discussions about securing IoT devices. This bill should open an important dialogue on those issues, and Cloudflare looks forward to continuing to work with Senator Warner as the bill moves forward,” said Doug Kramer, General Counsel, Cloudflare Inc. Bill text is available here. ###
08.01.2017	08.01.17 Gardner Statement on Confirmation of Christopher Wray to Lead the FBI Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statement following the confirmation of Christopher Wray to be the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI): “Christopher Wray is a strong choice to lead the FBI and I was proud to support his confirmation,” said Gardner. “At a time when we face increased threats at home and abroad, the FBI serves a fundamental role in keeping Americans safe. Wray is an experienced investigator who will set a tremendous example for the thousands of men and women at the FBI who work every day to protect our country.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
08.01.2017	08.01.17 Gardner Demands Answers Regarding Wait Times at Colorado VA Facilities Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today sent a letter to Veterans Affairs (VA) Secretary David Shulkin regarding the wait times for veterans at Colorado VA facilities. “Our veterans deserve the best possible care and anything less is simply unacceptable,” said Gardner. “During his confirmation process, Secretary Shulkin committed to instituting significant reforms at the VA to ensure patients receive timely access to care. If a Colorado veteran is unable to see a doctor in a reasonable amount of time because of a VA backlog, than the system has failed that veteran. I will work with Secretary Shulkin to make sure Colorado’s veterans receive the proper care.” The letter reads in full: Dear Secretary Shulkin: I write urging you to prioritize your attention to the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) health crisis in Colorado, and provide the steps that you will take to fix the problem. On July 27, 2017, the Denver Post reported that medical appointment wait times for veterans in Colorado are ranked as some of the worst throughout the country. According to the report, 13.5 percent of all appointments scheduled in the Eastern Colorado Healthcare System averaged longer than 30 days. This is unacceptable. The Veterans Access, Choice and Accountability Act of 2014 was implemented to fix the shameful wait times for veterans. However, this report indicates that the VA has done very little to improve the situation in Colorado. Timely access to doctors for our veterans is essential, and anything less is an incredible disservice to the men and women who have served our nation. They deserve better. I understand that this crisis did not occur on your watch, but it needs to be addressed immediately. In a timely manner, please address why this is happening in Colorado, and the steps that the VA will take to fix this problem. Thank you for your time, and I look forward to your response. Sincerely, ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
08.01.2017	08.01.17 Gardner, Hassan Introduce Bipartisan Legislation to Support Wireless Innovation and Close the Urban-Rural Divide Washington, D.C. – Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Maggie Hassan (D-NH) today introduced the Advancing Innovation and Reinvigorating Widespread Access to Viable Electromagnetic Spectrum (AIRWAVES) Act, which will encourage the federal government to continue to free up spectrum for commercial licensed and unlicensed use and leverage the success of spectrum auctions to help close the urban-rural divide. First, the legislation establishes a spectrum pipeline that will provide more capacity for wireless providers to improve existing service and expand to new areas. The AIRWAVES Act aims to motivate industry and federal agencies to find ways to better utilize spectrum and avoid a spectrum crunch and lay the groundwork for 5G technologies. Second, this legislation requires 10 percent of all of the proceeds from spectrum auctions in the bill to go directly to wireless broadband infrastructure buildout in unserved and underserved areas throughout rural communities across the country. Spectrum is the invisible network of airwaves over which signals and data travel. Cell phones, Wi-Fi networks, satellites, television, and more all rely on readily available spectrum to operate, but it is a finite resource. Gardner and Hassan’s legislation aims to make more efficient use of spectrum and encourages the federal government to auction off more spectrum in a timely manner, as well as free up additional unlicensed spectrum to support wireless devices like tablets, as well as Wi-Fi and Bluetooth technologies. Over the past several years, the federal government has auctioned off billions of dollars of spectrum that the wireless industry has used to free up more space on the airwaves for their customers’ mobile phones, and unlicensed spectrum also contributes billions annually to the economy. “The AIRWAVES Act is bipartisan, commonsense legislation that frees up more spectrum for commercial licensed and unlicensed users and will help bridge the divide between urban and rural Colorado,” said Gardner. “This legislation offers innovative ways to avoid a spectrum crunch, pave the way for 5G service, and provide critical resources to rural America to continue rural buildout in unserved and underserved areas throughout Colorado and the country. American companies are at the forefront of technological innovation and making more spectrum available will allow them to continue to develop and deploy cutting-edge technologies. I look forward to working with members on both sides of the aisle to advance this legislation that will benefit all four corners of Colorado.” “So many of the wireless services we depend on – from telehealth to wireless phone service to Wi-Fi – require the use of spectrum, which is a finite resource," said Hassan. "The bipartisan AIRWAVES Act will help ensure that there is an adequate supply of spectrum for licensed and unlicensed use, which in turn will enhance wireless services to our people, stimulate our economy, and spur innovation. Our bill also makes meaningful investments in rural broadband infrastructure in places like New Hampshire, helping to strengthen local economies and provide our businesses and hard-working Americans in rural areas with the resources they need to get ahead and stay ahead.” ###
07.28.2017	07.28.17 Gardner Statement on North Korea Missile Launch Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statement following reports that North Korea launched another ballistic missile: “As North Korea’s Kim Jong Un continues to defy international sanctions and threaten the United States and our allies with another ballistic missile launch, our response is clear: we will not tolerate this belligerent behavior,” said Gardner. “I have introduced bipartisan legislation that imposes an economic embargo on North Korea and punishes the rouge regime’s enablers. China is responsible for ninety percent of trade with North Korea and my legislation targets entities involved in these activities. I will continue to urge the Administration to fully implement a maximum pressure approach and take meaningful steps to stop the madman in Pyongyang.” As Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia and the Pacific, Gardner has been the leader in the Senate in deterring North Korea’s heinous regime. Gardner authored the North Korea Sanctions Policy and Enhancement Act signed into law by President Obama in February of 2016. The legislation marked the first time Congress imposed stand-alone mandatory sanctions on North Korea. Earlier this month, Gardner introduced bipartisan legislation that would ban any entity that does business with North Korea or its enablers from using the United States financial system and to impose U.S. sanctions on all those participating in North Korean labor trafficking abuses. Senator Gardner has applauded recent steps taken by the Trump Administration to ramp up pressure on North Korea, including for the first time designating a Chinese financial institution doing business with North Korea. Ninety percent of North Korea’s trade is conducted with China and Beijing must use its economic leverage to stop North Korea’s illicit and dangerous behavior. Recent reports indicate that China’s trade with North Korea has significantly increased instead. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
07.27.2017	07.27.17 Gardner Votes to Sanction Russia, Iran, and North Korea Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statement following his vote to sanction Russia, Iran, and North Korea. “Today, Republicans and Democrats came together to take action against Russia, Iran, and North Korea,” said Gardner. “Russia must be held accountable for their influence campaign during the 2016 election and this legislation will do just that. The United States Congress sent a strong message to Vladimir Putin: the United States will not stand idly by as you undermine democracy and human rights around the globe. Iran and North Korea continue to defy international sanctions and their belligerence must also have consequences. It is important we enacted these sanctions todayand showed the world the United States will not stand by as our adversaries threaten us and our allies. “While this legislation is a step in the right direction to stop the madman in Pyongyang, more needs to be done. I have introduced bipartisan legislation that imposes an economic embargo on North Korea and punishes the regime’s enablers, most notably China. I will continue to work with my colleagues in the Senate to see this legislation become law and apply the necessary pressure to North Korea and its enablers." ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
07.27.2017	07.27.17 Gardner Meets with FBI Director Nominee Christopher Wray Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statement following his meeting with FBI Director nominee Christopher Wray. “I enjoyed meeting Christopher Wray and am confident in his ability to lead the FBI,” said Gardner. “He is a man of great integrity and has the requisite experience and respect from rank and file FBI agents to get the job done. The men and women at the FBI devote their lives to protecting our country from foreign and domestic threats, including Russia’s influence campaign during the 2016 election and North Korea’s cyber-attacks on U.S. companies. I believe Christopher Wray will be an asset to them as they continue their duty to our country.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
07.26.2017	07.26.17 ICYMI: Gardner Chairs Hearing Focused on North Korea Policy Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity, chaired a hearing on Tuesday titled, “Assessing the Maximum Pressure and Engagement Policy Toward North Korea.”Gardner recently introduced legislation to impose an embargo against North Korea and this hearing was intended to examine progress of the Trump Administration’s new policy toward North Korea and options to peacefully de-nuclearize the North Korean regime. (Watch a video of Gardner’s opening remarks by clicking here or on the image above.) Remarks as prepared for delivery: Welcome all to today’s hearing. North Korea has emerged as the most urgent national security challenge for the U.S. states and our allies in East Asia. Secretary Mattis has said North Korea is “the most urgent and dangerous threat to peace and security.” Admiral Gortney, previously the Commander of U.S. Northern Command, stated that the Korean Peninsula is at its most unstable point since 1953, when the Armistice was signed. Last year alone, North Korea conducted 2 nuclear tests and a staggering 24 ballistic missile launches. This year, Pyongyang already launched 17 missiles, including the July 4 successful test of an intercontinental ballistic missile that is reportedly capable of reaching Alaska and Hawaii. President Trump has said that the United States will not allow that to happen and I am encouraged by the President’s resolve. Patience is not an option with the U.S. homeland in the nuclear shadow of Kim Jong Un. Our North Korea policy of decades of bipartisan failure must turn to one of immediate bipartisan success - with pressure and global cooperation, resulting in the peaceful denuclearization of the regime. As Vice-President Pence stated during his recent visit to South Korea: “Since 1992, the United States and our allies have stood together for a denuclearized Korean Peninsula. We hope to achieve this objective through peaceable means. But all options are on the table.” But time is not on our side. I believe U.S. policy toward North Korea should be straightforward: the United States will deploy every economic, diplomatic, and if necessary, military tools at our disposal to deter Pyongyang and to protect our allies. However, the road to peacefully stopping Pyongyang undoubtedly lies through Beijing. China is the only country that holds the diplomatic and economic leverage necessary to put the real squeeze on the North Korean regime. According to the South Korean state trade agency, China accounts for 90 percent of North Korea's trade, including virtually all of North Korea's exports. From 2000-2015, trade volume between the two nations has climbed more than tenfold, rising from $488 million in 2000 to $5.4 billion in 2015.” Beijing is the reason the regime acts so bold and with relatively few consequences. China must now move beyond an articulation of concern and lay out a transparent path of focused pressure to denuclearize North Korea. A global power that borders this regime cannot simply throw up its hands and absolve themselves of responsibility. The Administration is right to pursue a policy of “maximum pressure” toward North Korea and we have a robust toolbox already available to ramp up the sanctions track -- a track that has hardly been utilized to its fullest extent. Last Congress, I led the North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act (NKSPEA), which passed the Senate by a vote of 96-0. This legislation was the first standalone legislation in Congress regarding North Korea to impose mandatory sanctions on the regime’s proliferation activities, human rights violations, and malicious cyber behavior. According to recent analysis from the Foundation for the Defense of Democracies: “North Korea sanctions have more than doubled since the NKSPEA came into effect on February 18, 2016. Prior to that date, North Korea ranked eighth, behind Ukraine/Russia, Iran, Iraq, the Balkans, Syria, Sudan, and Zimbabwe.” Even with the 130% sanctions increase after NKPEA, North Korea is today still only the fifth most-sanctioned country by the United States. So while Congress has clearly moved the Obama Administration from inaction to some action, the Trump Administration has the opportunity to use these authorities to build maximum leverage with not only Pyongyang, but also with Beijing. I am encouraged by the actions the Administration took last month to finally designate a Chinese financial institution. But this should just be the beginning. The Administration, with Congressional support, should now make clear to any entity doing business with North Korea that they will not be able to do business with the United States or have access to the U.S. financial system. A report released last month by an independent organization, C4ADS, identified over 5,000 Chinese companies that are doing business with North Korea. These Chinese companies are responsible for $7 billion in trade with North Korea. Moreover, the C4ADS report found that only 10 of these companies control 30% of Chinese exports to North Korea in 2016. One of these companies alone controlled nearly 10% of total imports from North Korea. Some of these companies were found to have satellite offices in the United States. According to recent disclosures, from 2009 to 2017, North Korea used Chinese banks to process at least $2.2 billion in transactions through the U.S. financial system. This should all stop now. United States should not be afraid of a diplomatic confrontation with Beijing for simply enforcing existing U.S. law. In fact, it should be more afraid of Congress if it does not. As for any prospect of engagement, we should continue to let Beijing know in no uncertain terms that the United States will not negotiate with Pyongyang at the expense of U.S. national security and that of our allies. Instead of working with the United States and the international community to disarm the madman in Pyongyang, Beijing has called on the United States and South Korea to halt our military exercises, in exchange for vague promises of North Korea suspending its missile and nuclear activities. That was a bad deal, and the Trump Administration rightly rejected it. Moreover, before any talks in any format, the United States and our partners must demand that Pyongyang first meet the denuclearization commitments it had already agreed to in the past – and subsequently chose to brazenly violate. President Trump should continue to impress with President Xi that a denuclearized Korean Peninsula is in both nations’ fundamental long-term interests. As Admiral Harry Harris rightly noted recently: “We want to bring Kim Jong Un to his senses, not to his knees.” But to achieve this goal, Beijing must be made to choose whether it wants to work with the United States as a responsible global leader to stop Pyongyang – or bear consequences of keeping him in power. Now I will turn it over to our Ranking Member, Senator Markey. ?###? Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
07.25.2017	07.25.17 Gardner Votes to Allow Debate on Fixing our Broken Healthcare System Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statement after voting for the motion to proceed to open debate on the Senate floor to find a way to fix our broken healthcare system. Today’s vote was not on a final measure to repeal Obamacare, but to continue to debate and make changes to legislation to repeal Obamacare. “Under Obamacare, Coloradans have had to pay for double digit premium increases year after year and the 27 percent average increase for premiums on the individual market next year is only more of the same. While 500,000 Coloradans have had their plans cancelled, 145,000 Coloradans were forced to pay a penalty under Obamacare instead of purchasing insurance because their options have become so limited and unaffordable. In every healthcare meeting with Coloradans, we discuss the problems of Obamacare and how the status quo is simply unacceptable. “I voted to allow debate today because we can no longer subject Coloradans to a failing healthcare system without working toward solutions, and today’s vote will allow that debate to continue. We can now offer amendments in an open setting to fix our nation’s healthcare system and bring relief to the American people.” What is a Motion to Proceed? A motion to proceed is a vote to allow debate to begin on a specific piece of legislation. For legislation to pass the Senate it still requires final passage. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
07.24.2017	07.24.17 Gardner Votes To Confirm Colorado’s David Bernhardt as Deputy Secretary of the Interior Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the below statement following the confirmation of Colorado-native David Bernhardt to become Deputy Secretary of the Interior. Last week, Gardner spoke on the Senate floor about Bernhardt’s qualifications and urged his colleagues on both sides of the aisle to support his nomination. Gardner introduced Bernhardt at his confirmation hearing last month, and Bernhardt has expressed support for Gardner’s proposal to move the Bureau of Land Management’s headquarters West. Bernhardt’s nomination is supported by several stakeholder groups in Colorado and across the country, including the Colorado River District, Colorado Water Congress, Southern Ute Indian Tribe, Outdoor Recreation Industry Roundtable, and the Theodore Roosevelt Conservation Partnership. “David Bernhardt is a native Coloradan from the Western slope who has a deep understanding of Western land issues and will do what is right for the American people when it comes to our public lands,” said Gardner. “I’ve known David for many years and know he is the right man for the job. His command of public policy and experience working in the Interior Department will be an enormous asset to Secretary Zinke and I look forward to working with David on issues important to Colorado as he assumes his new role.” ?###? Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
07.24.2017	07.24.17 Gardner, Cotton Introduce Taiwan Security Act Washington, D.C. – Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Tom Cotton (R-AR) will today introduce the Taiwan Security Act (TSA), legislation that would enhance the U.S.-Taiwan relationship and bolster Taiwan’s participation in the international community. “This legislation takes a significant step forward to demonstrate that the United States will take all necessary steps to support our ally and friend, Taiwan,” said Gardner. “The Taiwan Security Act ensures our government will enhance mutually-beneficial security, diplomatic, and economic ties with Taipei, which will promote Taiwan’s international standing and help ensure peace and stability in the region.” “For too long, China’s escalating pressure on Taiwan has faced no serious response from the United States. This legislation would send an overdue message to China to halt its aggressive behavior. Strong security, economic, and cultural ties with Taipei have always advanced U.S. interests in Asia, and created conditions for Taiwan’s free-market democracy to flourish. Enhancing those ties now will ensure that China’s petulant actions will not disturb the peace across the Taiwan Strait,” said Cotton. The Taiwan Security Act will enhance the U.S.-Taiwan relationship in the following ways: Mandates senior defense and diplomatic exchanges between the United States and Taiwan at the flag officer and assistant secretary level or above. Reestablishes an annual strategic dialogue between the United States and Taiwan on arms sales in order to ensure the regular transfer of defense articles. Directs the U.S. secretary of defense to invite Taiwanese forces to participate in the 2018 Rim of the Pacific (RIMPAC) naval exercise and a 2018 edition of the Red Flag air-to-air combat exercise. Requires U.S Navy port visits to Taiwan and vice versa. Expresses Congressional support for Taiwan’s plan to spend 3% of GDP on defense and its ongoing efforts to suspend all economic ties with North Korea. ###
07.21.2017	07.21.17 Gardner Announces No Changes to Canyons of the Ancients National Monument Washington, D.C. – Today, Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Secretary of the Interior Ryan Zinke announced Colorado’s Canyons of the Ancients National Monument is no longer under review and that Secretary Zinke will recommend that no modifications be made to the monument. The monuments were under review in accordance with President Donald J. Trump’s April 26, 2017, executive order. The recommendation comes after review of public comments and conversations with stakeholders. “This is great news for Colorado and I’m thrilled the Department of the Interior listened to Coloradans and will make no changes to Canyons of the Ancients National Monument’s designation,” said Senator Gardner. “I repeatedly raised the issue with Secretary Zinke and highlighted the fact that Coloradans cherish our state’s public lands and any review of Canyons of the Ancients should result in no changes to the monument’s designation. The Secretary has been a great partner throughout his tenure and understands Western issues better than most. I’m proud to have worked with him on this and look forward to continuing to collaborate on issues important to Colorado in the future.” “When the President and I began the monument review process we absolutely realized that not all monuments are the same and that not all monuments would require modifications. Today I’m announcing that Canyon of the Ancients National Monument review process has concluded and I am recommending no changes be made to the monument,” said Secretary Zinke. “Canyons of the Ancients is gorgeous land, but its monument status as the most high-density Native American archaeological sites in the Nation is clear. The history at this site spans thousands of years, and the federal protection of these objects and history ?will help us preserve this site for a thousand more years." In May, Gardner and Congressman Scott Tipton (CO-3) sent a letter to Secretary Zinke requesting “any review of Canyons should conclude that no changes to the designation are necessary.” The following month, during an Energy and Natural Resources Committee hearing, Gardner received assurances from Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke that Canyons of the Ancients National Monument is not currently on the Department’s priority review list. Gardner has been a strong advocate for protecting Colorado’s public lands, and recently received the Outdoor Industry Association’s 2017 Friend of the Outdoor Industry Award. ?###? Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
07.20.2017	07.20.17 Gardner, Bennet Announce $6.5 Million FAA Grants for Colorado Springs and Pueblo Airports Washington, D.C. – Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Michael Bennet (D-CO) today announced Colorado Springs Municipal Airport will receive a $4.5 million grant and Pueblo Memorial Airport will receive a $2,057,620 grant from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to rehabilitate taxiway and runway lighting. “These federal grants will help two of Colorado’s largest airports ensure they can continue to safely serve the thousands of Coloradans that rely on them every day,” said Gardner. “I’m pleased the FAA awarded this money to Colorado and I’ll continue to work with our local partners to see our state’s airports expand and serve even more Coloradans in the future.” “It’s critical that our regional airports are able to complete their safety projects,” said Bennet. “These grants will enable the Colorado Springs and Pueblo airports to maintain their infrastructure as they continue to serve our communities.” ###
07.19.2017	07.19.17 Senator Gardner Statement on Senator John McCain Washington, D.C. — Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the following statement regarding Senator John McCain: “Not only is John McCain an American hero but he is also an amazing friend, father, husband, and son. I will be thinking of him every day as he fights this latest battle, and I look forward to seeing him soon in a place where he has done tremendous things for his country and his constituents – the United States Senate." ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
07.19.2017	07.19.17 Gardner, Bennet, Daines, Tester, Wyden, Merkley Introduce Bill to Protect Water Rights for Hemp Farmers Washington, D.C. - U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO), Michael Bennet (D-CO), Steve Daines (R-MT), Jon Tester (D-MT), Ron Wyden (D-OR) and Jeff Merkley (D-OR) today introduced bipartisan legislation to ensure farmers across the West can use the water they own through private water rights to grow industrial hemp in states where it is legal. A pilot program created by the 2014 Farm Bill granted permission to state Departments of Agriculture to license farmers to grow industrial hemp. The Bureau of Reclamation, however, prohibits the use of federally-controlled water for growing industrial hemp. These conflicting policies create confusion for farmers who grow, or wish to grow, industrial hemp using water from federal reservoirs. The Industrial Hemp Water Rights Act would clarify federal policy, ensuring owners of water rights can use their water, even if it passes through federal facilities, to cultivate industrial hemp. "Colorado's industrial hemp farmers should not be restricted by over-burdensome federal regulations that don't respect Colorado's water laws," Gardner said. "This bipartisan legislation recognizes our farmers' right to access Colorado water and makes sure the federal government cannot interfere with our their operations. Coloradans know how best to manage our state's water and it is time for the federal government to get out of the way and allow Colorado's farming operations to succeed." "This bipartisan legislation provided needed clarity for farmers in Colorado who want to grow industrial hemp legally," Bennet said. "This is a necessary measure to fix conflicting federal policies that are slowing the implementation of the Farm Bill pilot program and stifling new business opportunities in rural Colorado. At the very least, Colorado's farmers deserve a clear path to boost growth in our agriculture economy." "Private landowners should be able to use their water to grow industrial hemp, regardless of whether the water passed through federal water projects," Daines said. "Washington, D.C. bureaucrats shouldn't be able to restrict access to water for purposes that are allowed under state law." "As a farmer, I know how important it is that we give our nation's agricultural producers the flexibility they need to thrive," Tester said. "This bill makes responsible changes so farmers can access water, grow their operations, and conduct meaningful research that expands economic opportunities for families and businesses across America." "As I've said before, the federal ban on industrial hemp is not anti-drug, it's anti-farmer," Wyden said. "This bill ensures farmers and researchers in states like Oregon that have legalized industrial hemp can move forward with their hemp pilot projects. I'm continuing to work with my colleagues to lift the ban on hemp to allow American farmers to grow hemp on United States soil and realize the vast opportunities industrial hemp farming has to offer. "Industrial hemp research and farming have opened up doors for farmers in Oregon and across the country," Merkley said. "Outdated policies should not stand in the way of our farmers growing small businesses and agriculture across the U.S." Stakeholders and elected officials throughout Colorado support this legislation. "In this arid climate, a dependable water supply is a necessary resource for agricultural producers of any type," Colorado's Commissioner of Agriculture Don Brown said. "This bill will provide reassurances that hemp farmers can continue to develop this growing industry to meet emerging market demands." "The bill will remove some of the ambiguity toward industrial hemp becoming a standalone commodity and crop that can be an integral part of diversifying the rural economy,"Executive Director of San Luis Valley Development Resources Group & Council of Governments Kevin Wilkins said. "Opportunities to further explore and validate the anecdotal, soil health, agronomic and water conversation properties of the plant may be advanced by removal of this federal barrier." "The proposed legislation is a critical step forward in opening the opportunity for local farmers to grow industrial hemp," General Manager of Dolores Water Conservancy District Michael Preston said. "The protections outlined in the bill are important to our farming communities, as many Reclamation Reservoirs store and supply irrigation water in Western Colorado. Additionally, there is strong interest locally in being able to test the many commercial opportunities associated with industrial hemp production. We are particularly excited to see how hemp plays a role in the agricultural market place. Local farmers are always looking for viable crop alternatives, and the fact that hemp can be grown with relatively low water use makes it even more attractive." "Thank you Senator Michael Bennet for your leadership in the introduction of legislation to prohibit the Bureau of Reclamation from curtailing the use of water that has been through a BOR facility," Colorado State Senator Don Coram said. "Validating a law passed by the State of Colorado to insure farmers engaged in hemp production is vital to the growth of this burgeoning industry. Hemp could very well be the cash crop that allows farmers to be profitable and continue the family farm to the next generation. Colorado has been at the pinnacle of leading the nation in the effort to establish hemp production. Any effort to assist farmers by addressing the water issue is vital to our success." ###
07.18.2017	07.18.17 Gardner Gives Keynote Address At Seventh Annual CSIS South China Sea Conference Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity, today gave the keynote address to the Seventh Annual Center for Strategic & International Studies (CSIS) South China Sea Conference. He laid out a vision for U.S. leadership in the Indo-Pacific region through his legislation, the Asia Reassurance Initiative Act (ARIA). Click here to watch Gardner’s remarks. Remarks as prepared for delivery: Thank you to CSIS for hosting me here today and thank you Mike, for that kind introduction. The theme of this conference today, the South China Sea, has emerged as one of the most vexing national security challenges for the United States and the region. It is a test of international law, of U.S. leadership, and U.S. commitment to a region of the world where other Asia nations cannot afford the region’s national security, economic security and foreign policy to become a utility-like monopoly of China. I commend the CSIS and especially your terrific Asia Maritime Transparency Initiative for providing timely analysis and intellectual leadership to shed light on this crisis. And of course, I thank CSIS for partnering with a great Colorado company, Digital Globe, to provide the public with those stunning commercial satellite images of Chinese activities. We are used to standing on top of our mountains and looking down on the valley - now we are standing in the cosmos and looking down even further thanks to private sector innovation. What is happening in the South China Sea today will have serious security and economic implications for the entire world– but it is especially important to examine what these developments augur for American global leadership and China’s so-called “peaceful rise”. Renewing American leadership in the Asia-Pacific is thus the theme of my address to you today. This topic is especially timely as President Trump approaches six months office and we are seeing the emergence of this Administration’s foreign policy, and as the President and his Administration’s vision on Asia is becoming more apparent as well. The first foreign trip by Defense Secretary Jim Mattis was to our treaty allies South Korea and Japan. Vice-President Pence has likewise completed a successful “Asia Reassurance Tour” to Japan, South Korea, Australia, and Indonesia. President Trump announced he plans to attend both the U.S.-ASEAN summit and the East Asia summit in the Philippines and APEC summit in Vietnam. And from my visits to the region, this is a very important commitment. This unequivocal reaffirmation of U.S. commitment to our allies and this region by this Administration have been welcome news. But showing up, important as that is, will not be enough to reclaim America’s leadership role in this region and to reassure our jittery allies after years of neglect. As General Dwight Eisenhower once observed: “Neither a wise man nor a brave man lies down on the tracks of history to wait for the train of the future to run over him.” That train is fast approaching and lying down is not an option. Today, I will address what I believe should be the Trump Administration’s most urgent priorities in Asia and to also announce an initiative that I am leading in Congress to strengthen our policies. The most urgent challenge for U.S. policy in the region is the coming nuclear crisis on the Korean peninsula. Secretary Mattis has said North Korea is “the most urgent and dangerous threat to peace and security.” Admiral Gortney, then the Commander of U.S. Northern Command, stated that the Korean Peninsula is at its most unstable point since 1953, when the Armistice was signed. Our North Korea policy of bipartisan failure must turn to one of bipartisan success - with pressure and global cooperation, resulting in the peaceful denuclearization of the regime. Last year alone, North Korea conducted 2 nuclear tests and a staggering 24 ballistic missile launches. This year, Pyongyang already launched 17 missiles, including the July 4 successful test of an intercontinental ballistic missile that is reportedly capable of reaching Alaska and Hawaii. Patience is not an option with the U.S. homeland in the nuclear shadow of Kim Jong Un. Kim Jong Un is committed to developing his nuclear and missile program with one goal in mind: to have a reliable capability to deliver a nuclear warhead to Seoul, Tokyo, and most importantly, to the United States homeland. President Trump has said that the United States will not allow that to happen and I am encouraged by the President’s resolve. But time is not on our side. I believe U.S. policy toward North Korea should be straightforward: the United States will deploy every economic, diplomatic, and if necessary, military tools at our disposal to deter Pyongyang and to protect our allies. As Vice-President Pence stated during his visit to South Korea: “Since 1992, the United States and our allies have stood together for a denuclearized Korean Peninsula. We hope to achieve this objective through peaceable means. But all options are on the table.” The road to peacefully stopping Pyongyang undoubtedly lies through Beijing. China is the only country that holds the diplomatic and economic leverage necessary to put the real squeeze on the North Korean regime. Beijing is the reason the regime acts so bold and with relatively few consequences. China must now move beyond an articulation of concern and lay out a transparent path of focused pressure to denuclearize North Korea. A global power that borders this regime cannot simply throw up its hands and absolve themselves of responsibility. The Administration is right to pursue a policy of “maximum pressure” toward North Korea and we have a robust toolbox already available to ramp up the sanctions track -- a track that has hardly been utilized to its fullest extent. Last Congress, I led the North Korea Policy and Sanctions Enhancement Act, which passed the Senate by a vote of 96-0. This legislation was the first standalone legislation in Congress regarding North Korea to impose mandatory sanctions on the regime’s proliferation activities, human rights violations, and malicious cyber behavior. The Administration must fully enforce this legislation, including imposing secondary sanctions on any Chinese entities that are aiding Pyongyang. I am encouraged by the actions the Administration took two weeks ago to designate a number of Chinese entities, including a Chinese financial institution. But this should just be the beginning. The Administration, with Congressional support, should now make clear to any entity doing business with North Korea that they will not be able to do business with the United States. In addition, we must pressure China to faithfully implement all U.N. Security Council resolutions with regard to North Korea, particularly Resolutions 2270 and 2321 negotiated last year. Despite the Trump Administration’s earnest effort to induce China to action, China’s response has been lacking so far. Instead of anticipated reductions in trade, news reports have indicated that trade between China and North Korea has actually increased instead by nearly 40%. China continues being complicit in the Pyongyang’s labor abuses and malicious cyber activities. Instead of putting long overdue economic pressure on North Korea, China has engaged in a shameful economic sanctions campaign against Seoul over the deployment of the THAAD system that has cost the South Korean economy an estimated $7 billion. THAAD is a defensive system that in no way threatens China – and Beijing knows it. China has decided to bully the victims of a rogue nuclear nation, instead of a full embrace of an effort to disarm the culprits. Instead of working with the United States and the international community to disarm the madman in Pyongyang, Beijing has instead called on the United States and South Korea to halt our military exercises, in exchange for vague promises of North Korea suspending its missile and nuclear activities. That was a bad deal, and the Trump Administration rightly rejected it. We should continue to let Beijing know in no uncertain terms that the United States will not negotiate with Pyongyang at the expense of U.S. national security and that of our allies. Moreover, before any talks, we must demand that Pyongyang first meet the denuclearization commitments it had already agreed to – and subsequently chose to brazenly violate. Most importantly, President Trump should continue to indicate to President Xi that a denuclearized Korean Peninsula is in both nations’ fundamental long-term interests. As Admiral Harry Harris rightly noted recently: “We want to bring Kim Jong Un to his senses, not to his knees.” But to achieve this goal, Beijing must be made to choose whether it wants to work with the United States as a responsible leader to stop Pyongyang – or bear consequences of keeping him in power. Another looming crisis in the region is maritime security, including the escalation of tensions in the South China Seas. China’s recent destabilizing actions in the East China Sea and South China Sea are contrary to international law, pose an increased risk of future conflict, and necessitate a strong U.S. and regional response. Their actions seem at odds with their words. China has dramatically expanded its land reclamation activities in the South China Sea, and clear militarization. Since 2013, according to the Department of Defense, China has reclaimed over 3,200 acres of artificial features in the South China Sea. On July 12, 2016, an international tribunal in The Hague ruled that China violated the sovereignty of the Philippines with regard to maritime disputes between the two nations. As Admiral Harris stated during his testimony to the Senate Armed Services Committee on May 1, 2017: “Despite subsequent Chinese assurances at the highest levels that they would not militarize these bases, today, they have these facilities that support long-range weapons emplacements, fighter aircraft hangars, radar towers and barracks for their troops. China's militarization of the South China Sea is real.” The United States must have consistent and assertive diplomatic engagement with China to reinforce that these rogue activities fall outside of accepted international norms. Global engagement is necessary as well -- nations far and wide should be voicing and reinforcing their disapproval. If the South China Sea crisis is not resolved, what is the next step? Where is the next South China Sea? The United States must help other nations prepare for and rise to the challenge of not only this breach of international law, but for the next breach, and make sure they have the tools necessary to counter such a violation. The U.S. defense posture in this region should remain exactly what Secretary of Defense Ash Carter said the Shangri-La Dialogue in Singapore on May 30, 2015: “The United States will fly, sail, and operate wherever international law allows, as U.S. forces do all over the world. America, alongside its allies and partners in the regional architecture, will not be deterred from exercising these rights — the rights of all nations.” A consistent, deliberate and assertive policy to do just that, is imperative. We should continue to engage our allies, such as Japan and Australia, or the United Kingdom, to gauge possibilities of conducting joint freedom of navigation patrols in the South China Sea. While we must seek a peaceful resolution through a negotiation of regional Code of Conduct for the South China Sea, any such negotiation must start with the Hague ruling, which invalidated the so-called “nine-dash line.” Ultimately, the South China Sea crisis is a long-term test of American leadership and resolve to deter Beijing’s hegemony. The Trump Administration and Congress need to take urgent steps now to rebuild our military, so we can enhance our defense posture in the region. We need to urgently work with our regional allies, such as the Philippines, to enhance their maritime domain awareness capabilities. China must know that the United States and our partners are united in deterring aggression and enforcing enforce international law. The third pressing security challenge for the Trump Administration is the rising tide of Islamic extremism in Southeast Asia. As evident from the recent events in Mindanao, ISIS has established a firm foothold in the Philippines – and this cancer is spreading throughout Southeast Asia. According to experts, more than 60 groups in the region have now pledged allegiance to ISIS. As the United States and our allies are succeeding in dislodging ISIS from its traditional footholds in the Middle East, Southeast Asia is becoming the new home to radical Islamic groups. Our policy should be to significantly increase military, intelligence, and counterterrorism cooperation with the governments of the region to urgently combat this threat. Throughout my travels to the region, I heard a tremendous amount of concern from top leaders that U.S. leadership in this critical part of the world is waning. When U.S. leadership wanes, or even the perception of U.S. leadership is waning, it undoubtedly empowers bad actors and constrains the political space for many nations to make choices that comport with U.S. values and interests. As nations look for a balance to China, an absent U.S. means no lifeline for a rules-based alternative. The Trump Administration is inheriting a flawed “Asia rebalance” policy from the previous administration, which was right in rhetoric, but ultimately came up short on meaningful actions. U.S. power in the Asia-Pacific over the last century empowered nations in this region to peacefully prosper, secured by the U.S-led liberal world order. That is now changing. As is evident from its actions with regard to North Korea and armed coercion in the South China Sea, China has little intention to follow established international norms when they conflict with Beijing’s perceived self-interest. This stark fact has led many nations in the region to reconsider the meaning of what Greek philosopher Thucydides observed long ago: “The strong do what they can, while the weak suffer what they must.” The new Administration, working with Congress, now has an opportunity to shape a new U.S. policy toward the Asia-Pacific that changes this dangerous dynamic. This is why I am pursuing legislation called the Asia Reassurance Initiative Act (ARIA), a new approach that will put American interests first by reassuring our allies, deterring our adversaries, and securing U.S. leadership in the region for future generations. To inform this legislation, I have put together a series of hearings in my Senate Foreign Relations subcommittee to shine a bright light on the importance of this region to U.S. economic and national security interests. At our first hearing on March 29th, we focused on the growing security challenges I mentioned today, including North Korea, South China Sea, and terrorism in Southeast Asia. At that hearing, Randy Forbes, former Congressman from Virginia and chair of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Seapower and Projection Forces, observed the following: “In the coming decades, this is the region where the largest armies in the world will camp. This is the region where the most powerful navies in the world will gather. This is the region where over one-half of the world’s commerce will take place and two thirds will travel. This is the region where a maritime superhighway linking the Indian Subcontinent, Southeast Asia, Australia, Northeast Asia, and the United States begins. This is the region where two superpowers will compete to determine which world order will prevail. This is the region where the seeds of conflict that could most engulf the world will probably be planted.” We agreed at that hearing that we must strengthen U.S. defense posture and increase engagement with our allies to counter these threats. At our second hearing on May 24th, we focused on the importance of U.S. economic leadership in Asia. At that hearing, Tami Overby, Senior Vice President for Asia at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, observed the following: “The Asia-Pacific region is critical to current and future U.S. economic growth, competitiveness and job creation. U.S. exporters—whether large or small companies producing goods and services or farmers and ranchers exporting commodities—need access to these fast growing economies and the rising pool of consumers. According to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, the global middle class will expand from 1.8 billion in 2009 to 3.2 billion by 2020 and 4.9 billion by 2030. Most of this growth is in Asia: In fact, Asia’s middle-class consumers will represent 66% of the global middle-class population and 59% of middle-class consumption by 2030, doubling these shares since 2009.” We agreed at that hearing that while the Administration and Congress might differ on global trade strategy, we cannot ignore the fundamental fact that it is the Asia-Pacific region that will be critical for the U.S. economy to grow and for the American people to prosper through trade opportunities. Finally, last week, I held our third hearing in this series, this time focused on promoting our values of democracy, human rights, and the rule of law, in the Asia-Pacific. I was delighted that Murray Hiebert and Ambassador Bob King from CSIS were able to provide testimony on why promoting these values should be integral to U.S. foreign policy today. As Murray observed at that hearing: “[T]he promotion of U.S. values of democracy, human rights, and the rule of law has long been part of the U.S. national identity. Promoting these values sends a clear signal to authoritarian governments that the United States is watching how they treat their citizens, while defenders of human rights and democracy are assured that they will not be abandoned by Washington.” Thus, the ARIA will pursue three broad goals to strengthen U.S. policy toward the Asia-Pacific. First, it will strengthen U.S. security commitments to our allies and build partner capacity in the Asia-Pacific to deter aggression, project power, and combat terrorism. To do so, the ARIA will authorize funds to bolster U.S. military presence in the region, grow partner nation maritime capabilities to deter aggression in their territorial waters, and build new counterterrorism partnership programs in Southeast Asia to combat the growing presence of ISIS and other terrorist organizations. ARIA will also enshrine a policy of regularly enforcing U.S. freedom of navigation and overflight rights in the East and South China Seas. We will reaffirm our commitment to longstanding treaty alliances with Australia, South Korea, Japan, and call for building new regional security partnerships. We will unequivocally back our ally Taiwan, including authorizing new arms sales, regularizing the arms sales process, and providing for enhanced diplomatic and defense contacts with Taipei. Second, ARIA will promote sustained economic engagement and securing U.S. market access in the Asia-Pacific region as essential elements for the future growth of the U.S. economy and success of American businesses. To do so, ARIA will require that the Trump Administration find new and innovative ways to economically engage the region. We will mandate that United States government enhance our trade facilitation efforts and increase opportunities for U.S. businesses to find new export markets in the Asia-Pacific. U.S.-made exports to Asia will mean more good-paying American jobs at home – a win-win proposition. ARIA will authorize U.S. energy exports to the region and establish policies to promote sustainable power generation in Burma and throughout the region. We will also ensure that there is a level playing field for U.S. companies, including cracking down on state-sponsored and state-endorsed theft of U.S. intellectual property in this region. Third, ARIA will enshrine promotion of democracy, human rights, and transparency as key U.S. policy objectives in the Asia-Pacific region, particularly in Southeast Asia. A pillar of any nation that seeks a prosperous future, and a future with a strong relationship with the United States, must be individual freedoms. On December 10, 1986, President Ronald Reagan, in his speech declaring Human Rights Day, said the following: “At birth, our country was christened with a declaration that spoke of self-evident truths, the foremost of which was that each and every individual is endowed by our Creator with certain unalienable rights. And our creed as Americans is that these rights—these human rights—are the property of every man, woman, and child on this planet and that a violation of human rights anywhere is the business of free people everywhere.” I believe that statement still holds true today, as it did then, and it must form an integral part of our nation’s foreign policy So throughout the region, we should advocate for principled policies that emphasize accountability and transparency as indispensable elements of building any security or economic partnerships with the United States. My ultimate goal for pursuing ARIA is to contribute to establishing a U.S. policy that goes beyond a 4-year electoral cycle, but sets a 40-year path for sustained and determined U.S. leadership in this most critical region of the world. I continue to engage my colleagues in Congress and senior officials in the Administration to advance this initiative and I welcome your input as we move forward. The stakes for the Trump Administration could not be any higher in the Asia-Pacific region. The fundamental question is whether it will be the United States or China that will set the standards for the next generation. China’s recent destabilizing actions are proving that its rise will be less than peaceful – and it is imperative that the United States show strong leadership to check Beijing’s worst impulses by projecting American power, promoting our values, and standing by our allies. Putting Asia at front and center for U.S. foreign policy is putting America first – because our future national and economic security depends on it. Thank you for hosting me here today, and I will now be glad to answer your questions. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
07.13.2017	07.13.17 Gardner Introduces Legislation to Impose Economic Embargo on North Korea and Its Enablers Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity, introduced bipartisan legislation that would ban any entity that does business with North Korea or its enablers from using the United States financial system and to impose U.S. sanctions on all those participating in North Korean labor trafficking abuses. The legislation, titled the North Korean Enablers Accountability Act, is cosponsored by Senators Ed Markey (D-MA), Bob Menendez (D-NJ), Marco Rubio (R-FL), and Rob Portman (R-OH). “With its latest successful test of an intercontinental ballistic missile, North Korea has demonstrated intent and capability to hit the U.S. homeland – and as President Trump said, we must never allow this to happen,” said Senator Gardner. “We must take every diplomatic and economic measure now to stop North Korea and to prevent nuclear war. My bipartisan legislation gives those that currently conduct trade with North Korea a clear choice – either do business with this heinous outlaw regime or do business with the world’s leading economic and military power.” “There is no military solution to the threat of a nuclear North Korea,” said Senator Markey, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity. “We must utilize direct negotiations with Pyongyang alongside increased economic sanctions pressure from China to bring the Kim regime to the table and ultimately rid the Korean Peninsula of nuclear weapons. These negotiations could offer the prospect of engaging North Korea in line with international norms by ending horrific human rights abuses, including labor trafficking.” “North Korea’s Fourth of July intercontinental ballistic missile test constitutes a new level of threat to U.S. national security and regional peace and stability that requires a firm response,” said Senator Menendez. “This provocative and destabilizing act has rightly been condemned by the United States and the international community and must serve only to further isolate North Korea. In that vein, the bill we are introducing today is a bipartisan effort that represents additional measures required to get our North Korea policy right. We seek to impose real consequences for those entities who, even after Kim Jong-un’s defiance and continued flagrant violations of international law, continue to do business and support his vicious regime. In light of Pyongyang’s continued determination to have a functional missile capable of reaching the United States topped with a nuclear warhead, I will continue to work with my colleagues in a bipartisan manner to seek effective measures to curtail North Korea’s dangerous and destabilizing behavior.” On July 4, North Korea tested an intercontinental ballistic missile that demonstrated the capability of reaching the U.S. homeland. Two weeks prior to that, North Korea tested a rocket engine capable of carrying an intercontinental ballistic missile. In 2016, North Korea conducted two nuclear tests and 24 ballistic missile launches. This year, North Korea fired 17 missiles during 11 tests. Senator Gardner has applauded recent steps taken by the Trump Administration to ramp up pressure on North Korea, including for the first time designating a Chinese financial institution doing business with North Korea. Ninety percent of North Korea’s trade is conducted with China and Beijing must use its economic leverage to stop North Korea’s illicit and dangerous behavior. Recent reports indicate that China’s trade with North Korea has significantly increased instead. As Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia and the Pacific, Gardner has been the leader in the Senate in deterring North Korea’s heinous regime. Gardner authored the North Korea Sanctions Policy and Enhancement Act signed into law by President Obama in February of 2016. The legislation marked the first time Congress imposed stand-alone mandatory sanctions on North Korea. What this legislation does: Requires the President to block all transactions that are property of the North Korean government, affiliates, or those that do significant business with North Korea. Requires the President to block any entity or financial institution implicated in any significant trade in goods or services with North Korea from the U.S. financial system. Entities include the top 10 Chinese importers of goods from North Korea. Requires the President to prohibit any goods made with North Korean labor from entering the United States and to impose sanctions of all entities implicated in North Korean labor trafficking. You can find the full text of the legislation here. ###
07.13.2017	07.13.17 Gardner Announces $6.2 Million FAA Grant for San Luis Valley Regional Airport Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today announced San Luis Valley Regional Airport will receive a $ 6,230,240 grant from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to rehabilitate runway lighting. Gardner has been a strong supporter of the San Luis Valley Regional Airport and sent a letter to the Department of Transportation in support of continued Essential Air Service (EAS) for the airport in Alamosa. “I’m excited to announce the San Luis Valley Regional Airport will receive over $6.2 million to complete necessary infrastructure upgrades,”said Gardner. “Colorado’s local airports are critical to our rural communities and provide small businesses the opportunity to quickly access urban areas. I’m excited that this particular grant will benefit thousands of people living in counties across southern Colorado that rely on this airport every day.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
07.12.2017	07.12.17 Gardner, Bennet Introduce Resolution Celebrating NREL’s 40th Anniversary Washington, D.C. – Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Michael Bennet (D-CO) introduced a Resolution celebrating the National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL) headquartered in Golden, Colorado. In June, Gardner and Bennet sent a joint letter to the Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development requesting full funding for NREL in the upcoming Fiscal Year. “For the past 40 years, NREL’s cutting-edge research has helped ensure the United States is a global leader in energy technology and grid resiliency,” said Gardner. “Every $1 of taxpayer funds invested through the lab results in $5 of private investment, and NREL’s $870 million annual nationwide economic impact helps support thousands of jobs across Colorado and the country. As NREL marks its 40th anniversary, I’m proud to celebrate the lab and its dedicated employees and look forward to the next 40 years.” “NREL is one of the smartest investments the federal government has made to spur innovation and create jobs,” Bennet said. “That’s why I will continue to fight against President Trump’s attempts to slash NREL funding and diminish our investments in critical research. We need to provide robust support for our federal labs and entrepreneurs who are helping to power a transformation in how we use energy as a country. We thank NREL for its important contributions in clean energy and other innovative research over the last forty years.” You can find the text of the Resolution here. ###
07.10.2017	07.10.17 Gardner, Heinrich Introduce Bipartisan Tech Legislation to Address Workforce Shortage Washington, D.C. – Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Martin Heinrich (D-NM) today introduced the Championing Apprenticeships for New Careers and Employees in Technology (CHANCE in Tech) Act. The bipartisan legislation would provide industry intermediaries, like state tech associations, the ability to receive federal grants to develop apprenticeships within the technology sector. It also works to alleviate the skills gap that may slow the continued growth of the technology sector. Now more than ever before, the U.S. economy is dependent on the technology industry to create jobs and expand economic growth. In 2016 alone, the technology sector contributed more than $1 trillion to the U.S. economy, employed more than 7 million workers, and added more than 100,000 new jobs. Despite these impressive numbers, nationally, during any given 90-day period, there can be more than 500,000 tech job openings. Representatives Seth Moulton (D-MA-6), Jaime Herrera Beutler (R-WA-3), Derek Kilmer (D-WA-6), and Mia Love (R-UT-4) introduced the House companion legislation. “As the technology sector begins to play an even larger role in our economy, it’s important our workforce has the necessary skills and training to perform these jobs,” said Gardner. “The technology industry currently faces a workforce shortage and Congress must work together to address this problem. This bipartisan legislation is an innovative solution to address the workforce shortage and will result in more Coloradans and Americans across the country receiving the proper training to enter the technology industry. The next 100 years will be defined by our ability to compete in the technology sector and the CHANCE in Tech Act will help the United States remain the global leader in technological developments.” “As the technology sector continues to grow in New Mexico and across the country, we need to ensure that our students have the skills they need to compete for these high-paying jobs,” said Heinrich. “By encouraging apprenticeship programs for the tech sector, we can continue to strengthen the STEM pipeline and help New Mexico develop its vibrant technology economy. This bill will connect students, training programs, and community colleges in New Mexico to the growing tech sector where jobs are opening up every day, and create a more prosperous future for our state.” "The demand for highly skilled tech talent in Colorado continues to accelerate," said Andrea Young, President and CEO at Colorado Technology Association. "While we attract young workers from across the country, we need to create clear pathways for local students to make the leap into tech careers. Initiatives like the CHANCE in TECH Act can help connect candidates with work-based learning opportunities that grow our state's economy and provides employers with another option in their overall talent acquisition strategy." “The U.S. is expected to have 1.8 million unfilled tech jobs by 2024. The deficit is not because of a lack of desire by American workers, but a dearth of workers with the necessary IT skills. If neglected, the IT skills gap will affect our country’s ability to protect national security interests and to compete economically on the global stage,” said Elizabeth Hyman, CompTIA’s Executive Vice President of Public Policy. “The CHANCE in Tech Act introduced today will address the growing IT talent challenge by encouraging public-private funding for apprenticeship programs in the technology sector and providing students with the necessary skills to compete in the 21st Century workforce.” ###
07.10.2017	07.10.17 Gardner Applauds Gross Reservoir Expansion Project’s Approval Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today applauded the approval of the Gross Reservoir Expansion Project that will provide Denver Water with additional water storage to meet the demands of Colorado’s largest city. In March, Gardner, along with other members of the Colorado congressional delegation, sent a letter in support of Denver Water’s application for the Gross Reservoir Expansion Project. “After 13 years of going through the federal regulatory approval process, the Gross Reservoir Expansion Project will move forward and result in a new, reliable source of water for Denver Water,” said Gardner. “This project is important for Colorado’s long-term water infrastructure plan and I’ll continue to do everything I can at the federal level to support our state’s water needs.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
07.07.2017	07.07.17 Gardner Concludes State Work Period Western Slope Tour Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today concluded his tour of the Western Slope where he met with Colorado healthcare providers, farmers and ranchers, local elected representatives, and public lands officials. On Wednesday, Gardner toured Raymond Dairy Farm in Loma, stopped at the Peach Shack and Blaine’s Tomatoes and Farm in Palisade, and attended the Cattleman’s Association dinner in Fruita where he spoke with ranchers about policies that could benefit rural America. Yesterday, he visited Dinosaur National Monument to discuss U.S. national park policies, met with members of the Colorado Farm Bureau,toured the Produce Peddler in Mack, and met with executives and doctors at Pioneers Medical Center in Meeker to discuss challenges rural hospitals are facing under the Affordable Care Act. Today, Gardner met with Moffat County officials to discuss economic rural development, visited Knott Ranch to discuss conservation easements and opportunities, and toured the Yampa Valley Medical Center in Steamboat Springs where he discussed healthcare reform. “Meeting with Coloradans, hearing their concerns, and finding ways to work together to move our country forward is one of the most rewarding parts of my job as a United States Senator,” said Gardner. “It was important to have discussions with Colorado’s healthcare providers, farmers and ranchers, local officials, and National Park Service employees overseeing our public lands this state work period so I can return to Washington and advocate for policies that will help all of Colorado.” Click here to download pictures from Gardner’s visit. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
07.06.2017	07.06.17 Gardner, Bennet, Hickenlooper Applaud Outdoor Retailer’s Choice to Host Conventions in Colorado DENVER – U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Michael Bennet (D-CO), along with Colorado Governor John Hickenlooper, today applauded the Outdoor Retailer’s decision to move the location of its three Outdoor Retailer tradeshows to Denver. Beginning in January 2018, the shows hosted in Denver will include the Outdoor Retailer + Snow Show, Outdoor Retailer Summer Market, and Outdoor Retailer November. In February, Gardner, Bennet, and Hickenlooper sent a letter to the show’s organizer, Emerald Expositions, to encourage its consideration of Colorado as the new host for the popular recreation conventions. The letter stated that Colorado is the perfect location for the Outdoor Retailer shows, given the state’s bipartisan commitment to maintaining and protecting public lands. “I am extremely proud Colorado will host the Outdoor Retailer shows and show off our state’s commitment to public lands,” Gardner said. “Colorado’s public lands are a national treasure and we are looking forward to outdoor recreation companies from around the world traveling to the Centennial state for these exciting events. Protecting our public lands in Colorado is not a partisan issue, and I’ll continue working with members of both parties to protect and promote Colorado’s pristine environment.” “We are excited to hear that Colorado will be the new home for the Outdoor Retailer shows,” Bennet said. “This decision recognizes our state’s commitment to protecting public lands, which is the foundation of our outdoor economy. We look forward to hosting professionals from across the outdoor industry in Denver, where they will find a like-minded community dedicated to conservation of our land and water for future generations.” “We are ready to roll out the welcome mat,” Hickenlooper said. “There’s no better time than now to be a part of our dynamic Colorado culture. We’re thrilled to welcome the trade shows to Denver. We can’t wait to greet our new visitors and enjoy the energy and momentum this will bring to the region. We are grateful that the Outdoor Retailer Show has selected Colorado and look forward to building a bright and sustainable future together.” ###
07.04.2017	07.04.17 Gardner Calls for a Global Economic Embargo Against North Korea Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity, released the below statement regarding North Korea’s test of a possible intercontinental ballistic missile that may be capable of reaching the US homeland. “With each additional missile test by North Korea and weak response by the international community, we are moving further down the road of potential military conflict that would have catastrophic consequences. We need to use every diplomatic and economic tool we have now to prevent nuclear war. “Today, I call on the global community to impose a complete economic embargo against this heinous regime in Pyongyang. Every nation of conscience should cut off all finance and trade with Pyongyang, with a few limited humanitarian exceptions, until such time that Pyongyang is willing to meet its international commitments to peacefully denuclearize. The United Nations Security Council should immediately endorse such an embargo in a new resolution, and make it binding on all nations. “I am drafting bipartisan legislation that would ban any entity that does business with North Korea or its enablers from using the United States financial system. I commend the Trump Administration for its sanctions last week against entities aiding Pyongyang, including a Chinese financial institution, but this should be only a first step. “Time for words is over. China can inflict the diplomatic pressure and serious economic damage to North Korea that could move Pyongyang toward peaceful denuclearization and Beijing should do so now. If China fails to act, as it has to date, its relationship with the United States cannot remain the same. Beijing now has a real decision to make – allow the dangerous pattern of escalation to continue or step up and help deter a potential nuclear war.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
06.29.2017	06.29.17 FAA Bill Approved by Senate Commerce Committee Six Gardner Amendments Included in Legislation Washington, D.C. — Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statement following the Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee’s approval of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Reauthorization Act. The legislation reauthorizes the FAA and the Essential Air Service program (EAS), and gives long-term funding and policy certainty to airports across Colorado, including Denver International Airport – the sixth busiest airport in the country. Gardner has and will continue to be an advocate for the EAS program as many rural areas across Colorado depend on it. Additionally, Denver International Airport serves more EAS markets in the country than any other airport. Gardner sent a letter to the Appropriations Committee asking them to continue funding the program, and last year Gardner sent a letter to the Department of Transportation in support of continued EAS for the San Luis Valley Airport in Alamosa. “Today, the Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee worked in a bipartisan fashion to approve the FAA Reauthorization Act that included six amendments I authored along with multiple provisions I helped champion that will benefit Colorado,” said Gardner. “Whether it’s prioritizing helicopter safety, providing funding for airport security equipment, or reducing regulations on Colorado’s airports, the Senate showed once again it is able to work across party lines to get things done for the American people. As Colorado’s first Senator to sit on the Senate’s Science, Commerce, and Transportation Committee in more than 40 years, I’m proud I’m able to advance Colorado’s interests and put our state’s priorities first.” The following Gardner-led and Gardner co-led amendments were passed out of Committee and are now included in the bill. Gardner Amendment 1 – This amendment would make remote towers utilized by airports eligible for the Contract Tower Program if the technology is certified by FAA. Northern Colorado Regional Airport is pursuing a remote tower initiative and want long term certainty if their technology is certified. The base text of the bill also makes the program eligible for Airport Improvement Program funding if the technology is certified at Gardner’s request. Gardner-Hassan Amendment (Gardner Amendment 2 ) – This amendment makes clear that Congress wants the FAA to continue their feasibility assessment into making available the 1300-1350MHz band for non-Federal use. Gardner has long been focused on trying to open up more Federal spectrum for commercial use in order to help ease the load on our current commercial spectrum resources so we can deliver faster and more reliable service and products to consumers. Gardner Amendment 3 – This amendment requires the FAA to expeditiously certify retrofit kits on helicopters to improve fuel system crash worthiness. After a Flight for Life helicopter crashed in Frisco, CO in 2015, it was determined the death of the pilot was not due to the crash itself but from the fire afterwards because the helicopter lacked a crash resistant fuel system. Gardner has worked with his colleagues from both parties to put us on a path where every helicopter in the United States has a crash resistant fuel system to prevent a similar tragedy from happening in the future. Peters-Gardner Amendment 1 – This amendment would expand the eligibility for airports to use their Airport Improvement Program (AIP) dollars to install CCTV security equipment. Providing additional options to airports to meet their security needs is important, particularly in light of security concerns at airports across the world – notably Brussels and Fort Lauderdale. Sullivan-Gardner Amendment 2 (as modified) – This amendment would limit the FAA’s ability to regulate non-aeronautical property at airports that is not relevant to aircraft safety. Rocky Mountain Airport and Denver International Airport have faced regulatory challenges from the FAA when it comes to development efforts for their non-aeronautical airport land and airports should be empowered to control their property without the FAA bureaucratic overreach, so long as it does not involve safety. Lee-Gardner Amendment 3 – This amendment would require the FAA to issue rulemaking related to the testing and operation of supersonic aircraft. Next-generation supersonic technology being developed in Colorado could fundamentally change the way we travel through the air by reducing travel times significantly. Companies pursuing supersonic technology need long-term regulatory certainty from the FAA that will allow their designs to move forward so long as they are safe and meet existing standards for noise. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
06.29.2017	06.29.17 Gardner-Backed Sanctions Against North Korea to be Implemented by Trump Administration Washington, D.C. –Senator Cory Gardner, Chairman of the Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity, has long called for sanctions against those who enable North Korea’s dangerous behavior, regardless of where they are based, and applauds today’s announcement by Secretary Mnuchin to impose sanctions against Chinese entities and financial institutions that conduct business with North Korea. Gardner met South Korean President Moon Jae-in earlier today and President Trump will hold an inaugural summit with President Moon Jae-in at the White House later today. “The road to stop Pyongyang lies through Beijing,” said Gardner. “China can inflict serious diplomatic pressure and economic damage to Kim Jong Un’s reprehensible regime, but it has chosen not to do so in the robust manner that the global community expects. I have been urging the Administration for months to implement the sanctions outlined today and am confident that they can have a serious impact in getting China to take the steps needed with the United States and our allies to better deter the North Korean threat.” China is responsible for around 90 percent of North Korea’s trade, and Beijing’s reluctance to impose necessary pressure on North Korea is what has enabled Kim Jong Un to continue his illicit nuclear and ballistic missile program, whose ultimate goal is to develop a proven and capable delivery system to launch a nuclear strike against the United States homeland. “We are reaching a point of no return with North Korea, and millions of lives could be at risk if we do not exhaust every diplomatic and economic option to stop the madman in Pyongyang,” continued Gardner. “These sanctions announced today should only be a starting point to impose additional pressure on North Korea and all its enablers, regardless of where they are based.” Senator Gardner has been the leader in Congress on actions against North Korea, and is the author of legislation signed into law that implement additional sanctions against the rogue regime. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
06.29.2017	06.29.17 Gardner Meets with South Korean President Moon Jae-in Washington, D.C. — Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Chairman of the Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity, today released the below statement following his meeting with Republic of Korea (ROK) President Moon Jae-in: “It was an honor to meet President Moon Jae-in and welcome him to the Capitol today,” said Gardner. “The U.S.-ROK alliance is forged in blood and our two countries will always stand together to counter all external threats. I reiterated to President Moon my personal commitment to the alliance and look forward to working with the new ROK Administration in the months ahead.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
06.27.2017	06.27.17 Gardner Statement on Repeal of WOTUS Rule Washington, D.C. — Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the following statement after the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and Army Corps of Engineers announced the repeal of the Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rule. “The harmful impacts of the EPA’s Waters of the United States rule on Colorado’s farmers, ranchers, and small business owners cannot be overstated,” said Gardner. “Colorado’s agriculture community is already facing hardship and it is welcome news that this over burdensome regulation will never go into effect. This decision was necessary to protect Colorado’s economy and put a stop to Washington’s unconstitutional takeover of our state’s rivers, streams, and local waterways.” Gardner has been a consistent opponent of the WOTUS rule. He denounced the final WOTUS Rule when it was revealed in May of 2015 and applauded the decision by Federal Judge Ralph Erickson to halt the rule’s implementation in 13 states. In September of 2015, he signed on as a cosponsor of the resolution of disapproval authored by Senator Ernst (R-IA), which later passed the Senate with Gardner’s support. When the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals halted implementation of WOTUS nationwide in October of 2015, Gardner called it “a victory for agriculture, rural communities, and all Coloradans.” In November of 2015, he voted in favor of the Federal Water Quality Protection Act, which would have forced the Environmental Protection Agency and Army Corps of Engineers to re-write the WOTUS rule with much stronger state and agricultural protections as well as more input from local communities. In January of 2016, Gardner voted to override the President’s veto of legislation that would repeal WOTUS, and in April of 2016 he voted in favor of an amendment to the Senate Energy and Water Development appropriations bill that prevents the Army Corps of Engineers from using funding to enforce the Waters of the United States (WOTUS) regulation. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
06.27.2017	06.27.17 Gardner, Bennet Announce $36.6 Million in PILT Funding for Colorado Washington, D.C. — Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Michael Bennet (D-CO) today announced Colorado will receive $36.6 million in Payments in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) funding for 2017. The PILT program is an important resource for counties across the country to provide essential services to their citizens. PILT provides funding to counties which contain federal land within their borders, offsetting the lost property tax revenue that comes from the non-taxable federal land located within the counties. “Throughout my time in Congress, I have advocated for fully funding the PILT program and I’m thrilled 64 local governments in Colorado will receive this funding,” said Gardner. “These grants are critical to rural counties throughout Colorado and are used to fund essential services, including public safety and emergency response efforts. I have already sent a letter to the Senate appropriators to urge full funding of the PILT program for FY2018 and will continue to fight for Colorado’s rural communities.” “The PILT program is critical for communities across Colorado that rely on these funds for services like road maintenance and law enforcement,” Bennet said. “We’ve led a bipartisan effort to provide full funding in FY18 and we’ll continue to work to find a long-term solution to provide counties and local governments sustained funding and more predictability in the future.” “As a kid who grew up in northwest Montana and whose sons graduated from the same high school as I did, I know how important PILT payments are to local communities that have federal lands. These investments are one of the ways the federal government is fulfilling its role of being a good land manager and good neighbor to local communities,”said Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke. “Rural America, especially states out west with large federal land holdings, play a big part in feeding and powering the nation and also in providing recreation opportunities, but because the lands are federal, the local governments don’t earn tax revenue from them. PILT investments often serve as critical support for local communities as they juggle planning and paying for basic services, such as public safety, firefighting, social services and transportation.” Click here to find a list of funding for each county in Colorado. ###
06.26.2017	06.26.17 Gardner, Bennet Lead Bipartisan Group of Senators Aiming to Protect Consumers Washington, D.C. — Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Michael Bennet (D-CO), along with six of their colleagues, sent a letter to Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross and Defense Secretary James Mattis regarding the Administration’s investigation into trade practices involving aluminum. Gardner, Bennet and their colleagues requested the Administration “exempt rolled can sheet, as well as the primary aluminum and ingot milled into rolled can sheet, food and beverage cans, bottles, lids, and closures, from the investigation prompted by the Presidential Memorandum for the Secretary of Commerce dated April 27, 2017. Such an exemption would help protect consumers from immediate price increases and support domestic jobs.” In April, the President directed the Secretary of Commerce in consultation with the Secretary of Defense to investigate whether foreign imports of aluminum are endangering our national security. Colorado is a major beer-producing state and the results of this investigation could have an enormous impact on Colorado’s beer industry. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA), David Perdue (R-GA), Ron Johnson (R-WI), Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Mike Enzi (R-WY), and John Barrasso (R-WY) also signed the letter. The letter reads in full: Dear Secretaries Ross and Mattis: We write to request that you exempt rolled can sheet, as well as the primary aluminum and ingot milled into rolled can sheet, food and beverage cans, bottles, lids, and closures, from the investigation prompted by the Presidential Memorandum for the Secretary of Commerce dated April 27, 2017. Such an exemption would help protect consumers from immediate price increases and support domestic jobs. Under section 232(b)(1)(A) of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962 (“Section 232”), Congress permits the Secretary to initiate investigations against imported articles into the United States in order to “determine the effects [of such importation] on the national security.” We are concerned, however, that the scope of this investigation could include aluminum that has no national security application, such as rolled can sheet, used to make aluminum cans and bottles, and primary aluminum, used to make rolled can sheet, food and beverage containers, lids, and closures. Primary aluminum that is made into rolled can sheet is largely sourced from Canada. Because of this, companies that use these products depend on imports in order to make aluminum cans and bottles. For decades, the United States has run a trade deficit with respect to primary aluminum, the key raw material for producing all of the above products, due to a lack of domestic availability. Import restrictions or tariffs on these products could increase consumer prices, add hundreds of millions in costs for companies in the beverage industry, and potentially affect American manufacturing jobs in industries that rely on these products. We hope you reach the same conclusion and look forward to continuing to work with you on this matter and other opportunities to strengthen the U.S. economy. Sincerely, ###
06.23.2017	06.23.17 Gardner, Bipartisan Group of Senators Reaffirm Importance of U.S.-South Korea Alliance Washington, D.C. — Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Sen. Bob Menendez (D-NJ), along with his colleagues, sent a bipartisan letter to President Trump ahead of his summit with Republic of Korea (ROK) President Moon Jae-in. In the letter, the Senators reaffirm the importance of the U.S.-ROK alliance and urge to pursue joint efforts to deter the threat from North Korea. Additionally, Gardner and his colleagues urged President Trump and President Moon to find a way to expedite the full deployment of the Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) system in South Korea. Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), John Boozman (R-AR), Chris Coons (D-DE), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Johnny Isakson (R-GA), Marco Rubio (R-FL), Jim Risch (R-ID), Dan Sullivan (R-AK), Richard Shelby (R-R-AL), Rob Portman (R-OH), Roger Wicker (R-MS), Mike Rounds (R-SD), Shelly Moore Capito (R-WV), Todd Young (R-IN), Luther Strange (R-AL), and Ted Cruz (R-TX) also signed the letter. The letter reads in full: Dear Mr. President: As you prepare for your inaugural summit with President Moon Jae-in of the Republic of Korea (ROK), we write you to reinforce the importance of maintaining and strengthening the U.S.-ROK alliance and taking effective joint steps to deter common threats, such as the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (DPRK). The U.S.-ROK alliance is forged in blood. 36,574 American troops died in the Korean War, giving their lives for the freedom and prosperity South Koreans enjoy today. Today, 28,500 American troops are deployed in South Korea to protect those same freedoms and to deter external aggression against our ally. American and South Korean troops have fought side-by-side in all major wars the United States has fought since World War II. We ask you to offer a firm assurance to President Moon that the bonds of our historic alliance are unbreakable and that the U.S. is fully committed to our defense treaty obligations with South Korea. We also ask you to reiterate to President Moon that the United States is committed to working with the ROK to implement a full range of multilateral sanctions against the DPRK -- and to intensify those sanctions, if necessary and as merited by DPRK’s behavior. The new U.S. policy of “maximum pressure” with regard to Pyongyang can only be effective with full cooperation and concurrence of Seoul. The U.S. and the ROK must continue to deploy a full range of defensive capabilities and show-of-force exercises to deter the DPRK threat. In this regard, you and President Moon should seek a way to expedite the procedural review that is currently hindering the full deployment of the Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) system. We ask you to reiterate to President Moon that the decision to deploy THAAD was an alliance decision and protects both U.S. troops and millions of South Korean citizens, while not posing any threat to South Korea’s neighbors. You should also assure President Moon that the United States condemns China’s unprecedented campaign of economic and political retaliation against South Korean business interests and other sectors of the economy over the deployment of THAAD. Finally, we also ask you to advance a robust bilateral economic engagement agenda, including securing a mutual commitment to fully and fairly implement the Korea-U.S. Free Trade Agreement (KORUS), and to seek new trade opportunities with the ROK that will benefit American businesses, exporters, and workers. We look forward to your reply and wish you a successful summit. Sincerely,
06.23.2017	06.23.17 Gardner-Backed VA Reform Legislation Signed into Law Washington, D.C. — Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the following statement after President Trump signed the Department of Veterans Affairs Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act of 2017 into law. This legislation makes it easier for the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to discipline (including firing) employees who do not provide the proper care to our veterans and creates an office within the agency specifically designed to receive whistleblower tips. “After multiple scandals at the VA, Congress worked in a bipartisan fashion and passed additional reforms that will have a real impact on our nation’s veterans,” said Gardner. “Bringing greater accountability to the VA has always been a priority of mine and I will continue to fight for our veterans. The men and women who served our country deserve the best possible care and today we took another step forward to meeting that goal.” During debate in the Senate, Gardner offered an amendment that would allow the VA Secretary to reduce an individual’s pension for an act of gross negligence or mismanaging funds. An amendment such as this is necessary because it would have allowed the VA to reduce Glenn Haggstrom’s pension for his gross mismanagement of the Aurora VA hospital project. Last Congress, Gardner led the effort for the completion of the VA Hospital in Aurora. In his first month in the Senate, he teamed up with fellow members of the Colorado delegation to introduce the Aurora VA Hospital Financing and Construction Reform Act of 2015, and much of the language Gardner authored was later included in legislation that provided funding to the Aurora hospital. He was also instrumental in pressing for the Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs to hold a field hearing in Colorado in April of 2015. In May, Gardner worked to garner support for the passage of a short-term funding bill that would allow construction to continue after the project ran out of money. In September of 2015, the project once again was threatened to be shut down in the face of cost overruns. Gardner again secured the funding required to complete the hospital by working with leadership in the House of Representatives and in the Senate. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
06.22.2017	06.22.17 Gardner: It is Time for the World to Wake Up Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity, released the below statement regarding North Korea testing a rocket engine capable of carrying an intercontinental ballistic missile. A properly operating engine is one of the final steps needed for North Korea to launch a missile with a nuclear warhead on it toward the United States. "It is time for the world to wake up. The latest reports of North Korea testing a rocket engine capable of carrying a nuclear warhead far enough to reach American soil deserves global condemnation and a show of determined resolve from the United States and our allies. It is clear we are rapidly approaching a point of no return with North Korea, and there needs to be a global urgency to stop their development of nuclear delivery capability. “I am prepared to draft legislation to target entities and to impose a financial embargo on North Korea. My legislation will present a clear choice to all those enabling Pyongyang: you either do business with a nuclear-armed madman who abuses his own people and has just murdered an American or you do business with the world’s only economic and military superpower. We are rapidly approaching a point of no return, and the world needs to come together if we want to prevent nuclear war.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
06.20.2017	06.20.17 Gardner Receives Commitment from Interior Secretary Zinke on Canyons of the Ancients National Monument Washington, D.C. — Today, during an Energy and Natural Resources Committee hearing, Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) received assurances from Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke that Canyons of the Ancients National Monument is not currently on the Department’s priority review list. Gardner has been a strong advocate for protecting Colorado’s public lands, and recently received the Outdoor Industry Association’s 2017 Friend of the Outdoor Industry Award. In May, Gardner and Congressman Scott Tipton (CO-3) sent a letter to Secretary Zinke requesting “any review of Canyons should conclude that no changes to the designation are necessary.” Transcript: Senator Gardner: Is there an update at all on Canyons of the Ancients? Secretary Zinke: It is currently not on our priority review list. Click here to watch the full exchange. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
06.15.2017	06.15.17 Gardner Votes to Impose Significant Sanction Against Russia and Iran Gardner-Authored Amendment Passes Senate to Assure Continued Access to Space Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) helped pass S.722, Countering Iran's Destabilizing Activities Act of 2017 on Thursday. This legislation increases sanctions against Iran for their illicit ballistic missile tests, arms transfers, and support for terrorist activities. Also included in the legislation was a Russia Sanctions Amendment that contains an array of new sanctions and policy reforms, including prohibiting the Executive Branch from lifting sanctions against Russia without congressional approval, and enforcing new sanctions to combat their cyber-attacks against the United States. “While it will likely not get the attention and coverage it deserves, Republicans and Democrats took action together today against Russia,” said Gardner. “This bipartisan legislation is a strong message to Vladimir Putin: the United States will not stand idly by as you undermine democracy and human rights around the globe.” The Countering Iran’s Destabilizing Activities Act of 2017 also extends and expands sanctions against Iran, including new sanctions on any entity that knowingly contributes to the continued ballistic missile tests by Iran. Also sanctioned will be any entities that provide financial support for other sanctioned parties. “One of President Obama’s biggest foreign policy blunders was the nuclear agreement with Iran, which emboldened Tehran to ramp up its nefarious activities, including ballistic missile tests, support for terrorism, and human rights abuses” continued Gardner. These bipartisan sanctions are a firm response to this grave threat to U.S. national security.” Gardner’s Amendment Adopted to Protect NASA and Commercial Space Launches During consideration of the legislation, Gardner led the fight by offering an amendment to protect NASA and commercial space launches, which provides a major economic boost to Colorado. The underlying language in S.722 would have unintentionally sanctioned our nation’s aerospace civil and commercial aerospace industry. Gardner’s bipartisan amendment will allow NASA to move forward with currently planned missions. Without its passage, NASA would potentially have to close up to seven space missions and billions of taxpayer dollars would go to waste. “I offered a bipartisan amendment to the Iran sanctions bill today for one simple reason: it will ensure NASA and our commercial space industry will continue to be the world’s leader in aerospace,” added Gardner. “Without today’s amendment, U.S. astronauts would be forced to continue to rely on Russia for access to space for even longer. I’m proud Colorado is a leader in aerospace and I will continue to support my home state’s efforts as they play a critical role in space exploration. I’m thankful the Senate came together today to approve this amendment and reaffirm America’s leadership in space.” Last year, Gardner ensured similar language was included in the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (NDAA). It is estimated that Gardner’s provision last year could potentially save the DOD as much as $5 billion. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
06.13.2017	06.13.17 Gardner Applauds End of Ban on U.S. Beef Imports into China Washington, D.C. — Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the below statement following the end of the 13-year ban on U.S. beef imports into China. The United States has been negotiating with China to lift the ban on U.S. beef imports for several months now, and the Department of Agriculture announced they had reached a final agreement with China yesterday. Gardner has long been a supporter of opening up new trade opportunities for Colorado’s farmers and ranchers. He recently spoke on the Senate floor about the agriculture crisis in America and explained how an increase in trade will benefit Colorado’s agriculture community. “As Chairman of the Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity, I am continuing to urge the Trump Administration to explore new trade opportunities for America’s agriculture community in Asia, and this is an important step forward,” said Gardner. “Colorado’s farmers and ranchers will see positive economic gains from this decision, and everyone involved with finally getting the ban removed should be applauded.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
06.13.2017	06.13.17 Gardner Introduces Legislation to Bolster Hydropower Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today announced he reintroduced the Reliable Investment in Vital Energy Reauthorization Act (RIVER Act), legislation that would reauthorize an existing Department of Energy program which provides funding to retrofit existing dams and river conduits with electricity-generating technology. According to DOE reports, there are up to 12 gigawatts of untapped hydropower development within the nation’s existing dam infrastructure, and only three percent of the United States’ 80,000 dams are used to generate clean hydroelectric power. “The Reliable Investment in Vital Energy Reauthorization Act (RIVER Act) is commonsense legislation that is a key component to an all-of-the-above energy strategy,” said Gardner. “Since only three percent of the nation’s 80,000 dams are used to generate clean hydroelectric power, it’s important we have the tools to retrofit these existing dams to produce electricity. Colorado has been able to utilize this program in the past to bring hydropower to communities across the Western Slope, and I’m looking forward to working with interested stakeholders to bring new hydropower opportunities to more of Colorado.” "Senator Gardner understands how important hydropower is to Colorado,” said Kurt Johnson, President of the Western Small Hydro Association. “Senator Gardner's RIVER Act will help ensure that Colorado continues as a national leader in new small hydropower development on existing dams, canals and pipelines. We're excited to support him as he works to get his legislation signed into law." ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
06.08.2017	06.08.17 Two Coloradans Selected by NASA as Astronaut Candidates Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the below statement congratulating two native Coloradans on being selected as NASA’s astronaut candidates. NASA received more than 18,300 applications and selected twelve men and women to join the new astronaut class. “I want to congratulate Lieutenant Commander Matthew Dominick and Jessica Watkins on being selected to join NASA’s newest astronaut class,” said Gardner. “These two incredible candidates will make Colorado proud as they join the bright men and women at NASA who ensure the United States remains at the forefront of space exploration. I’m proud our state will continue to be a leader in space exploration, and I will continue to support Colorado’s aerospace industry.” Matthew Dominick, 35, Lt. Cmdr., U.S. Navy, was born and raised in Wheat Ridge, Colorado. He earned a Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering from the University of San Diego and a Master of Science in Systems Engineering from the Naval Postgraduate School. He also graduated from the U.S. Naval Test Pilot School. Dominick was at sea on the USS Ronald Reagan, serving as department head for Strike Fighter Squadron 115, when he got the call saying he’d been selected as an astronaut candidate. Jessica Watkins, 29, hails from Lafayette, Colorado. She graduated from Stanford University with a bachelor’s degree in geological and environmental sciences, then went on to earn a doctorate in geology from the University of California, Los Angeles. Watkins has worked at NASA’s Ames Research Center and Jet Propulsion Laboratory and currently is a postdoctoral fellow at the California Institute of Technology, where she collaborates on the Mars Science Laboratory rover, Curiosity. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
06.07.2017	06.07.17 Gardner Statement on Nomination of Allison Eid to the Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the below statement following President Trump’s nomination of Allison Eid to serve on the Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals: “Justice Allison Eid is an excellent choice to serve on the Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals. I have known Allison since my days as a student at the University of Colorado Law School and have been extremely impressed with her service on Colorado’s Supreme Court. Whether she was clerking for Justice Clarence Thomas, teaching at CU Law, arguing cases as Colorado’s Solicitor General, or writing opinions as a member of the state’s Supreme Court, she has always been an ardent defender of the Constitution and committed to upholding the rule of law. I look forward to supporting Allison throughout her confirmation process.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
06.06.2017	06.06.17 Gardner Supports Legislation to Bring Greater Accountability to the VA Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the following statement after voting for the Department of Veterans Affairs Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act of 2017. This legislation makes it easier for the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to discipline, including firing, employees who do not provide the proper care to our veterans and creates an office within the agency specifically designed to receive whistleblower tips. “Our veterans have given everything for our country and they should always have access to the best possible care we can offer,” said Gardner. “The vast majority of VA employees are hardworking people that are committed to take care of our veterans with the respect they deserve. However, we have heard far too many stories about a few bad employees that have mistreated our heroes and provided inferior levels of care. This bipartisan legislation holds them accountable by allowing the Secretary the discretion to reprimand or remove bad employees from the VA, and provides another needed step in cleaning up the VA to ensure our veterans always have the highest levels of care available.” During debate, Gardner offered an amendment that would allow the VA Secretary to reduce an individual’s pension for an act of gross negligence or mismanaging funds. An amendment such as this is necessary because it would have allowed the VA to reduce Glenn Haggstrom’s pension for his gross mismanagement of the Aurora VA hospital project. Last Congress, Gardner led the effort for the completion of the VA Hospital in Aurora. In his first month in the Senate, he teamed up with fellow members of the Colorado delegation to introduce the Aurora VA Hospital Financing and Construction Reform Act of 2015, and much of the language Gardner authored was later included in legislation that provided funding to the Aurora hospital. He was also instrumental in pressing for the Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs to hold a field hearing in Colorado in April of 2015. In May, Gardner worked to garner support for the passage of a short-term funding bill that would allow construction to continue after the project ran out of money. In September of 2015, the project once again was threatened to be shut down in the face of cost overruns. Gardner again secured the funding required to complete the hospital by working with leadership in the House of Representatives and in the Senate. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
06.06.2017	06.06.17 Colorado Native David Bernhardt, Nominee for Deputy Secretary of the Interior, Approved by Energy and Natural Resources Committee Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the below statement after Colorado-native David Bernhardt was approved by the the Energy and Natural Resources Committee to become Deputy Secretary of the Interior. “I’m thrilled David Bernhardt was approved by the Energy and Natural Resources Committee to become the next Deputy Secretary of the Interior today,” said Gardner. “As a native Coloradan from Rifle, David has a deep understanding of Western land issues, and I’m confident his expertise and experience will serve the Department well. I look forward to continuing to support his nomination as it is taken up on the Senate floor.” Gardner introduced Bernhardt at his confirmation hearing last month, and Bernhardt has expressed support for Gardner’s proposal to move the Bureau of Land Management’s headquarters West. Bernhardt’s nomination is supported by several stakeholder groups in Colorado and across the country, including the Colorado River District, Colorado Water Congress, Southern Ute Indian Tribe, Outdoor Recreation Industry Roundtable, and the Theodore Roosevelt Conservation Partnership. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
05.29.2017	05.29.17 Gardner Commemorates Our Nation’s Heroes on Memorial Day Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statement commemorating Memorial Day: “This Memorial Day we are reminded of so many men and women who have stood on the front lines of freedom and made the ultimate sacrifice for our country. They answered the call to serve and valiantly protected our freedoms, our liberties, and our rights. I hope you will join me this weekend, and then every day after that, to celebrate and memorialize these brave men and women who valiantly served our country.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
05.25.2017	05.25.17 Gardner Announces $300,000 Economic Development Administration Grant for Southwest Colorado Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today announced Southwest Colorado will receive a $300,000 grant from the Economic Development Administration (EDA). According to the EDA, the funding will be used to “provide resources to capitalize a Revolving Loan Fund that will cover the region of southwest Colorado, which comprises the counties of Archuleta, Dolores, Montezuma, La Plata, and San Juan. “This Economic Development Administration grant is great news for Southwest Colorado,” said Gardner. “The funds will be used to bolster small businesses in the region and support our rural communities that have trouble accessing capital. I look forward to the growth of small business and better jobs as this money is put to use in our local communities.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
05.23.2017	05.23.17 Gardner, Tipton Urge President Trump to Protect Canyons of the Ancients National Monument Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Congressman Scott Tipton (CO-3) sent a letter to Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke in support of Canyons of the Ancients National Monument (Canyons) in Southwest Colorado. In the letter, Gardner and Tipton state, “any review of Canyons should conclude that no changes to the designation are necessary.” The full letter reads below: Dear Mr. Secretary: We write in support of Canyons of the Ancients National Monument (Canyons) in Southwest Colorado. Canyons is a national monument being reviewed by the Department of the Interior pursuant to President Trump’s Executive Order 13792, and we believe any review of Canyons should conclude that no changes to the designation are necessary. Located near Mesa Verde National Park, Canyons was designated by Presidential Proclamation on June 9, 2000, and has the highest known archeological site density of any monument in the United States. With just over 6,000 sites already recorded, there are estimates that there may be between 20,000 and 30,000 sites within the boundaries of the monument. The Bureau of Land Management (BLM) says about this area, “The archeological record etched into this landscape is much more than isolated islands of architecture. The more than 6,355 recorded sites reflect all the physical components of past human life: villages, field houses, check dams, reservoirs, great kivas, cliff dwellings, shrines, sacred springs, agricultural fields, petroglyphs, and sweat lodges. Some areas have more than 100 sites per square mile. “Lands within and around the Monument have been used or inhabited by humans, including the Northern Ancestral Puebloan culture, for 10,000 years, and continue to be used by humans today. Historic uses of the Monument include recreation, hunting, livestock grazing, and energy development.” The designation of Canyons is an example of what the Antiquities Act was intended to do – protect cultural treasures while incorporating the historic use of the land in to the management of the monument so that communities support and promote the designation. It is also an example of consequences that are often not considered by administrations when contemplating these designations: existing funding levels are often times not adequate to support the increase in tourism a designation may bring with it; existing infrastructure that is incapable of accommodating the increased tourism; and land management agencies’ resources being diverted from traditional roles, like permitting of oil and gas or grazing leases to other functions necessary to maintain the monument. Fortunately, Montezuma County, Colorado, where Canyons is located, has forged ahead with BLM to make progress on many of these issues. Coloradans respect and value our public lands, because we understand that our public lands system is unique among all the countries in the world. Canyons is a significant piece of that uniqueness given the history that is preserved there. We hope this information is taken into consideration as you evaluate the designation of Canyons of the Ancients National Monument, and urge you to protect the designation as it stands. Sincerely, ###
05.19.2017	05.19.17 Gardner’s Proposal to Move BLM West is Supported by Coloradans Senator Gardner has introduced legislation that would authorize the move of the Bureau of Land Management’s (BLM) headquarters from Washington, D.C. to the West. This legislation is supported by countless Coloradans and local officials, including Club 20, Grand Junction Area Chamber of Commerce, Colorado Farm Bureau, Fruita Chamber of Commerce, Colorado Rural Electric Association, Colorado Wool Growers Association, Grand County, Hinsdale County, and Montezuma County. What Coloradans are Saying: Club 20 “Decentralization of the BLM will create expanded job opportunities for the Western US and Western Colorado and those making critical decisions on the management and regulation of these lands will be those who live in the communities surrounded by them.” Grand Junction Area Chamber of Commerce “We applaud your “thinking outside the box” and seeing the benefit of moving up to 400 key decision makers in the BLM closer to the lands they manage. It will provide a clearer vision for them of how their decisions impact the lands of the West and offer cost savings in terms of overhead costs such as office space, employee travel and employee housing costs.” Colorado Farm Bureau “Locating the BLM headquarters in the west would send a clear message by Congress and the Administration that it is important for federal officials to be in touch with the areas that are affected by their decisions. We feel this will create needed reforms to federal regulations that have been driven by beltway bureaucrats who don’t see firsthand the impacts of overburdensome rulemaking. This move could result in a more cooperative approach between ranchers, energy development, recreation and environmental benefits that advance when a multiple use concept is applied to federal lands. We feel strongly that a move could end the delays in decision making that are driving up the cost of doing business and resulting in unnecessary bureaucratic obstacles.” Hinsdale County “It couldn’t be more important to have the national BLM office in Colorado which is centrally located in the heart of the American West. Our surrounding counties, also richj in federal lands, face many of the same challenges as Hinsdale with our federal lands.” Montezuma County “Moving the BLM Headquarters to the Western United States will demonstrate BLM’s commitment to the people living amongst these lands that they will listen and work with local residents. Furthermore Decentralization of the BLM will create expanded job opportunities for the Western US and Western Colorado which are some of the most rural and economically challenged regions in the US. Relocating the BLM Headquarters to the Western United States would also be a great benefit to Native American’s whom tribal lands often border BLM. Understanding and developing relationships with our Native American Community cannot be done from an office in Washington. By living and working with the people who are most impacted by BLM decisions, those making critical decisions on the management and regulation of these lands will also be those who live, work and recreate in the communities surrounded by them.” In the News: The Durango Herald: Cory Gardner, Scott Tipton want BLM headquarters moved west “The idea is to simply break up the Washington mentality, to bring the leadership to where the land is,” Gardner said. “This is putting the management and the decision-makers in the same place as those affected by those decisions.” Grand Junction Daily Sentinel: Gardner to BLM: Go west The thrust of Gardner’s pitch is that the more than 99 percent of the nearly 250 million acres of land the BLM manages is west of the Mississippi River. “That is a heck of a long ways away from Washington, D.C., a heck of a long ways away from the policymakers who are impacting the lives of Westerners daily. And that’s why I think we should move the headquarters of BLM to the West, where BLM land isn’t a thousand miles away but it’s in the backyard.” … The idea of moving the headquarters to Colorado won support from Colorado Gov. John Hickenlooper, according to video of comments he made during a panel discussion organized by the Colorado Petroleum Council and American Petroleum Institute. The website http://www.westernwire.net, a news and commentary endeavor of the Western Energy Alliance oil and gas association, posted the video clip in which Hickenlooper talks about the idea of bringing the headquarters here in the state. “We should go get ‘em,” Hickenlooper said to some laughter and applause. Grand Junction Daily Sentinel Editorial: Gardner’s grand idea “Brilliant” may be a strong term, but how else to describe a proposal that would be nothing but beneficial to Grand Junction? It would go down as one of the most important developments in the city’s history for its economic impact alone. Colorado Springs Gazette Editorial: Sen. Gardner takes on Washington On the home front, Gardner is working diligently to try moving the headquarters of the Bureau of Land Management from Washington, D.C., to Grand Junction. He is dead serious and committed to the idea. "There are nearly 250 million acres of BLM land and 99.9 percent of it is west of the Mississippi River," Gardner said. "Of 9,000 BLM employees, only 400 are in the BLM office in D.C. Let's put them to Grand Junction, where 76 percent of Mesa County is public land." KJCT8: Could the BLM headquarters move to Grand Junction? “My idea is to move the BLM headquarters to the west, put it in a state that's surrounded by BLM lands," Sen. Gardner said. Gardner says he'd like to see the agency move it's headquarters nearly 2,000 miles from our nation's capital to Grand Junction. “It's got great air access to the airport. It's right on the interstate. It's located close to Wyoming, Utah and other BLM heavy states," Gardner said. ###
05.19.2017	05.19.17 Gardner, Republican Senators Express Support for Government-Sponsored Energy Research Urge President Trump to maintain funding for energy research to meet science and national security needs Washington, D.C. — U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Lamar Alexander (R-TN), along with four of their colleagues, sent a letter to President Trump urging him to continue to fund the Department of Energy’s research programs. “The United States does many things well, but one thing we do better than any other country in the world is innovation through research,” the senators wrote. “The Department of Energy’s research programs have made the United States a world leader in science and technology, and will help the United States maintain its brainpower advantage and remain competitive with countries like China and India.” “The United States cannot overcome scientific obstacles without the combined support of both the private and public sectors. Federally funded research is imperative to ensuring we meet our energy, science, and national security needs for generations to come.” The letter was signed by Senators Gardner, Alexander, Susan Collins (R-ME), Lindsey Graham (R-SC), Lisa Murkowski (R-AK) and Mike Rounds (R-SD). Full text of the letter is below: We write today to express our continued support for the Department of Energy’s research programs and urge you to maintain funding for these critical programs. Government-sponsored research is one of the most important investments our country can make to encourage innovation, unleash our free enterprise system to create good-paying jobs, and ensure American competitiveness in a global economy. The United States does many things well, but one thing we do better than any other country in the world is innovation through research. The Department of Energy’s research programs have made the United States a world leader in science and technology, and will help the United States maintain its brainpower advantage and remain competitive with countries like China and India. It’s hard to think of an important technological advancement since World War II that has not involved at least some form of government-sponsored research. Take, for example, our latest energy boom: natural gas. The development of unconventional gas was enabled in part by 3D mapping at Sandia National Laboratories in New Mexico and the Department of Energy’s large-scale demonstration project. Then the American free enterprise system, and our tradition of private ownership of mineral rights, enabled Americans to capitalize on the basic energy research conducted at our national laboratories. The United States cannot overcome scientific obstacles without the combined support of both the private and public sectors. Federally funded research is imperative to ensuring we meet our energy, science, and national security needs for generations to come. On May 5, 2017, the fiscal year 2017 Omnibus Appropriations bill you signed into law set record funding levels for the Department of Energy’s research programs. The bill increased funding for the Office of Science, ARPA-E, the Office of Nuclear Energy, Fossil Energy Research and Development, the Office of Electricity Delivery and Energy Reliability, and the Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy. We cannot lose the technological advantages we have gained through our country’s investment in research and development. Governing is about setting priorities, and the federal debt is not the result of Congress overspending on science and energy research each year. We urge you to continue to invest in the Department of Energy’s research and development programs in fiscal year 2018. ###
05.18.2017	05.18.17 Gardner Applauds Army Corps Approval of Chimney Hollow Reservoir Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) applauded the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers announcement that they have approved Northern Colorado Water Conservancy District’s Windy Gap Firming Project, which will allow for construction of Chimney Hollow Reservoir. During his time in the House of Representatives and since being elected to the U.S. Senate, Gardner has been a leading voice to move forward additional water storage projects in Northern Colorado – including Chimney Hollow Reservoir. “I’ve been a major advocate on the federal level to get this water storage project approved as it will be able to hold water to serve more than 90,000 households,” said Gardner. “This project is a major component of Colorado’s long term water needs. Getting to this point has been years in the making, and it is hard to state just how important it is that Northern Water can finally move forward with construction.” Initial phases of construction for the reservoir, which will be built southwest of Loveland in Larimer County, will likely begin in late 2018 or 2019. It will store approximately 90,000 acre-feet of water. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
05.18.2017	05.18.17 Gardner Introduces David Bernhardt, Nominee for Deputy Secretary of the Interior, at Confirmation Hearing Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today introduced Colorado-native David Bernhardt to the Energy and Natural Resources Committee at his confirmation hearing to become the Deputy Secretary at the Department of the Interior. David Bernhardt’s nomination is supported by several stakeholder groups in Colorado and across the country, including the Colorado River District, Colorado Water Congress, Southern Ute Indian Tribe, Outdoor Recreation Industry Roundtable, and the Theodore Roosevelt Conservation Partnership. Gardner also spoke about moving the Bureau of Land Management’s headquarters to the West to be closer to the people it serves and the Arkansas Valley Conduit project in Southeast Colorado during the question and answer portion of the hearing. You can view a video of the introduction and questioning here. Introductory remarks as prepared for delivery: Thank you Madame Chair and Ranking Member Cantwell. It is my honor to introduce fellow Colorado native and my friend, David Bernhardt, as the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources holds this hearing to consider the nomination of Mr. Bernhardt to be Deputy Secretary of the Department of the Interior. Welcome David to the Committee, and welcome to his beautiful family that has joined him today. Will, you might not remember this, but you spent some time in daycare with our oldest daughter. I have known Mr. Bernhardt personally and professionally for nearly two decades. We both grew up in rural Colorado – I am from the Eastern Plains and Mr. Bernhardt from the Western Slope. We share a lot of common interests in rural development and saving small towns. We both began our public service only one year apart, interning for Colorado State Representative Russell George, later to be Speaker of the Colorado House. Mr. Bernhardt worked with my wife, Jaime, at the Department of the Interior with their offices at one point just around the corner from one another. Mr. Bernhardt’s personal background and public and private sector professional experiences prove he is a strong voice for the West and extremely well-qualified for the nomination to be Deputy Secretary. He has extensive insight on Western water policy, natural resources policy, and Indian affairs to name a few. Those that have worked with Mr. Bernhardt commend him for his integrity and wealth of knowledge on the issues under the Department of the Interior’s jurisdiction. In 2008, after the Department reached the largest Indian water rights settlement in the nation’s history, Secretary Kempthorne personally acknowledged Mr. Bernhardt’s work as then-Solicitor and stated, “His effective coordination – both within Interior as well as with the local, tribal, state and congressional leaders – was essential to the success we celebrate today.” The country will benefit from having Mr. Bernhardt serve as Deputy Secretary – a position that is the second ranking official within the Department with statutory responsibilities as the chief operating officer. Along with Mr. Bernhardt’s professional career, I believe it is important to fully understand his background and the foundation of his interest in public lands, which further qualifies him for this role. Mr. Bernhardt is originally from the outskirts of the small town of Rifle, located on Colorado’s Western Slope. Few places more fully embody the spirit and mission of the agency he has been nominated to lead as Deputy Secretary. Growing up in rural Colorado has instilled in him Western values and interests, and to this day Mr. Bernhardt enjoys hunting, recreation, the outdoors, and fishing. Rifle is located in Garfield County, an area where about 60 percent of the lands are federal public lands. Rifle was founded as a ranching community along the Colorado River and retains that heritage today, along with tremendous opportunities for outdoor recreation including fishing, hiking, skiing, rafting, and rock climbing. It also sits at the edge of the Piceance basin, an area in Colorado that has vast amounts of natural gas. Mr. Bernhardt grew up in the oil shale boom and bust and has said that the boom and bust, “has made [him] more sensitive to the potential benefits and the potential impacts, both environmental and social.” In the 1980s, Rifle was hit by the state’s oil-shale crash, and he personally experienced some of the hard times the nation’s rural communities often face. Much like the Department of Interior itself, Rifle is a community that is a product of its public lands and western heritage. Rifle is centrally located within a few miles of the iconic Grand Mesa (the world’s largest flat-topped mountain), the Flat Tops Wilderness, and the Roan Plateau. It represents a home base among these public lands with virtually unmatched access to world-class outdoor experiences, which is why Mr. Bernhardt has such a passion for these issues. His background and outlook on public lands and water issues assisted him in his prior service at the Department of the Interior, including the Solicitor’s role. Mr. Bernhardt’s confirmation as Solicitor was confirmed by voice vote by the U.S. Senate in 2006. There have been other nominees considered by the Committee who practiced private law between public service appointments at the Department of the Interior, including during the Obama administration. Mr. Bernhardt has taken the same steps these nominees did in order for his nomination to move forward today. Mr. Bernhardt’s integrity and ability are two of his strongest qualities for this nomination. Public service requires certain sacrifices and I appreciate Mr. Bernhardt and his family’s acceptance of the nomination to be considered by the Committee. I hope that the confirmation process has not become a broken process that disincentives qualified people, like Mr. Bernhardt, who are held in high professional regard from returning to public service. As the Committee takes up his nomination, I urge my colleagues to hold the nominee to the same process and practice we hold all nominees that are under consideration from the Committee. I look forward to Mr. Bernhardt’s testimony and the Committee considering his nomination. Thank you. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
05.18.2017	05.18.17 Gardner Meets with South Korean President’s Special Envoy First Member of Congress to Meet with the Special Envoy and Welcome him to the United States Capitol Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Chairman of the Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity, today released the below statement following his meeting with President Moon Jae-In’s official Presidential Special Envoy, Dr. Hong Seok-Hyun and Republic of Korea’s Ambassador to the United States, Ahn Ho-young. Gardner was the first Member of Congress to meet with the Special Envoy and welcome him to the United States Capitol. Yesterday, President Trump met with Dr. Hong at the White House. “It was an honor to welcome Dr. Hong Seok-Hyun to the United States to congratulate President Moon on his election and to discuss the historic alliance between our nations,” said Gardner. “The ROK-U.S. alliance is forged in blood and I reiterated to Dr. Hong that America’s commitment to stand by our ROK friends against all external threats is unwavering. I look forward to working with President Moon Jae-In, Dr. Hong Seok-Hyun, and Ambassador Ahn in the months ahead to strengthen our alliance and friendship.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
05.17.2017	05.17.17 Gardner, Colleagues Introduce Bipartisan Legislation to Provide Access to Banking Services for Legal Cannabis Businesses Washington, D.C. – Today, Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO), Jeff Merkley (D-OR), Ron Wyden (D-OR), Rand Paul (R-KY), Michael Bennet (D-CO), Patty Murray (D-WA), Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), Catherine Cortez Masto (D-NV), and Brian Schatz (D-HI) introduced legislation to ensure that legal cannabis businesses can access banking services. The Secure and Fair Enforcement (SAFE) Banking Act of 2017 would solve a key logistical and public safety problem in states that have legalized medicinal or recreational cannabis. Currently, cannabis businesses operating under state laws that have legalized medicinal or recreational cannabis have been mostly denied access to the banking system because banks that provide them services can be prosecuted under federal law. Without the ability to access bank accounts, accept credit cards, or write checks, businesses must operate using large amounts of cash. This creates safety risks for businesses and surrounding communities, and makes it more difficult for local and state governments to collect taxes. “Conflicting federal and state marijuana laws make it difficult for legitimate businesses to use the basic financial services they need access to and this bipartisan legislation gives them that access they need,”said Senator Gardner. “We must also take into account the risk to public safety as these businesses are being forced to carry around bags of money to pay for their employees and rent. Legal businesses should not be treated like this, and I’m glad that Republicans and Democrats are working together to address this issue.” The bill would prevent federal banking regulators from: · Prohibiting, penalizing or discouraging a bank from providing financial services to a legitimate state-sanctioned and regulated cannabis business, or an associated business (such as an lawyer or landlord providing services to a legal cannabis business); · Terminating or limiting a bank’s federal deposit insurance solely because the bank is providing services to a state-sanctioned cannabis business or associated business; · Recommending or incentivizing a bank to halt or downgrade providing any kind of banking services to these businesses; or · Taking any action on a loan to an owner or operator of a cannabis-related business. The bill also creates a safe harbor from criminal prosecution and liability and asset forfeiture for banks and their officers and employees who provide financial services to legitimate, state-sanctioned cannabis businesses, while maintaining banks’ right to choose not to offer those services. The bill would require banks to comply with current Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN) guidance, while at the same time allowing FinCEN guidance to be streamlined over time as states and the federal government adapt to legalized medicinal and recreational cannabis policies. ###
05.17.2017	05.17.17 Gardner to Introduce David Bernhardt, Nominee for Deputy Secretary of the Interior, at Confirmation Hearing Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today announced that he will introduce Colorado-native David Bernhardt when he appears before the Energy and Natural Resources Committee for a hearing on his nomination to become the Deputy Secretary at the Department of the Interior. Who: U.S. Senator Cory Gardner and David Bernhardt What: Gardner Introduces David Bernhardt to the Energy and Natural Resources Committee When: Thursday, May 18, 2017, 10:00 a.m. EST (time is subject to change) Where: Dirksen Senate Office Building 366 Live Link: https://www.energy.senate.gov/public/index.cfm/live-webcast ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
05.17.2017	05.17.17 Bipartisan, Bicameral Lawmakers Introduce Bill to Enhance Cybersecurity, Promote Transparency Washington, D.C. – Following one of the largest global cyberattacks in history, U.S. Senators and Cory Gardner (R-Colo.), Brian Schatz (D-Hawai‘i), Ron Johnson (R-Wis.), and U.S. Representatives Ted Lieu (D-Calif.) and Blake Farenthold (R-Texas) introduced the Protecting our Ability To Counter Hacking (PATCH) Act, bipartisan legislation that adds transparency and accountability to the U.S. government process for retaining or disclosing vulnerabilities in technology products, services, applications, and systems. “The latest global ransomware attack revealed the importance of locating and patching vulnerabilities before malicious actors can attack our most critical systems,” said Senator Gardner. “This legislation ensures the American public has greater transparency into how vulnerabilities and threats are shared between federal government actors, intelligence organizations, and the private sector. We must be vigilant to avoid another massive cyberattack and that requires strengthening the process to help detect and share technological vulnerabilities.” “Striking the balance between U.S. national security and general cybersecurity is critical, but it’s not easy,” said Senator Schatz, lead Democrat on the Senate Subcommittee on Communications, Technology, Innovation, and the Internet. “This bill strikes that balance. Codifying a framework for the relevant agencies to review and disclose vulnerabilities will improve cybersecurity and transparency to the benefit of the public while also ensuring that the federal government has the tools it needs to protect national security.” “As we’ve seen in recent days with the worldwide ransomware attack, the continued threat of cyberattacks means that we need to combine public and private efforts to maintain the security of America’s networks and information. It is essential that government agencies make zero-day vulnerabilities known to vendors whenever possible, and the PATCH Act requires the government to swiftly balance the need to disclose vulnerabilities with other national security interests while increasing transparency and accountability to maintain public trust in the process,” said Senator Johnson, Chairman of the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee and a senior member of the Senate Subcommittee on Communications, Technology, Innovation, and the Internet. “As a computer science major, it is clear to me that one nation's cyber weapon is everyone else's vulnerability, from governments to businesses to consumers,” said Representative Lieu, a member of the House Subcommittee on Courts, Intellectual Property, and the Internet. “Last week’s global WannaCry ransomware attack—based on NSA malware—was a stark reminder that hoarding technological vulnerabilities to develop offensive weapons comes with significant risks to our own economy and national security. It also highlighted that our government’s current decision-making process for when to hoard software flaws and when to disclose them is opaque and unaccountable to the American people. When our medical records, bank accounts and communications are on the line, we must ensure that we are adequately weighing the risks of withholding each vulnerability from the company that can patch it. I am proud to introduce the bipartisan PATCH Act to bring much-needed oversight, transparency and accountability to the Vulnerabilities Equities Process as a critical step to restoring trust and improving our cybersecurity.” “Cyberattacks around the world have increasingly shown the vulnerabilities of both public and private sector computer systems,” said Representative Farenthold. “The government needs to be more aggressive in helping to secure cyber vulnerabilities for everyone’s safety and security.” The U.S. government is one of the many stakeholders researching and finding “zero-day vulnerabilities,” which are flaws in technology that are unknown to the vendor. Before they are patched, these vulnerabilities are susceptible to hacking and make the technologies that we rely on every day less secure. Usually the U.S. government discloses these vulnerabilities to the vendor so they can be fixed, but sometimes it retains them and exploits them for national security purposes. The PATCH Act codifies current government practices to review vulnerabilities and designates the Department of Homeland Security as the chair of the interagency review board. The Board will ensure a consistent policy for how the government evaluates vulnerability for disclosure and retention. The bill will also create new oversight mechanisms to improve transparency and accountability, while enhancing public trust in the process. The PATCH Act has broad support from cybersecurity experts and advocacy organizations, including the Coalition for Cybersecurity Policy and Law, McAfee, Mozilla, the Information Technology and Innovation Foundation, New America's Open Technology Institute, and the Center for Democracy and Technology. “The events of the past week underscore the importance of transparency and oversight in government handling of vulnerabilities. Governments must improve on the goal of getting vulnerability information to organizations capable of acting to protect security in a timely manner upon discovery. We support the goals of the PATCH Act and we look forward to working with Chairman Johnson and Senator Schatz and as it moves forward in Committee,” the Coalition for Cybersecurity Policy and Law said in a statement. “Every year the federal government discovers countless vulnerabilities in software and hardware products used by millions of American businesses and individuals. But instead of responsibly disclosing this information to the developers who can fix these flaws, the U.S. government will sometimes horde these vulnerabilities to use against others. Without this information, these systems are left vulnerable to hackers who can wage cyberattacks against America and its allies. The PATCH Act is a critical step forward to reform this broken process. The legislation will bring needed transparency to the vulnerabilities equities process (VEP) and balance national security interests with economic interests. Moreover, disclosing vulnerabilities to companies in a timely manner will allow them to develop patches sooner and help keep the nation secure,” said Daniel Castro, Vice President of the Information Technology and Innovation Foundation. “All governments have to balance national security interests with economic interests. In some cases governments have an interest in using certain vulnerabilities for intelligence gathering purposes to protect their national interests in ways that make it impossible to disclose. That said, we support the effort by Senators Schatz and Johnson to establish an equitable vulnerabilities review process. This will help facilitate the disclosure of previously unknown vulnerabilities. An improved process will help balance security and economic interests while also enhancing trust and transparency,” said Thomas Gann, Chief Public Policy Officer at McAfee. “The PATCH Act includes key reforms to the VEP that Mozilla has called for, including codification in law to increase transparency and accountability. We look forward to working with Sen. Brian Schatz and Sen. Ron Johnson on the PATCH Act,” said Denelle Dixon, the Chief Legal and Business Officer for Mozilla. To read the full text of the Senate bill, click here. ###
05.17.2017	05.17.17 Gardner, Grassley, Klobuchar Introduce Legislation to Help Rural Hospitals Stay Open, Focus on Emergency Room Care, Outpatient Services Washington, D.C. – Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO), Chuck Grassley (R-IA), and Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) today re-introduced legislation to help rural hospitals stay open while meeting the needs of rural residents for emergency room care and outpatient services. “Coloradans living in rural communities should not be denied access to healthcare simply because they do not live in a large metropolitan area,” Gardner said. “This commonsense, bipartisan legislation provides rural hospitals an option to continue providing emergency services to rural America even if they do not meet Medicare’s criteria for inpatient beds. During an emergency, time is of the essence, and it is critical that we maintain access to life-saving treatment regardless of your zip code.” “A car accident or a heart attack is dangerous under the best of circumstances, but it’s a lot more dangerous for someone who’s far away from an emergency room,” Grassley said. “When a rural hospital closes, its emergency room closes with it. This proposal will fill a pressing need, help keep hospital doors open, and offer hospital services where and when people need them most.” “Our rural hospitals are essential institutions in communities across Minnesota. They don’t just provide vital health services, they employ thousands of doctors, nurses, pharmacists and other health care workers,” Klobuchar said. “Millions of people depend on keeping these hospitals open. Our bipartisan legislation will help ensure that rural Minnesotans and Americans across the country have access to medical care when and where they need it most.” The senators noted that 60 percent of trauma deaths in the United States occur in rural areas, where only 15 percent of the population is represented. The pace of rural hospital closures is accelerating, and many other hospitals that haven’t closed are struggling to keep their doors open. Under Medicare, many rural hospitals are designated as Critical Access Hospitals, meaning they have to maintain a certain amount of inpatient beds as well as an emergency room. Many hospitals struggle to attract enough inpatients to keep their Critical Access Hospital status. When they close their doors, it often means a community loses its emergency services. Studies show that proximity to an emergency room often means the difference between life and death. · The senators’ bipartisan bill, the Rural Emergency Acute Care Hospital (REACH) Act, would create a new classification under Medicare called a Rural Emergency Hospital. The hospital would have an emergency room and outpatient services, and would eliminate the inpatient beds that many hospitals are struggling to maintain. The bill wouldn’t force any new requirements on hospitals. It simply would offer them a new option. The hospitals would have to maintain some protocols in exchange for removing inpatient services, such as being able to rapidly move a patient to a larger hospital elsewhere that offers more services. The bill text is available here. ###
05.16.2017	05.16.17 Gardner, Colleagues Urge United Nations Security Council to Take Action on North Korea Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Chairman of the Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity, today sent a letter to the United Nations Security Council to immediately impose additional sanctions on North Korea. Earlier this week, Gardner condemned the missile test carried out by North Korea. Senators Jeff Flake (R-AZ) and Marco Rubio (R-FL) joined Gardner as signatories of the letter. The letter reads in full: Dear Mr. President: We are encouraged by the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) meeting today to discuss the urgency of the threat posed by the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (DPRK). The DPRK has flagrantly defied the international community by illicitly developing its nuclear and ballistic missile programs, and has violated UNSC resolutions 1718 (2006), 1874 (2009), 2087 (2013), 2094 (2013), 2270 (2016), and 2321 (2016). We urge the UNSC to take immediate and additional actions to increase the pressure on the DPRK and bring Pyongyang into full compliance with its international obligations. In particular, we urge you to adopt new sanctions that prohibit the DPRK’s access to hard currency, prohibit the imports of minerals from the DPRK, cut off the oil supply to the DPRK, and take additional actions to address the DPRK’s malicious cyber behavior. Thank you for your urgent attention to this request. Sincerely, ###
05.15.2017	05.15.17 Gardner Announces $8.4 Million Grant for Denver International Airport Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today Denver International Airport will receive a $8,400,000 grant from the Department of Transportation (DOT) to improve the service road, runway rehabilitation, and runway lighting. “Denver International Airport serves tens of thousands of Coloradans every year and it’s important it receives the necessary resources to continue serving our great state,” said Gardner. “This funding will go toward critical infrastructure projects that will enable the airport to undertake improvements that will ultimately lead to better service for Coloradans. I will continue to support our state’s transportation needs at the federal level.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
05.15.2017	05.15.17 Gardner Statement on North Korea Missile Test Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Chairman of the Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity, today released the below statement regarding the missile test carried out by North Korea on Sunday: “The most recent missile test by North Korea appears to be one of its most advanced yet, and proves that a policy of maximum pressure that fully enforces all sanctions against the regime is the only way to bring Kim Jong Un to his senses,” said Gardner. “It is clear that North Korea is learning from those tests and improving their capabilities, with the ultimate goal of reaching the U.S. homeland.” Senator Gardner is the author of the North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act. This legislation, which passed unanimously in the Senate and was signed into law last year, provides the Administration with a wide range of policy options it needs to exact pressure on North Korea and its enablers, wherever they are based. “The time for rhetoric is over – it is time for concerted action,” continued Gardner. “The situation on the Korean Peninsula is at the most unstable point since the armistice and the Administration must immediately ramp up the sanctions track, especially against the Chinese that are enabling North Korea’s nuclear program. I do not believe we are putting requisite pressure against China that is necessary to stop Pyongyang, and I’ll continue to urge the Administration to do so.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
05.11.2017	05.11.17 Gardner Statement on Opposition to United States Trade Representative Nominee Robert Lighthizer Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the below statement after voting against Robert Lighthizer, President Trump’s nominee to be United States Trade Representative: “I could not support Robert Lighthizer’s nomination to become the United States Trade Representative because I’m afraid his policies could hurt Colorado’s farmers and ranchers. In light of the current agricultural crisis facing much of rural America, if we are not open to new trade opportunities, farmers and ranchers in Colorado and across the country will continue to struggle to make ends meet. We have to allow our agricultural products to flow to markets around the world and negotiate fair deals that will boost agriculture exports. Although I did not support Lighthizer’s nomination today, I am committed to working with him to advance the interests of Colorado’s agriculture community.” ###
05.09.2017	05.09.17 Gardner Congratulates South Korea on Successful Election Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Chairman of the Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity, today released the below statement following Moon Jae-in’s victory in South Korea’s presidential election: “I want to extend my congratulations to the South Korean people and to President Moon Jae-in,” said Gardner. “The United States and the Republic of Korea alliance is forged in blood and the bonds of our friendship are unbreakable. I look forward to working with President Moon to strengthen our security, economic, and diplomatic ties.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
05.04.2017	05.04.17 Gardner Votes for Colorado Priorities in Funding Measure Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statement after voting for Colorado priorities as part of the funding package. “Today’s funding measure is good for Colorado and good for the American people,” said Gardner. “Throughout the last few months, I have worked with my colleagues to make sure this appropriations package benefits Colorado. As a result, the National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL) in Golden has received adequate funding, along with other Colorado priorities like the Arkansas Valley Conduit, the A-line train, and critical highway projects. It also includes the biggest pay raise to our troops in six years. “Additionally, this measure strengthens our commitment to ensuring our science and medical community have the resources they need to develop new medicines and treatments that will save lives. I’m proud to say that this measure increases funding for the National Institute of Health by $2 billion, which is part of a 13.3% increase in funding since Republicans regained control of the Senate.” Gardner has supported numerous Colorado projects that were ultimately included in this appropriations package. Gardner has advocated for various projects, including the A-line train, NREL, the Arkansas Valley Conduit, Orion-SLS, among many others. Gardner also secured $120.9 million for emergency highway repairs in Colorado. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
05.04.2017	05.04.17 Gardner, Bipartisan Group of Senators Introduce Legislation to Reauthorize the Secure Rural Schools and Self-Determination Program Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) joined with Senators Hatch (R-UT), Wyden (D-OR), and 11 of their colleagues, to introduce legislation that reauthorizes the Secure Rural Schools and Self-Determination Program (SRS). The legislation would retroactively authorize SRS payments to reimburse counties for FY2016 and FY2017. The SRS program’s funding is used each year to finance critical projects like public schools, roads, and emergency services throughout Western Colorado. Gardner spoke about SRS payments at an Energy and Natural Resources Committee on Tuesday. In February, Gardner and his colleagues sent a letter to Office of Management and Budget Director Mick Mulvaney to encourage adequate funding for the program. “When I travel across Colorado’s Western Slope and meet with County Commissioners and other local officials, SRS funding is a top priority,” said Gardner. “Our counties need certainty in their budgets to fund schools, road projects, and other vital services my constituents rely on every day. Throughout my time in the Senate, I have worked to find a long term funding solution to this program, and while the legislation will reimburse counties for costs they incurred over the last two years, I will continue to work with my colleagues and the Trump Administration to provide more certainty to those that rely on the program.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
05.02.2017	05.02.17 Bipartisan Group of Senators Introduce Legislation to Provide Access to Epilepsy Treatment Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), along with Senators Jeff Merkley (D-OR), Johnny Isakson (R-GA), Lamar Alexander (R-TN), Ron Johnson (R-WI), Orin Hatch (R-UT), Mike Lee (R-UT), Mark Warner (D-VA), and Tammy Baldwin (D-WI) announced today they are introducing the Therapeutic Hemp Medical Access Act, legislation that would exempt strains of therapeutic hemp, used to fight seizures in children and adults suffering from intractable epilepsy, from the Controlled Substances Act. Rep. Scott Perry (R-PA) introduced companion legislation in the House. These strains, which include the commonly known Charlotte’s Web, contain less than 0.3% of tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), the psychoactive component of marijuana, and have significant medical benefits due to high concentrations of cannabidiol (CBD). Many individuals that do not respond to other anti-seizure treatments have found success using therapeutic hemp oil which is legal in the majority of states but still banned under the Controlled Substances Act. The conflict between federal and state law has forced many families to uproot their lives and move in order to access adequate treatment for their loved ones. The Therapeutic Hemp Medical Access Act would lift federal prohibitions on this treatment option and provide access for patients across the country. This bill has the support of the Epilepsy Foundation, a national non-profit group that advocates for individuals and families impacted by epilepsy and seizures. It is also supported by The Coalition for Access Now, a nonprofit organization led by families advocating for this important therapy. “This bipartisan, commonsense legislation would provide greater access to life-saving treatment for Americans suffering from epilepsy,” said Gardner. “Coloradans know how effective cannabidiol can be and have seen how it changes lives and helps children and adults cope with this serious illness. It is time to make this treatment available across the country and I look forward to working across the aisle to ensure this legislation becomes law and brings relief to American families.” “This legislation will ensure that families of children suffering from seizures have access to treatments that can provide them with a better quality of life,” said Isakson. “The legislation also removes federal barriers for Georgia families who want to bring the treatments back to Georgia to administer in the comfort of their own home. I’m pleased to once again support this effort to help provide relief for those who need it.” “There’s zero reason for the federal government to block access to oils that have virtually no use as a recreational drug, but real potential as medicine,” said Merkley. “We shouldn't let outdated federal drug policy get in the way of treatments that could make a huge difference in the lives of struggling children.” “The State of Wisconsin has passed a law to make CBD oil more accessible to families, including young children suffering from devastating seizure disorders,” said Johnson. “The powerful stories from families in Wisconsin and others from across the country highlight the therapeutic uses for this compound, and the need for the federal government to eliminate uncertainty surrounding access.” “Several local families in our District have children suffer from severe epilepsy,” said Rep. Perry. “As a parent, my nightmare would be to learn that I'm essentially out of options, with no significant way to help my child. These families live this nightmare every day. Their heartbreaking situations compelled me to create access to a supplement that literally has changed lives – in the form of relief not only for the person suffering, but also for his/her loved ones. While Pennsylvania has acted to ensure access to the Cannabidiol (CBD) Oil that has helped so many, we must act on the federal level to ensure that every person needing it is able to access this care. I appreciate Senator Gardner’s teamwork on this issue and look forward to working together to getting this bill across the finish line." “Charlotte, my daughter, has Dravet Syndrome, a devastating form of intractable epilepsy and she had failed all conventional medical treatments by 5 years of age, was seizing or unconscious 24 hours a day, and was unable to walk, talk, swallow, or breathe,” said Paige Figi. “After much deliberation and research, I decided to begin her on a hemp extract rich in Cannabidiol, a promising but scarce anti-convulsant, non-addictive and nonpsychoactive. The oil miraculously stopped her seizures almost entirely. This was ?ve and a half years ago. Today, Charlotte is thriving and can fully participate in life again. She still takes CBD daily as her only therapy. Senator Gardner’s bipartisan bill to exempt CBD from the Controlled Substances Act will ?rmly clarify federal law and allow access to a potentially lifesaving therapy for millions like Charlotte.” Three million Americans suffer from epilepsy, a third of which have “intractable epilepsy” – characterized by frequent, uncontrolled seizures. This condition places a tremendous strain on patients and their families as it often results in serious physical problems including, brain damage, blindness, organ damage and even death. Charlotte’s Web is named for Charlotte Figi, an 8-year-old Colorado resident who was diagnosed as an infant with Dravet Syndrome, a rare and severe form of epilepsy. As the disease progressed, Charlotte eventually came to suffer as many as 300 grand mal seizures in a week, not including the lower level seizures she was experiencing as well. After having exhausted all other treatment options and doing significant research, Charlotte’s parents tried using a low-THC, high-CBD strain of marijuana, ingested as an oil. The results were immediate and significant: Charlotte’s seizures, and their intensity, were significantly reduced. Instead of suffering dozens per day, she now suffers just a handful per month, and usually in her sleep. In the years since marijuana was legalized in Colorado, many individuals and families have flocked to the state in order to obtain the medicine for themselves or loved ones suffering from conditions that are treated by the drug. Legalizing this medication nationwide would prevent families from having to uproot their lives and move long distances just to have access to medicines available in some states but not others. ###
05.02.2017	05.02.17 Gardner, Tipton Introduce Legislation Authorizing Move of BLM Headquarters to the West Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today introduced the Bureau of Land Management Headquarters Relocation Act, legislation that would authorize the move of the Bureau of Land Management’s (BLM) headquarters from Washington, D.C. to one of the following Western states: Alaska, Arizona, California, Colorado, Idaho, Montana, Nevada, New Mexico, Oregon, Utah, Washington, or Wyoming. Congressman Scott Tipton (CO-3) introduced the House companion bill. “Moving BLM’s headquarters West is a commonsense solution that Coloradans from across the political spectrum support,” said Gardner. “Ninety-nine percent of the nearly 250 million acres of land managed by BLM is West of the Mississippi River, and having the decision-makers present in the communities they impact will lead to better policy. Coloradans want more Colorado common sense from Washington and this proposal accomplishes that goal." In addition to the work Senator Gardner and Congressman Tipton have been doing together to draft the legislation, Senator Gardner also spoke with Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke about the importance of moving the headquarters to the West. He brought up the issue during Zinke’s confirmation hearing. “It is critical that land management decisions impacting the West are made by the people who know the land best,” said Congressman Tipton. “Moving the BLM’s headquarters to a Western state would help ensure that federal agencies have a full understanding of the ways their decisions impact our families and communities. I am sure the people of Grand Junction would join me in inviting the BLM to the Western Slope, but a move of the headquarters to any Western city would be welcome news.” “While BLM headquarters anywhere in the West is a step in the right direction, I have made it clear I think Grand Junction is the best place for the agency’s new home,” continued Gardner. “I look forward to working with my colleagues to see this proposal become a reality which will have a positive impact on Westerners that interact with this agency every day.” “The Western states have a long tradition of protecting our natural resources; relocating the Bureau of Land Management’s headquarters to this region is a big step in continuing that effort. Approximately 99% of these BLM protected lands are in the West and I truly believe that those who know the best way to manage the land are those who live on the land. Managing our natural resources would be most effective when you can see the challenges in person and not on a computer or in a report,” said Colorado Commissioner of Agriculture, Don Brown. "Colorado Farm Bureau is excited to support this legislation and thank Senators Gardner, Hatch, Heller, Sullivan, Daines, and Rep. Tipton for their leadership on this issue,” said Colorado Farm Bureau President, Don Shawcroft. “Moving the BLM to the West is a common sense measure that will help bring Westerners and the federal government closer together. Moving the BLM's headquarters is an outward manifestation of an inward resolve to make the agency better at what it does and more closely aligned with the people and places it impacts on a daily basis." ###
05.01.2017	05.01.17 Gardner Announces C-470 Express Lanes Funding for Denver Metropolitan Area Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today announced the Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT) has been awarded a Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (TIFIA) loan of up to $109 million. The loan will be used to help fund the Colorado High Performance Transportation Enterprise Express Lanes project along Colorado State Highway 470 (C-470), the 26-mile highway that runs along the Southern and Western part of the Denver metropolitan area. “This is great news for Colorado,” said Gardner. “Whether it’s the mother driving her kids to school, or the small business moving its products across the state, all Coloradans depend on a strong infrastructure. Our region is in significant need of repairs and new investments to our roads and this funding is exactly why I fought back at attempts to cut the TIFIA program two years ago.” In 2015 Senator Gardner led efforts in the Senate to block changes to the TIFIA program that would have jeopardized this project and several others across the state. If the transportation measure would have passed without Senator Gardner’s requested reforms, the TIFIA program would not have been able to move forward with loans like the one announced today. "Thanks to the efforts of Senator Gardner and others in the Congressional Delegation, we understand the Committee on Credit and Finance met this week and we are looking forward to a positive outcome to finance this deserving project, " said Shailen Bhatt, CDOT Executive Director. "The C-470 Express Lanes project is part of CDOT's vision to improve mobility and reduce congestion in this critical corridor." The C-470 Express Lanes project will expand the most congested portion of Colorado State Highway 470 between Interstate-25 and Wadsworth Boulevard. Construction on the project officially began in November 2016. With this final funding award, the projected is expected to be complete by Spring 2019, according to CDOT. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
04.28.2017	04.28.17 Gardner Comments on North Korean Missile Test Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity, made the following statement after reports said the North Korean regime tested a ballistic missile: “The situation on the Korean Peninsula is at the most unstable point since the armistice and today’s missile launch is further proof of that,” said Gardner. “I support the Trump Administration's new maximum pressure policy and as part of that approach, I continue to call on the President to fully enforce my legislation, the North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act. "If fully enforced, the North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act has the potential to economically cripple the North Korean regime and to help ensure China works more faithfully with the United States, Japan, and South Korea to stop the madman in Pyongyang. The United States must also continue show of strength exercises in coordination with our allies, so that North Korea understands that all options are on the table to deter aggression." As Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy, Gardner led the effort to impose broad new sanctions against North Korea by authoring the North Korea Sanctions Policy and Enhancement Act. Signed into law by President Obama in February of 2016, the legislation marked the first time Congress imposed stand-alone mandatory sanctions on North Korea. ###
04.28.2017	04.28.17 Gardner Appointed to Helsinki Commission Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today announced he has been appointed to the Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe, also known as the Helsinki Commission. The Helsinki Commission consists of 21 Commissioners, 18 from the United States Congress and one each from the Departments of State, Defense, and Commerce. Gardner was selected by the President of the Senate and joins a bipartisan group of Senators on the Commission that include Roger Wicker (R-MS), Ben Cardin (D-MD), John Boozman (R-AR), Marco Rubio (R-FL), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), Thom Tillis (R-NC), Tom Udall (D-NM), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI). The Commission is designed to monitor “compliance with the Helsinki Accords and advanced comprehensive security through promotion of human rights, democracy, and economic, environmental, and military cooperation in the 57-nation OSCE region.” “It is an honor to be selected to join this historic Commission,” said Gardner. “I look forward to working with my colleagues and our partners in the region to advance human rights and security across Europe. The United States is at its best when we are leaders in the global community and I am proud to play a role in this important effort moving forward.” Recently, Gardner co-sponsored Senate Concurrent Resolution 13 reiterating the Senate’s support for the Commission. You can learn more about the Commission here. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
04.27.2017	04.27.17 Gardner Votes to Confirm Alexander Acosta as Labor Secretary Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statement after voting in favor of confirming Alexander Acosta as Secretary of Labor: “I look forward to working with Alexander Acosta to reduce burdensome regulations that hurt our economy and America’s workers,” said Gardner. “Acosta’s record in public service, his interest in making sure our workers are properly trained, and his time heading the Justice Department’s Civil Rights Division make him uniquely qualified to lead the Department of Labor. I’m confident he will work tirelessly to put Coloradans and Americans back to work.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
04.27.2017	04.27.17 Gardner, Peters Introduce Bill to Keep Government Research Data Publically Available For Immediate Release April 27th, 2017 Media Contacts: Casey Contres (Gardner), 202-224-5941 Allison Green (Peters), 202-834-2281 WASHINGTON, DC –U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Gary Peters (D-MI) today introduced bipartisan legislation to help federal agencies maintain open access to machine-readable databases and datasets created by taxpayer-funded research. The Preserving Data in Government Act would require federal agencies to preserve public access to existing open datasets, and prevent the removal of existing datasets without sufficient public notice. Small businesses rely on a range of publically available machine-readable datasets to launch or grow their companies, and researchers and scientists use data to conduct studies for a variety of fields and industries. “Once data has been published and made available to the public, it should remain available to the public,” said Senator Gardner. “Whether it’s a technology entrepreneur working on their next innovation or a retailer seeking better weather forecasting to help organize shipments, data is utilized to achieve numerous goals and plays a critical role in improving processes and our daily lives. I’m proud to work with Senator Peters on legislation that ensures government data remains readily accessible in an appropriate manner and that we continue to prioritize government transparency.” “Research data that has been collected using taxpayer dollars should be publically accessible and easily searchable,” said Senator Peters. “Small businesses and individuals rely on federally produced information for everything from long-term planning to innovative product development to help grow their companies and create jobs. I’m proud to introduce this bipartisan legislation with Senator Gardner that will help ensure that taxpayer-funded data remains publically and openly available for innovators to use as they work to solve our country’s toughest challenges.” Open government data allows businesses and organizations to utilize taxpayer supported resources that help them develop innovative tools and services to address a range of problems facing the United States. For example, a number of startup companies use federal datasets to create products that help farmers, businesses and consumers. FarmLogs, an app created by the Ann Arbor company AgriSight, uses National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration data to allow farmers to check how much rainfall different fields receive. Alltuition, a Chicago-based startup, uses the Department of Education’s National Center for Education Statistics to help high school students estimate financial aid and understand the cost of college. These companies, and the customers that they serve, rely on the continued availability and machine-readability of federal datasets. Though data produced by federal agencies is required to be preserved under the Federal Records Act, there is no requirement to make taxpayer-funded data openly available or machine-readable. Data that is not openly available can be requested through the Freedom of Information Act, but those requests can take years to process and cost taxpayers thousands of dollars. The Preserving Data in Government Act will ensure existing government datasets remain openly available and cannot be removed without sufficient public notice. This legislation is supported by the Colorado Technology Association (CTA) and is related to Gardner’s One More Job/One More Innovation Initiative, a partnership between Gardner and CTA that aims to gather input from Colorado’s technology sector and help enact legislative solutions to promote technology in Colorado and throughout the nation. The bill is also supported by a coalition of government transparency and research groups including the Information Technology and Innovation Foundation’s Center for Data Innovation, the Sunlight Foundation, the Union of Concerned Scientists, and the Natural Resources Defense Council. “Government data underpins billions of dollars of economic activity,” said Daniel Castro, Director of the Center for Data Innovation. “This legislation would create baseline standards for ensuring public access to previously-released government data, while giving federal agencies the flexibility they need to efficiently manage information. By establishing these protections for existing data, Congress would provide confidence to businesses and investors that the U.S. government will not arbitrarily or capriciously cut off access to public data. Moreover, this bill will help ensure that taxpayers have unfettered access to the data they have paid for.” “Democracies depend upon citizens being fully informed about not only how their tax dollars are spent but the performance of government programs and the products created by scientific, regulatory and consumer protections agencies,” said Alex Howard, deputy director of the Sunlight Foundation. “In the 21st century, the Internet provides an unprecedented platform to publish government data on all these areas and more, enhancing transparency and accountability. But it's clear that we can't take quality, integrity or openness for granted. At a time when public access to public information online has become shadowed in doubt, this legislation provides a vehicle to preserve and defend the knowledge commons that has grown over the past decades online.” Scientists, businesses, and local communities need reliable access to federal government data to grow the economy while protecting public health and safety,” said Michael Halpern, Deputy Director of the Center for Science and Democracy at the Union of Concerned Scientists. “This legislation shows that Congress appreciates the vast public benefits that meaningful access to scientific information provides.” ###
04.26.2017	04.26.17 Gardner, Bennet Introduce Bill to Rename Denver Stockyards Station Post Office After WWII Veteran Washington, D.C. – Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Michael Bennet (D-CO) announced the introduction of legislation to rename the Denver Post Office Stockyards Station after Private George T. Sakato, an Army veteran and member of the 442nd Regimental Combat Team who was awarded the Medal of Honor for his heroic actions on October 29,1944, in World War II. While under heavy enemy fire, Private Sakato bravely took control of his unit after his platoon leader was killed and selflessly charged the enemy. He inspired fellow soldiers to follow suit and together they destroyed the enemy position. Private Sakato’s full Medal of Honor citation can be found here. Following World War II, Private Sakato assumed a position with the United States Postal Service. After 27 years of service, Private Sakato retired from the Stockyards Station Post Office. “Private Sakato served his country during World War II and dedicated his life to public service, working for the U.S. Postal Service for 27 years,” said Gardner. “I’m proud to draft this legislation to honor his legacy, and to ensure future generations know the story of this American hero from our community.” “As an American-born citizen of Japanese descent during World War II, Private Sakato heroically volunteered and fought to defend our nation at a time when Japanese-Americans were subject to violations of their constitutional rights,” Bennet said. “By dedicating the Stockyards Station Post Office in his name, we honor his valor on the battlefield and his 27 years of service to the U.S. Postal Service. People like Private Sakato enrich our community and our nation.” ###
04.25.2017	04.25.17 ICYMI: Gardner Discusses North Korea ICYMI: Gardner Discusses North Korea Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity, joined Fox News and CNN today to discuss North Korea. (Click here to watch the full interview.) On the failure of ‘strategic patience:’ “The strategic patience doctrine had bipartisan opposition at the end of the Obama administration, [was] recognized by bipartisan members of the Senate that it was a failure. We've had great bipartisan success and passage of the North Korea Sanctions [and Policy] Enhancement Act, the first time ever placing mandatory sanctions on North Korea, both from a cyber standpoint, as well as a proliferation standpoint.” as we address this madman. (Click here to watch the full interview.) On a trilateral alliance: “I think the United States needs to show strength. We need to show strength in coordination with our allies, rebuilding the trilateral alliance between South Korea, Japan, and the United States. Strengthening that trilateral alliance, using that relationship to force China, who has the most control over the North Korean regime of any nation around the globe, using that relationship to force China to take action all with one goal in mind, and that is the peaceful denuclearization of the Kim Jong-Un regime.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
04.25.2017	04.25.17 Gardner Votes to Confirm Sonny Perdue as Secretary of Agriculture Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statement after voting in favor of confirming Sonny Perdue as Secretary of Agriculture: “It was an honor to vote in support of Governor Perdue’s confirmation to be Secretary of Agriculture. Like me, Governor Perdue grew up in a rural agriculture community and understands the challenges facing our nation’s farmers and ranchers and I believe he is an excellent choice to lead the Department of Agriculture. I look forward to working with him to review and reform burdensome rules and regulations negatively impacting Colorado’s agriculture industry while looking at existing Farm Bill programs to ensure they are meeting the needs of our farmers and ranchers across the state. Earlier this year, I had the opportunity meet with him to discuss how we can work together to support rural communities and properly manage our nation’s forests and I am confident in his leadership to get the job done. “Our nation’s agriculture crisis is only getting more challenging and we need a strong agriculture champion at the Department. Sonny Perdue is that champion and together we can bring relief to Colorado’s farmers.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
04.20.2017	04.20.17 Gardner Questions CFPB’s Impact on Agriculture Sector Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today sent a letter to Consumer Finance and Protection Bureau (CFPB) Director Cordray regarding the impact of the agency’s existing rules and regulations, “on the ability of rural financial institutions to lend to the agriculture sector, particularly in times of low commodity prices.” The letter reads in full: Dear Director Cordray: I write to ask the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) to review existing rules and regulations within the CFPB to determine the impact they are having on the ability of rural financial institutions to lend to the agriculture sector, particularly in times of low commodity prices. According to the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, small and medium size community banks account for 75% of agricultural loans as of 2015, yet they have seen their market share overall sharply decrease from 64% of all banking assets in 1992 to just 19% of all assets in 2015. Moreover, the Federal Reserve reports that we are seeing a prolonged period of banks exiting the market with no new entrants in rural areas. Finally, the report notes the significant uptick of regulatory filings and additional regulatory compliance requirements. To sum up, we are seeing fewer small and medium community banks with less market share and greater regulatory compliance requirements trying to serve the vast majority of rural and agricultural financing needs. I am concerned existing rules and regulations are having the unintended consequence of inhibiting rural access to capital, and the continued downturn of commodity prices could make this worse. With much of the agriculture industry in Colorado and throughout the nation facing a downturn, it is important that farmers and ranchers have access to financing to maintain operations through this difficult time. In Colorado alone, net farm incomes have dropped from over $1.8 billion in 2011 to a projected $392 million for 2017, according to the Colorado Business Economic Outlook. As a lifelong resident of rural America, I have learned that our agricultural markets have peaks and valleys like any sector of the economy. It is critical that farmers and ranchers have the necessary financial tools and resources to weather an economic valley to get through this difficult time. I believe this is an opportunity for the CFPB to review their regulations and impacts they are having on rural America and I stand ready to work with you in the United States Senate to craft legislation that reflects the capital needs of rural and agricultural stakeholders. Thank you for your consideration and I look forward to your response. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
04.18.2017	04.18.17 Gardner Statement on Human Rights Violations in Russia Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, released the below statement regarding continued reports of torture, kidnapping, and murder of gay men in Chechnya, part of the Russian Federation. “These reports are extremely disturbing and contrary to basic international human rights norms,” said Gardner. “I join the Trump Administration's call for Russian authorities to immediately investigate the reports of these horrific actions and hold the perpetrators accountable. The United States will not stand for discrimination based on sexual orientation, or any other reason, and we cannot look the other way as human rights are violated around the world.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
04.17.2017	04.17.17 Gardner Applauds VP Pence Visit to DMZ Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy, released the below statement regarding Vice President Mike Pence’s visit to the DMZ: “I applaud Vice President Pence for sending a message to the world that the era of strategic patience is over. The Vice President’s visit to the Korean Peninsula should be a stern reminder to the madman in Pyongyang that the United States will not sit idly by while he tries to hold the world hostage with his illicit arsenal of mass destruction. “This trip to the region is also an important reassurance signal to our allies that the United States is committed to engagement and leadership in the Asia-Pacific region. Together, we will counter the North Korean regime’s belligerence and boost our economic ties with our allies, which will create more high-paying jobs here at home. I look forward to working with the President, the Vice President, and the entire Administration to reassert American leadership in the region and put America first.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
04.14.2017	04.14.17 In Wake of Bomb Threat, Gardner and Bennet Visit Jewish Community Center in Boulder Washington, D.C. —U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Michael Bennet (D-CO) visited the Jewish Community Center in Boulder, Colorado on Thursday. Last month, the JCC received a bomb threat, and although a suspect has since been identified, leaders in the community have continuing concerns about the recent uptick in anti-Semitic sentiments across the country. As a sign of solidarity, the Colorado Senators met with members of the JCC community and toured the facility. “The Jewish community in Boulder and across the state have been extremely strong and resilient over these last few months,” Gardner said. “I appreciated the opportunity to visit with many of the people that help make Boulder JCC such an important place for all ages in our area, and to reiterate my full support in ensuring that the despicable acts of racism and threats of violence they have faced will never be tolerated. We must all work together to stop anti-Semitism and any other act of intolerance against a religious group.” “Today’s visit to the Boulder Jewish Community Center confirmed the critical role it serves in our community,” Bennet said. “After the recent spate of threats to JCCs like Boulder, we all must stand up against hate and violence and reaffirm our commitment to the American values that make our nation strong. Working with JCC leaders, we will continue to fight the fear that this community has felt, and support the incredible work of the people we met today.” ###
04.13.2017	04.13.17 Gardner Concludes Tour of the Western Slope Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) has concluded a tour of the Western Slope where he discussed a wide range of topics with Coloradans. On Saturday, Gardner was in Grand Junction, visiting with local leaders and giving an update following the conclusion of the US Senate legislative session in Washington. Gardner took questions from constituents and discussed his efforts to remove burdensome federal regulations, grow the Western Slope’s economy, and move the Bureau of Land Management’s headquarters from Washington, D.C. to Grand Junction, CO. On Tuesday, Gardner toured the Rifle-Garfield County Airport and met with airport officials to discuss the importance of local airports to Western Colorado and learn more about the newtechnologies the airport is utilizing to fight fires across the state. Gardner also met with the Garfield County Commissioners to discuss federal land management issues. Next, Gardner visited Colorado Mountain College (CMC) in Rifle and hosted a roundtable with CMC leadership and area school superintendents where they discussed issues facing rural communities. Gardner also met with CMC students and toured the campus to see some of the unique programs offered by the college. Yesterday, Gardner held a healthcare roundtable with healthcare providers where they discussed his efforts to support rural hospitals, including the telehealth legislation he recently introduced, which will expand coverage to telehealth services and incentivize the healthcare industry to develop new technologies that can improve care. Gardner toured the McInnis Canyons National Conservation Area and discussed his support of the Land and Water Conservation Fund with Colorado Canyons Association Board Members. Next, Gardner met with the Fruita City Council and toured Colorado State University’s Western Colorado Research Center where he held a roundtable with members of the Western Colorado Cattlemen’s Association. Gardner and the Cattlemen discussed moving the Bureau of Land Management headquarters to Grand Junction, as well as reducing burdensome regulations that harm Colorado’s farmers and ranchers. “I enjoyed spending time on the Western Slope these past few days and meeting with Coloradans to hear their concerns,” said Gardner. “Whether it’s healthcare reform, public lands issues, or rural economic development, it is important for me to listen to my constituents and understand how policy created in Washington affects their everyday lives. I always say that Washington cannot operate in a vacuum and I look forward to taking everything I have heard over the past few days into account as I work toward solutions that will benefit Coloradans. We have to make sure the Western Slope has that loud, strong voice it deserves.” Pictures available upon request. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
04.10.2017	04.10.17 Gardner Announces Staff Additions Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today announced two additions to his staff. Andy Merritt will replace Chuck Poplstein as Gardner’s State Director and begin on April 26, 2017. Casey Contres will serve as Gardner’s Press Secretary starting today. Andy Merritt is a West Point graduate and served as an Armor Officer with assignments in the Republic of Korea and Fort Carson, Colorado. Previously, Merritt served the people of Colorado in various capacities. He spent two years as a district staffer with Senator Hank Brown and twelve years working for Senator Wayne Allard, serving as his State Director from 2001-2008. He has also served as Congressman Mike Coffman’s District Director for four years. Most recently, Merritt has been the Chief Defense Industry Officer for the Colorado Springs Chamber of Commerce. At the Colorado Springs Chamber, Merritt ran the Defense Development Division where he coordinated community support for the military installations and commands, supported the growth of related industry, and oversaw legislative affairs impacting those sectors. “I’m thankful for Chuck Poplstein’s years of service to Colorado as my State Director and am thrilled Andy Merritt has agreed to take his place,” said Gardner. “Andy’s experience serving Coloradans will be a tremendous asset. I’m confident he will be a tireless advocate for the people of Colorado and I am looking forward to working with him to best serve my constituents.” Casey Contres comes to Gardner’s office from Chairman of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, Congressman Bill Shuster’s (PA-9) office. As Communications Director Contres oversaw Shuster’s personal office communications. “I’m proud Casey Contres is joining our team today and will hit the ground running,” said Gardner. “Casey will be an integral part of my team and will make sure the people of Colorado know where I stand on a wide range of issues.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
04.10.2017	04.10.17 Gardner in Grand Junction: “We have to make sure the Western Slope has that loud, strong voice it deserves” Washington, DC – U.S. Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) was in Grand Junction this weekend, visiting with local leaders and giving an update following the conclusion of the US Senate legislative session in Washington. Gardner took questions from the audience and discussed his efforts to remove burdensome federal regulations, grow the Western Slope’s economy, and move the Bureau of Land Management’s headquarters from Washington, DC to Grand Junction, CO. Note: click here to learn more about Gardner’s visit (courtesy of Grand Junction CBS). Click here to read The Grand Junction Daily Sentinel’s piece on Gardner’s visit and his push to move the BLM to Grand Junction. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
04.10.2017	04.10.17 Gardner, Peters Request Increase in U.S. Science Funding Washington, DC – United States Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Gary Peters (D-MI), members of the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, sent a letter today to the Senate Appropriations Committee urging the Committee to support a substantial increase in federal funding for science, research, and development at the National Science Foundation (NSF) and National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST). Last Congress, Gardner and Peters offered an amendment at the Senate Commerce Committee to increase authorizations of appropriations for NSF and NIST by 4% over existing funding levels, and the amendment passed by voice vote. This letter builds on that effort and the pair’s longstanding work to bolster the U.S. scientific community and U.S. research and development enterprise, including their introduction of the American Innovation and Competitiveness Act that President Obama signed into law in January 2017. The letter reads in full: Dear Chairman Shelby and Ranking Member Shaheen: We write to request that the Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies provide a 4% increase in funding for FY2018 from FY2017 levels for the National Science Foundation (NSF) and the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST). The American Physical Society estimates that a 1% increase in national funding for research and development results in a corresponding 0.13% increase in the national gross domestic product (GDP). Ongoing federal initiatives in research and development are already responsible for billions of dollars in economic output and tens of thousands of jobs in our home states of Colorado and Michigan. Investments through NSF have provided grants to individual researchers across the country that have resulted in such innovations as the algorithm behind the Google search engine, the glass on the face of the iPhone, and advancements in cancer research. Through NSF programs like I-Corps, which we successfully authorized in the American Innovation and Competitiveness Act earlier this year, these investments are leveraged into the commercial sector and attract significant private capital to help grow the economy. NSF also supports significant research and development centers throughout the country, including the National Center for Atmospheric Research (NCAR) in Boulder, Colorado. As the nation’s premier standards and measurement agency, NIST coordinates with industry using a non-regulatory approach to develop standards and best practices on issues as wide-ranging as quantum computing and cybersecurity to pharmaceuticals and telecommunications. NIST also oversees the Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP) program, which promotes American manufacturing and provides significant value to the United States manufacturing community—for example, MEP estimates that every $1 in federal investment generates an additional $17 in manufacturing sales growth. While the private sector invests billions annually in research and development, many in industry have indicated an inability to provide significantly more capital, leaving their investments stranded without adequate federal investment. A 4% increase from FY2017 levels is appropriate and modest compared to several historical appropriations increases. The United States is facing fierce international competition: China invests more than $335 billion annually on research and development initiatives, making them the second largest investor in the world and putting them on track to eclipse U.S. investments soon. Without a substantial increase in research and development appropriations, the United States risks losing its role as the global leader in innovation. We must keep America first. If you or your staffs have questions regarding this request, please do not hesitate to contact our staff. Thank you for your time and attention to this matter. ###
04.07.2017	04.07.17 Gardner, Lee Request Clarification on DHS/CBP Investigation Protocols in Wake of Twitter Incident Washington, DC – United States Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Mike Lee (R-UT) today sent a letter to Secretary Kelly at the Department of Homeland Security to clarify the U.S. Customs and Border Protection’s (CBP’s) protocols for investigating private companies and their customers. This letter follows reports that Twitter is suing CBP over an attempt by the agency to unmask the identity of a Twitter account holder who frequently criticizes the government. The letter reads in full: Dear Secretary Kelly: We are writing to request clarification about U.S. Customs and Border Protection’s (CBP’s) internal protocols for ordering that private companies divulge their customers’ names, addresses, account holder details, or any other personally identifiable information. Recent news reports allege that a Special Agent in Charge at CBP ordered Twitter to reveal the identity of a Twitter user who operates a parody account called @ALT_USCIS. That Twitter user frequently criticizes the government’s policies, specifically those policies in place at DHS and CBP. In order to better understand how and why CBP requests such information, please answer the following questions: 1. Under what statutory authority may CBP pursue agency investigations of private companies, their customers, or individuals? If DHS believes such CBP investigations may rely on multiple provisions of law, please list all that apply. 2. How many requests has CBP made of private companies for their customers’ personally identifiable information or any other information that might otherwise lead CBP to the identity of any of those companies’ customers? 3. Is there any official established policy at DHS or CBP that provides guidance to officials within CBP on when and whether such requests should be made? If so, please provide a reference to that specific policy and if not, please indicate how such decisions are made. 4. Prior to requesting that private companies divulge their customers’ personally identifiable information or other details about their customers, does CBP pursue any other courses of action to attempt to complete their investigation without making such a request? If so, please detail what courses of action CBP typically takes prior to making such a request. 5. Is there any circumstance in which CBP would consider non-criminal speech a sole factor in whether to request that a private company divulge any of their customers’ personally identifiable information or any other information that might otherwise lead CBP to the identity of any of those customers? 6. Are there instances outside of an official criminal or civil investigation in which CBP would request that a private company provide a customer’s personally identifiable information or any other information that might otherwise lead CBP to the identity of that customer? If so, please provide examples of such instances. 7. Do DHS and CBP believe that an appropriate court order should be sought prior to requesting that a private company unmask the identity of one of their customers? CBP must ensure that any properly authorized investigation does not disregard the rights to free speech enshrined in the First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. Greater clarification as to how DHS and CBP approach such investigations will help the public understand your Department’s level of commitment to those fundamental principles. We look forward to your prompt reply. ###
04.07.2017	04.07.17 Bipartisan Group of Senators Look to Gain Permanent Reauthorization of the Land and Water Conservation Fund WASHINGTON, D.C. -- U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO), Richard Burr (R-NC), Michael Bennet (D-CO), and others today introduced legislation to permanently reauthorize the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF), which would fully realize LWCF’s promise to conserve parks, open spaces, and wildlife habitat for the benefit of hunting, fishing, and outdoor recreation. Sens. Susan Collins (R-ME), Steve Daines (R-MT), and Martin Heinrich (D-NM) also cosponsored the legislation. “LWCF is essential to protect Colorado’s natural treasures and I have long supported a permanent reauthorization of this program,” said Senator Gardner. “This bipartisan, commonsense legislation is supported by countless Coloradans and Americans who want to protect our country’s public lands for future generations to enjoy. I’ll continue to work with my colleagues to see permanent reauthorization of LWCF signed into law.” “The LWCF has a proven track record of making good on the promise of conserving our parks, open spaces, and wildlife habitats for the benefit of future generations of Americans,” said Senator Burr. “My colleagues and I offer this bill to permanently extend the LWCF, a program that preserves our natural heritage but does so without asking American taxpayers to shoulder the burden. I look forward to my colleagues coming together to pass this bipartisan legislation.” “Access to Colorado’s open spaces is critical to our thriving outdoor recreation economy,” Senator Bennet said. “The LWCF has supported hundreds of projects across Colorado, from protecting the Ophir Valley to expanding and improving the Animas River Trail to providing Denver kids with outdoor educational opportunities in their own neighborhoods. We should pass this bill to reauthorize the program permanently, and at the same time, Congress should move to ensure the LWCF receives full and dedicated funding going forward." “The LWCF is our most important and successful conservation and recreation program. I have long supported this landmark program that has created opportunities for Americans to enjoy the outdoors in every state,” said Senator Collins. “By permanently extending the LWCF, our legislation will help create a more stable, long-term plan that allows landowners, states, local communities, and conservation partners to reasonably plan for the future.” “LWCF is a critical tool that helps expand access to our public lands and preserves our Montana way of life,” said Senator Daines. “By permanently reauthorizing LWCF we can remove uncertainty and protect access to public lands for future generations." "The Land and Water Conservation Fund has helped protect some of our most treasured public lands and wildlife refuges in New Mexico like the Valles Caldera and Ute Mountain,” Senator Heinrich said. “LWCF also expands opportunities for outdoor traditions like hunting, camping, and fishing that are among the pillars of Western culture, and a thriving outdoor recreation economy. Permanently and fully funding LWCF will help ensure that our outdoor heritage and public lands will be protected for future generations to enjoy." Read the legislation here. ###
04.07.2017	04.07.17 Gardner Votes to Send Coloradan to the Supreme Court Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the below statement following his vote to confirm Neil Gorsuch to the United States Supreme Court. Gardner attended the White House ceremony where President Trump first announced fellow Coloradan Neil Gorsuch as his choice to fill the Supreme Court vacancy and released a statement praising the Judge. The following day, Gardner was the second Senator to meet with the native Coloradan and offer him his full support. Throughout the confirmation process, Gardner urged his colleagues to support Gorsuch and met with interested stakeholders. At the White House, Gardner met with tribal leaders and explained Gorsuch’s deep understanding of Western issues, including tribal law. At the outset of his confirmation hearing, Gardner introduced Gorsuch to the Judiciary Committee. (Video of Gardner’s statement is available to download here.) “Colorado’s Neil Gorsuch is an exceptional choice to serve on the Supreme Court, and I was honored to cast my vote for him today,” said Gardner. “Throughout the confirmation process, I urged my colleagues to support this supremely qualified, mainstream jurist who will serve our country well. Neil Gorsuch has a deep understanding of Western issues and future generations of Coloradans will benefit from his service to our country. Both Democrats and Republicans in Colorado who know Gorsuch best supported his confirmation to the Court. They have praised Gorsuch as one of the brightest legal minds in the country and have seen the thoughtful approach he took while serving on the Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals. It is a proud day for Colorado and the United States has much to look forward to with Neil Gorsuch serving on the Supreme Court.” Audio of Gardner’s statement is available to download here. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
04.06.2017	04.06.17 Gardner Statement on US Strikes in Syria Washington, DC – United States Senator Cory (R-CO) Gardner, a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, made the following statement tonight after reports of US strikes in Syria: “Tonight, the United States of America took action against a treacherous regime whose actions and allies have shown the world the dark edge of humanity. The use of chemical weapons is illegal under international law and the Administration is well justified taking this long-overdue action tonight against a designated state sponsor of terrorism. “I believe this action must be part of a broader strategy to achieve the following U.S. national security goals: to ultimately remove a brutal and lawless regime from power that is in violation of international law, to eradicate the Islamic State and associated groups, and to achieve a clear humanitarian goal of saving the Syrian people from slaughter. “I hope our partners in freedom and dignity will see this U.S. leadership as the first act of a global partnership to end this chapter of depravity.” Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941 ###
04.06.2017	04.06.17 Gardner, Peters Introduce Resolution to Eliminate Duplicative Government Programs Washington, D.C. – Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Gary Peters (D-MI) today introduced the Congressional Oversight to Start Taxpayer Savings Resolution (COST Savings Resolution), legislation that would require Congressional committees to hold oversight hearings on the Government Accountability Office’s (GAO) Annual Report of Opportunities to Reduce Fragmentation, Overlap and Duplication and the GAO High Risk List. The COST Savings Resolution directs Congressional committees to take into account recommendations on how to improve the effectiveness of government programs and eliminate unnecessary costs caused by duplicative federal programs, as well as vulnerabilities for waste, fraud, and abuse and the need for transformation of government programs. “It’s a waste of taxpayer dollars if the government produces reports on wasteful spending and takes no action,” said Gardner. “The COST Savings Resolution would force Congress to act on these reports and work to eliminate wasteful, duplicative programs. As our national debt tops $20 Trillion, it is time we institute serious reforms and eliminate wasteful spending.” “Congress is responsible for ensuring taxpayer dollars are being used effectively and efficiently, and this annual report provides a roadmap to help Congress streamline government and cut wasteful spending,” said Senator Peters, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Federal Spending Oversight and Emergency Management. “By reducing programs that overlap or duplicate efforts, we can cut costs for taxpayers and help ensure that government is serving the American people more productively.” The 2016 GAO annual report identified 37 areas across the federal government where Congress could eliminate duplicative programs and improve efficiency and effectiveness, as well as 25 areas where Congress could reduce the cost of government operations. For example, a previous GAO report found that there were multiple agencies in charge of inspecting catfish for human consumption. Streamlining catfish inspection under one agency could save millions of taxpayer dollars without compromising public safety. The 2017 GAO High Risk List identified 34 areas that are at high risk due to vulnerabilities for fraud, waste, abuse and mismanagement, or are most in need of transformation. The COST Savings Resolution would ensure that Congress acts on these reports produced by GAO. ###
04.05.2017	04.05.17 Gardner, Schatz Lead Colleagues in Requesting Strategy and Results for First Trump-Xi Summit Washington, D.C. – Prior to President Trump’s meeting with Chinese President Xi later this week, Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Brian Schatz (D-HI), along with 11 of their Senate colleagues, today sent a letter urging the President “to pursue a multifaceted and results-focused agenda that encompasses pressing security challenges; equitable economic engagement; as well as human rights and rule of law in China.” Specifically, the letter demands that President Trump ask China to take immediate action to stop North Korea and to cease its destabilizing activities in the East and South China Seas. The letter also asks President Trump to express unwavering U.S. support for Taiwan and to raise China’s behavior in cyberspace that threatens U.S. economic and national security interests. Senators Marco Rubio (R-FL), Joe Manchin (D-WV), Mike Crapo (R-ID), James Lankford (R-OK), Todd Young (R-IN), Mike Enzi (R-WY), Orrin Hatch (R-UT), John Thune (R-SD), Roger Wicker (R-MS), Jim Inhofe (R-OK), and Dan Sullivan (R-AK) also signed the letter. The letter reads in full: Dear Mr. President: As you prepare for your first summit with the President of the People’s Republic of China, Xi Jinping, we write to ask you to pursue a multifaceted and results-focused agenda that encompasses pressing security challenges; equitable economic engagement; as well as human rights and rule of law in China. We believe that a mature, productive, and peaceful relationship with Beijing is in the national security and economic interests of the United States. While the United States can and should seek to engage China, we must be clear-eyed about Beijing’s actions and intentions, and build a long-term strategy accordingly. As you prepare to meet with President Xi, we hope that you make it clear that China’s recent foreign and domestic policy decisions threaten to undermine the U.S.-China relationship, as well as opportunities for our two countries to advance peace and security in the Asia-Pacific region and the world. In order to strengthen the U.S.-China relationship, we recommend an agenda that addresses the following issues: First, we believe that the most urgent challenge between our two nations is the coming nuclear crisis on the Korean peninsula. In 2016, North Korea conducted 2 nuclear tests and 24 ballistic missile launches. We believe that Kim Jong Un is committed to developing his nuclear and ballistic missile programs with one goal in mind: to develop a nuclear-capable ballistic missile that can reach Seoul, Tokyo, and most importantly, the United States. We ask that you make clear to President Xi that the North Korea challenge can only be solved with a firm commitment from both our countries to pressure Pyongyang to stop its illicit activities. As part of our determination, we ask you to reiterate that the Administration will fully enforce the North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act, including imposing secondary sanctions on any Chinese entities that are aiding Pyongyang. In addition, we ask you to reiterate that China must faithfully implement all U.N. Security Council resolutions with regard to North Korea, particularly Resolutions 2270 and 2321 negotiated last year, which require China to drastically reduce coal imports from North Korea. China’s record in this regard has been lackluster so far. President Xi should understand that while the United States seeks China’s cooperation, we will use every economic, diplomatic, and if necessary, military tools at our disposal to deter Pyongyang and to protect our allies. Second, we ask you to relate to President Xi that Beijing’s escalation of tensions in the East and South China Seas are contrary to international law, increase the risk of armed conflict, threaten the global economy, and necessitate a strong U.S. and regional response. Since 2013, according to the Department of Defense, China has reclaimed over 3,200 acres of artificial features in the South China Sea and subsequently built facilities with potential military uses on these islands, including airstrips, hangars, harbors, anti-aircraft batteries, radars, and structures that could house surface-to-air missiles. On July 12, 2016, an international tribunal in The Hague ruled that China violated the sovereignty of the Philippines with regard to maritime disputes between the two nations and we ask you to reiterate that Beijing must unequivocally abide by this ruling. In response to these destabilizing activities, we believe that you should enforce with President Xi that the U.S. defense posture in the South China Sea should remain exactly what then-Secretary of Defense Ashton Carter said at the Shangri-La Dialogue in Singapore on May 30, 2015: “The United States will fly, sail, and operate wherever international law allows, as U.S. forces do all over the world. America, alongside its allies and partners in the regional architecture, will not be deterred from exercising these rights — the rights of all nations.” We also ask you to impress upon President Xi that the strong U.S. relationship with Taiwan is non-negotiable, including defensive commitments outlined in the Taiwan Relations Act as well as the Six Assurances offered by President Ronald Reagan. Third, as the top two economies in the world, our nations are inextricably linked and we must continue to build a trade partnership that benefits U.S. companies and U.S. exporters. However, this engagement also means ensuring that China plays fair. We ask you to reiterate to President Xi that China must stop its state-sponsored and state-endorsed theft of foreign intellectual property. According to a report by the Intellectual Property Commission, chaired by Admiral Dennis Blair and Ambassador Jon Huntsman, theft of U.S. intellectual property is estimated at over $300 billion annually—and China accounts for about 50-80 percent of that amount. China must understand that this behavior is unacceptable, antithetical to international norms, and will have serious consequences. Fourth, we ask that you reiterate to President Xi that China’s state-sponsored or state-endorsed malicious cyber activities negatively impact U.S. businesses, U.S. national security, and our bilateral ties. We also ask that China reaffirm their intent to implement the September 2015 cyber commitments, which include combatting malicious cyber activity and hacking, and not conducting or knowingly supporting cyber-enabled theft of intellectual property for commercial gain. The United States and China should also continue efforts to develop peacetime norms for responsible state behavior in cyberspace. These norms are critical to keeping activities in cyberspace from inadvertently escalating and increasing the possibility of armed conflict. Finally, we ask you to raise China’s deplorable human rights record. Chinese authorities are intensifying human rights abuses and are cracking down on civil society. According to the State Department’s 2015 human rights report on China: “Repression and coercion markedly increased during the year against organizations and individuals involved in civil and political rights advocacy and public interest and ethnic minority issues.” This behavior is simply unacceptable from a nation that wants to be thought of as respectable global power. We hope that you will remind President Xi that its actions on human rights are central to China’s relationship with the United States. The U.S.-China relationship is perhaps the most consequential in the world. We believe that framing the summit around these issues will reiterate to Beijing that while the United States is committed to building a positive bilateral agenda, it cannot be built on the basis of coercion and outside of international legal norms. We look forward to your reply and wish you a successful and productive summit. Sincerely, ###
04.04.2017	04.04.17 Gardner Statement on North Korea Missile Launch Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the below statement following reports that North Korea tested another ballistic missile. “North Korea’s latest ballistic missile test is yet another reminder to the United States, China, and the international community, that we need to take every measure to stop the madman in Pyongyang, and we must do so now,” said Gardner. “President Trump must tell President Xi this week that the policy of ‘strategic patience’ is now over and China must choose to either do its part to stop Kim Jong Un, or face the consequences. The United States must respond to this belligerent behavior by sanctioning all entities that are aiding North Korea’s illicit activities, including imposing secondary sanctions on any Chinese entities involved. “My North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act provides the Administration the necessary tools to further increase pressure on the North Korean regime and I urge President Trump to utilize this legislation to further isolate Pyongyang. We must also stand with our allies Japan and South Korea to counter Kim Jong Un’s increasingly belligerent behavior and prove to the world the United States will no longer lead from behind, but instead lead the effort to stop this grave threat.” Last week, Gardner, along with Senator Ed Markey (D-MA), sent a letter to Secretary of State Rex Tillerson and Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin calling for full enforcement of United States and United Nations sanctions on North Korea. As Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy, Gardner led the effort to impose broad new sanctions against North Korea by authoring the North Korea Sanctions Policy and Enhancement Act. Signed into law by President Obama in February of 2016, the legislation marked the first time Congress imposed stand-alone mandatory sanctions on North Korea. ###
04.04.2017	04.04.17 Gardner, Coons Lead Bipartisan, Bicameral Letters Encouraging White House to Continue to Modernize Federal Infrastructure Energy Savings Performance Contracts and Utility Energy Service Contracts provide key opportunity that has saved federal government over $12 billion the past 20 years Washington, D.C. – Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Chris Coons (D-DE) and Congressmen Peter Welch (D-VT) and Adam Kinzinger (R-IL) today delivered bipartisan letters to President Donald Trump calling on the administration’s support and use of the Energy Savings Performance Contracts (ESPCs) and Utility Energy Service Contracts (UESCs). These public-private partnerships allow the federal government to modernize federal infrastructure and improve energy and water services through innovative financing. ESPCs and UESCs have been primarily driven through executive branch and agency leadership and commitments. During the previous two administrations, there have been high level efforts to build on these commitments. Including, President Bush’s efforts to undertake improved tracking mechanisms as well as President Obama’s commitment of $4 billion in private sector investment through ESPCs and UESCs over five years. The members urged the White House to continue to support these public-private contracting opportunities to save tax payers money, create jobs, and ensure efficient energy and water consumption at our federal facilities. Additionally, last week the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee advanced S.239, the Energy Savings Through Public-Private Partnerships Act of 2017, authored by Senators Gardner and Coons. The legislation is complementary to the message of this letter to the President. The legislation clarifies aspects of the statute to further encourage the use of performance contracting of this type in Federal facilities. The letter reads in full: Dear Mr. President: We are writing today to express our strong support for the continued utilization of Energy Savings Performance Contracts (ESPCs) and Utility Energy Service Contracts (UESCs) within the federal government. These public-private partnerships provide a framework that allows the federal government to modernize federal infrastructure and improve energy and water services through innovative financing. ESPCs have accounted for at least $12 billion of privately-financed improvements to federal buildings over the past 20 years. Once an ESPC is identified by the federal government and an ESPC agreement is formed, the project is financed and executed by private entities and paid for through the future energy savings. UESCs are also an excellent approach to meeting energy and water efficiency needs within the federal government. ESPCs and UESCs reduce the amount of taxpayer dollars spent on energy and water, allowing the federal government to upgrade facilities and meet its resource needs without impact on the federal Treasury. While ESPCs and UESCs are authorized by law, their use is almost entirely driven by executive branch and agency leadership and commitments which we think deserve your continued support. For the last two administrations, there have been high level efforts to build on these commitments. President Bush undertook tracking mechanisms and raised encouragement to a secretarial activity at the Department of Energy, led by Energy Secretary Bodman. President Obama committed to $4 billion in private sector investment through ESPCs and UESCs over five years, which was widely encouraged on Capitol Hill from a bipartisan group of 179 Members. In summary, we urge you to continue to support this type of public-private contracting. ESPCs and UESCs have the co-benefits of achieving energy cost savings, increasing government facility resiliency and security, and eliminating the need for federal dollars for infrastructure improvements. We believe that your administration is well positioned to use public-private performance contracting to the strongest extent possible to eliminate unnecessary spending in our federal facilities. We hope you will work with us to ensure the success of these valuable energy savings financing tools. A PDF of the letter is available here. ###
04.04.2017	04.04.17 Gardner, Bennet Aim to Hold Senate Accountable During Government Shutdowns Colorado Senators Introduce Resolution to Force Senators to Stay on the Job until the Shutdown is Resolved Washington, D.C. - U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Michael Bennet (D-CO) today introduced a resolution to pressure Congress to avoid or quickly end a government shutdown. At the end of this month, the country faces another government funding deadline and the potential for a government shutdown. In the event of a government shutdown, this resolution, if enacted, would set in motion a constant series of quorum calls and roll call votes until a bill to reopen the government has been signed into law. It would have the effect of keeping senators on or near the Senate floor—forcing them to open the lines of communication and work with one another—until the government is reopened. If a majority of senators fail to show up during the shutdown, the Senate Sergeant at Arms will be directed to arrest missing senators. The prospect of missing votes and possible arrest during a government shutdown will serve to keep Senators on or near the Senate floor. ‎ "Coloradans expect their elected officials to do their jobs and work together to avoid shutting down the federal government,” Gardner said. “I urge my colleagues to support this legislation and prove we are a responsible governing body that will do whatever it takes to reopen the government in the event of a shutdown. I’m proud to work with Senator Bennet on this effort and show the country that, regardless of party, Coloradans will never quit working for the American people.” "Washington's habit of turning routine responsibilities into manufactured crises has to end," Bennet said. “With this new Administration, we’ve seen even greater dysfunction in Washington. A shutdown is looming at the end of the month, and we cannot afford to be unprepared. Coloradans don’t shut their communities down because of a disagreement, and the Senate shouldn't be allowed to do so either. This resolution would encourage Congress to avoid such a crisis and work to keep the government open." The standing order, which is modeled after existing procedures, would go into effect following a full or partial government shutdown. The process would begin with the Senate convening at 8:00 AM the day following a shutdown and with an immediate quorum call. If a quorum (a majority of senators) is not present, a roll call vote to request the attendance of absent senators would take place. This process would reoccur an hour after a quorum is obtained and would continue to reoccur hourly all the way up until midnight to ensure senators are in or near the Senate chamber and working toward a solution to reopen the government. The new procedures would also include consequences for senators who choose to ignore the request for a quorum. If a quorum is not present within 15 minutes of the roll call vote requesting the attendance of absent senators, a motion to compel their attendance would be put to a roll call vote. The Sergeant of Arms would report the names and locations of the senators who have failed to report to the Senate floor. If the Senate still cannot achieve a quorum following a motion to compel, warrants would be issued and the Sergeant at Arms would be required to arrest missing senators. ###
04.04.2017	04.04.17 Gardner Receives Consortium of Social Science Associations Distinguished Service Award Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the below statement after receiving the Distinguished Service Award from the Consortium of Social Science Associations (COSSA). According to COSSA, the Distinguished Service Award “recognizes leaders who have gone above and beyond to promote, protect, and advance the social and behavioral science research enterprise.” “It was an honor to receive the Consortium of Social Science Associations’ Distinguished Service Award and be recognized as a champion in our science community,” said Gardner. “I’ll continue to advocate for our science community and ensure they have the necessary resources to conduct their research and maintain the United States position as a global leader in scientific research.” “Senator Gardner has demonstrated unwavering leadership on behalf of the scientific research enterprise, and social science in particular,” said Wendy Naus, Executive Director of the Consortium of Social Science Associations. “We are fortunate to have champions like Cory Gardner in the Senate who recognize the importance of investing in scientific research—across all fields—and prioritizing research funding even in times of significant budget challenges. Senator Gardner worked across the aisle to ensure an inclusive and bipartisan process when writing the American Innovation and Competitiveness Act, and the bipartisanship, transparency and diligence demonstrated by Gardner is greatly appreciated and refreshing.” "I'm delighted to see COSSA recognize Senator Gardner with its 2017 Distinguished Service Award in acknowledgment of his strong support for science in Congress,” said Dr. Myron Gutmann, of the University of Colorado Boulder and the former Director of the U.S. National Science Foundation’s Directorate for the Social, Behavioral and Economic Sciences. “As the Director of CU Boulder's Institute of Behavioral Science, I'm especially grateful for Senator Gardner's support for social and behavioral science research, which addresses human-centered issues of national and global importance." ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
04.03.2017	04.03.17 Gardner Announces Millions In Disaster Recovery Funding Funds to be Used to Complete Infrastructure Repairs from 2013 Floods, 2015 Floods, and 2016 Rockslide Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today the Federal Highway Administration has awarded Colorado the following amounts for disaster recovery: · $111,865,857 for 2013 flood recovery · $5,249,524 for 2015 flood recovery · $7,059,388 for 2016 rockslide on Interstate-70 through Glenwood Canyon In December, Gardner announced he secured funding in the continuing resolution to complete multiple projects and other repairs to infrastructure following flooding in recent years. Gardner joined members of the Colorado delegation in sending a letter to Senate Appropriations Chairman Thad Cochran and Vice Chairwoman Barbara Mikulski as well as House Appropriations Chairman Hal Rogers and Ranking Member Nita Lowey urging adequate funding for the Federal Highway Administration’s (FHWA) Emergency Relief account, which was facing a significant shortfall, to address disaster relief and mitigation projects in Colorado. “This is great news for Colorado and something I have been fighting for since 2013,” said Gardner. “I was thrilled that we were able to work together in the Senate and secure this funding as part of last year’s continuing resolution, and I am excited Colorado will now receive these critical funds. Without this influx of support from the federal government, infrastructure repairs could have taken another 20 years. People impacted by these disasters banded together to rebuild and move forward and I’m proud I have been able to be their champion in Washington.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
03.31.2017	03.31.17 Gardner, Markey Urge Trump Administration to Fully Enforce North Korea Sanctions Washington, D.C. – In light of today’s report that the Trump Administration has imposed new sanctions on North Korea, Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity, along with Ranking Member Ed Markey (D-MA), sent a letter to Secretary of State Rex Tillerson and Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin praising the action and calling for full enforcement of United States and United Nations sanctions on North Korea. As Chairman of the Subcommittee, Gardner has led the effort to impose broad new sanctions against North Korea, as the regime continues to be a leading abuser of human rights and its reckless advancement of nuclear weapons threatens our national security. Gardner authored the North Korea Sanctions Policy and Enhancement Act. Signed into law by President Obama in February of 2016, the legislation marked the first time Congress imposed stand-alone mandatory sanctions on North Korea. The letter reads in full: Dear Secretary Tillerson and Secretary Mnuchin: We write to highlight the urgency of the threat posed by North Korea and to call on you to prioritize resources within your respective agencies to conduct the full enforcement of United States and United Nations sanctions against North Korea. We are encouraged by the action taken by the Department of Treasury today to impose sanctions on North Korean entities involved in weapons proliferation. On February 10, 2016, the Senate passed the North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act (NKSPEA, P.L. 114-122) by a vote of 96-0. This landmark legislation is the first standalone bill regarding North Korea to mandate the imposition of U.S. sanctions on entities contributing to North Korean proliferation activities, human rights abuses, and malicious cyber activities. In particular, rather than simply providing sanctions authority, Section 102 (a) of NKSPEA mandates the President to investigate sanctionable North Korea-related conduct upon receipt of credible information. Section 102 (b) then asks the President to “direct the Secretary of State, the Secretary of the Treasury, and the heads of other Federal departments and agencies as may be necessary to assign sufficient experienced and qualified investigators, attorneys, and technical personnel” to investigate all sanctionable conduct and to coordinate sanctions enforcement. In conjunction with unilateral sanctions, the United States also led the international community to pass sanctions under the authority of the United Nations Security Council, which are universally binding on all U.N. member states. Most recently, the Security Council imposed mandatory sanctions on North Korea in Resolution 2270 of March 2, 2016 and Resolution 2321 of November 30, 2016. However, the recent report of the U.N. Panel of Experts on North Korea documents Pyongyang’s success in evading many of these sanctions, and highlights the troubling failure of a number of countries to effectively stem the flow of illicit North Korean commercial and financial activity. We are grateful for your public commitment to full enforcement of United States and United Nations sanctions against North Korea during your respective confirmation hearings. However, we recognize that effective enforcement requires not only leadership and dedication, but also sufficient resources and skilled personnel to implement these policies throughout your agencies. With this in mind, we respectfully ask you the following: 1) What are the current budgetary and work force resources at the Department of State and the Department of Treasury that are dedicated to the enforcement of P.L. 114-222 and other North Korea-related sanctions? Do you believe these resources are sufficient to fully enforce U.S. law? 2) How many investigations pursuant to Sec. 102 of P.L. 114-122 are currently ongoing? 3) Please provide the details of the Fiscal Year 2018 request for the Office of Economic Sanctions and Policy at the Department of State and the Office of Foreign Assets Control at Department of Treasury and how this request compares to the last five fiscal years. 4) Please describe the resources your respective departments have dedicated to strengthening enforcement of U.N. Security Council sanctions, and particularly to addressing shortfalls in the capacity and will of third countries to comply with their sanctions enforcement obligations. 5) Would you support the establishment of special U.S. government interagency taskforce to implement U.S. and U.N. sanctions against North Korea? If not, why not? Please provide a written response and a member-level and staff briefing, in classified form if necessary, no later than April 28, 2017. Sincerely, ###
03.30.2017	03.30.17 Gardner, Peters Introduce Bipartisan Legislation to Expand Telehealth Services Washington, D.C. – Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Gary Peters (D-MI) today introduced the Telehealth Innovation and Improvement Act, legislation that would expand access to healthcare in both rural and urban areas by paving the way for Medicare to cover additional telehealth services. Currently, Medicare covers limited telehealth services, setting a poor industry standard, discouraging innovation, and restricting access to specialized services. The Telehealth Innovation and Improvement Act requires the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to allow eligible hospitals to test telehealth services through the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation (CMI). Additionally, it directs CMI to have an independent evaluation conducted to assess the telehealth models for cost, effectiveness, and improvement in quality of care without increasing the cost of delivery. If the telehealth model meets this criteria, then the model will be covered through the greater Medicare program. “All Coloradans deserve access to health care services regardless of whether they live in rural or urban areas,” said Gardner. “The Telehealth Innovation and Improvement Act would allow Medicare to expand coverage of telehealth services and increase access for people living in rural America. It would also incentivize the healthcare industry to develop new technologies that could potentially reduce costs and improve patient health. I’ll continue to work with my colleagues to advance this commonsense legislation that will help rural Coloradans access better care.” “Michigan seniors and families in rural and underserved communities are using telehealth technology to receive specialized and quality health care that otherwise would not be readily available,”said Senator Peters. “This bipartisan, commonsense legislation has the potential to help expand access to care for Michigan seniors, lower health care costs and reduce costly emergency room visits, hospitalizations and readmissions.” ###
03.30.2017	03.30.17 Gardner, Bennet Public Lands Bills Approved by Energy and Natural Resources Committee Washington, D.C. – Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Michael Bennet (D-CO) today released the following statements after five Colorado-specific public lands bills were unanimously approved by the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. Gardner and Bennet introduced the bipartisan bills earlier this year. “Protecting and promoting Colorado’s public lands is not a partisan issue, and I’m proud to work across the aisle to move these priorities forward,” said Gardner. “Each piece of legislation is important to Colorado and I’ll continue to support efforts that will ensure future generations of Coloradans are able to enjoy our state’s natural treasurers.” "Our public lands define Colorado and help drive our outdoor recreation economy,” Bennet said. “These bipartisan, commonsense bills will expand outdoor access and preserve and protect wildlife habitat for years to come. The Committee’s approval of these measures is a win for Colorado, and we’ll continue to work to advance these measures in the Senate." · The Bolts Ditch Access and Use Act (S. 285) would authorize special use of the Bolts Ditch headgate and the segment of the Bolts Ditch within the Holy Cross Wilderness Area, allowing the town of Minturn, Colorado to use its existing water right to fill Bolts Lake. This would solve a problem created in 1980 when Congress designated Holy Cross Wilderness area, but inadvertently left Bolts Ditch off of the list of existing water facilities. · The Florissant Fossil Beds National Monument (S. 287) legislation will allow for enhanced wildfire protection as well as additional habitat for wildlife and recreational opportunities for visitors. Established as a national monument in 1969, the Florissant Fossil Beds National Monument is located west of Pikes Peak and less than 40 miles from Colorado Springs. The monument is home to diverse fossil deposits, maintaining a collection of over 12,000 specimens. It also provides recreational experiences and curriculum-based education programs for its visitors. A private landowner submitted a proposal to donate 280 acres of land adjacent to Florissant Fossil Beds Monument, but due to current law the land donation cannot take place. This commonsense legislation would permit a landowner to donate private land to Florissant Fossil Beds National Monument. · The Wedge Act (H.R. 688) would aid the Forest Service in acquiring several parcels of land adjacent to Rocky Mountain National Park. This Act would help preserve critical wildlife habitat, Colorado River headwaters, and a highly visible view shed in the area commonly referred to as the Wedge. · The Crags, Colorado Land Exchange Act (H.R. 618) is a federal land exchange where the Forest Service would acquire pristine land in the Pike National Forest allowing for more outdoor recreation near Pikes Peak. · The Elkhorn Ranch and White River National Forest Conveyance Act (H.R. 698) would correct the discrepancy that took place from conflicting land surveys and require the Forest Service to convey acreage to private ownership that is rightfully private property, according to the Forest Service’s own conclusion and recommendation. For nearly 100 years, 148 acres of land has been used as private land even though it is included in Forest Service survey maps, and this legislation allows for the resolution between the Forest Service and the private landowner. ###
03.30.2017	03.30.17 Gardner Energy Efficiency Legislation Approved by Energy and Natural Resources Committee Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the below statement after the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee unanimously approved the Energy Savings Through Public-Private Partnerships Act of 2017 (S. 239), legislation that encourages the use of Energy Savings Performance Contracts (ESPCs) and Utility Energy Savings Contracts (UESCs) in federal buildings. Gardner introduced this bipartisan legislation in January with Senators Chris Coons (D-DE), Rob Portman (R-OH), and Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH). Mandatory federal audits already outline energy savings projects for federal facilities aimed at reducing energy consumption and saving tax dollars; however, federal agencies are currently not required to implement these changes. This legislation changes that and would allow projects to be paid for by ESPCs or UESCs. ESPCs and UESCs are innovative public-private partnerships in which private companies use their own money and resources to make energy efficiency upgrades to federal buildings. In exchange for making energy efficient upgrades, those private companies receive a portion of the money saved as a result of the increased efficiency in federal buildings. ESPCs and UESCs create private sector jobs upgrading the federal government’s estimated three billion square feet of office space at no real cost to taxpayers. “This commonsense, bipartisan legislation will increase federal buildings’ energy efficiency and save taxpayer dollars through public-private partnerships,” said Gardner. “I’m proud to lead this legislation that will ultimately create private sector jobs and protect our environment for future generations.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
03.24.2017	03.24.17 Gardner, Senate Colleagues Urge Full Funding of PILT Program Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), along with 33 of his Senate colleagues, sent a letter to Senate Appropriations Committee Chairman Thad Cochran (R-MI) and Vice Chairman Patrick Leahy (D-VT) urging the full funding of the Payments in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) program. The letter reads in full: Dear Chairman Cochran and Vice Chairman Leahy, As Members of Congress representing counties with federal public lands within their boundaries, we write to request that you work together to ensure the Payments in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) program is fully funded. PILT provides critical resources to nearly 1,900 counties across 49 states to offset lost property tax revenue due to the presence of tax-exempt federal lands within their jurisdictions. It supports the many critical services that counties provide on federal public lands. Without full funding for the PILT program in fiscal year (FY) 2018, counties across the nation will be unable to provide essential services such as law enforcement, education, search and rescue, road maintenance and public health to their residents and millions of federal lands visitors. Moving forward, we hope Congress can work together to enact a fiscally responsible, long-term solution to fully fund PILT and eliminate the ongoing funding uncertainty counties face. As counties across the country work to balance their own budgets, enacting full-funding for PILT is essential to provide certainty that the federal government will continue to uphold its long-standing commitment to public lands counties. We look forward to working with you to resolve this pressing issue facing our communities by fully funding PILT in FY 2018 and ensuring long-term predictable funding for this important program. Sincerely, ###
03.22.2017	03.22.17 Bipartisan Group Of Senators Introduce Legislation To Strengthen U.S.-Israel Economic Partnership WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO), David Perdue (R-GA), Chris Coons (D-DE), and Jon Tester (D-MT) today introduced bipartisan legislation to recognize the economic accomplishments of the U.S.-Israel economic partnership and support new agreements for collaboration across a variety of sectors within the technology sphere. Since the signing of the U.S.-Israel Free Trade Agreement, Israel has become one of our country’s most dynamic economic collaborators in the Middle East and North Africa. Today, individual states are partnering with Israel to collaborate on life-changing medical breakthroughs and clean energy technology. This legislation supports and improves on these partnerships. “The U.S.-Israel alliance not only plays an important role to ensure peace and stability across the globe, but also serves both countries’ economic interests,” said Senator Gardner. “As the only democracy in the Middle East, Israel highlights the benefits of a free society. Strong economic ties between our two nations has led to a partnership that both countries can be proud of, and as we look toward the future, we must continue to find ways we can work together to develop new technologies that will change the world.” “Israel is a hub for innovation, and our strong alliance has paved the way for great economic opportunities,” said Senator Perdue. “We will continue working with Prime Minister Netanyahu to explore new areas for collaboration across the economic spectrum.” “I am proud to cosponsor a resolution that commemorates the strong economic ties between the United States and Israel and highlights opportunities for increased partnerships in fields such as agriculture, cybersecurity, and medicine,” said Senator Coons. “I continue to be impressed with the entrepreneurial spirit of the Israeli people and will work with my colleagues to counter the economic isolation of Israel.” “Israel is one of our strongest allies in the world and our economic partnership only strengthens this alliance,” said Senator Tester. “I look forward to expanding our diplomatic and economic relationship with Israel for decades to come.” The senators were joined by U.S. Senators Susan Collins (R-ME), Ted Cruz (R-TX), Johnny Isakson (R-GA), Tim Kaine (D-VA), Gary Peters (D-MI), and Marco Rubio (R-FL) in introducing S. Res. 90 which seeks to: (1) affirm the robustness of the economic relationship; (2) recognize that science and technology innovation present new frontiers for economic cooperation; (3) encourage the Administration to expand and regularize existing forums of economic dialogue with Israel; and (4) support the exploration of new agreements, including in the fields of energy, water, agriculture, medicine, neurotechnology and cybersecurity. U.S. Congressmen Ted Lieu (D-CA-33) and Ted Poe (R-TX-02) today introduced companion legislation to S. Res. 90 in the U.S. House of Representatives. ###
03.22.2017	03.22.17 Gardner Encourages Colorado Farmers and Ranchers to Seek Federal Disaster Relief Assistance Washington, D.C. – Following the recent wildfires that devastated farms in Northeast Colorado, Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the below statement reminding Colorado farmers and ranchers about the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) disaster assistance programs. “As someone who lives on the Eastern Plains, I will never forget our farmers and ranchers and we must continue to support them in good times and in bad.” said Gardner. “While Coloradans in Northeast Colorado continue to recover from the devastating fires, I wanted to remind those who have been affected to contact my office for assistance. We will support our farmers and ranchers as they navigate the federal bureaucracy and help them through this difficult time.” According to the USDA, “the Farm Service Agency (FSA) can assist farmers and ranchers who lost livestock, grazing land, fences or eligible trees, bushes and vines as a result of a natural disaster. FSA administers a suite of safety-net programs to help producers recover from eligible losses, including the Livestock Indemnity Program, the Emergency Assistance for Livestock, Honeybees, and Farm-Raised Fish Program, and the Tree Assistance Program. Detailed information on all of these disaster assistance programs can be found online at:www.fsa.usda.gov/disaster. “In addition, the FSA Emergency Conservation Program provides funding and technical assistance for farmers and ranchers to rehabilitate farmland damaged by natural disasters. Producers located in counties that receive a primary or contiguous disaster designation are eligible for low-interest emergency loans to help them recover from production and physical losses. Compensation is also available to producers who purchased coverage through the Noninsured Crop Disaster Assistance Program, which protects non-insurable crops (including native grass for grazing) against natural disasters that result in lower yields, crop losses or prevented planting.” For those who need help navigating the federal bureaucracy, please email Farm_Assistance@gardner.senate.gov. Coloradans can also contact their local USDA Service Center by going tohttp://offices.usda.gov. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
03.21.2017	03.21.17 President Trump Signs Gardner NASA Provisions into Law Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), a member of the Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee, today released the below statement following President Trump signing the NASA Transition Authorization Act into law, which included two Gardner-authored provisions. Gardner’s provisions in the NASA Transition Authorization Act include an amendment requiring NASA to develop a plan to reach Mars that includes specific timelines and benchmarks, which will allow Congress to hold the agency accountable and provide proper oversight. A second Gardner amendment authorizes NASA to consider satellite servicing options for future programs, which encourages NASA to examine the possibility of servicing and refurbishing existing satellites to extend their lifespan and capabilities. “Colorado’s aerospace industry is a major economic driver and employs thousands of Coloradans throughout the Centennial state,” said Gardner. “I’m thrilled this legislation was signed into law and includes a provision I authored that requires NASA to develop a timeline for a manned mission to Mars, and I look forward to seeing Coloradans contribute to the mission’s ultimate success.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
03.20.2017	03.20.17 Gardner Introduces Judge Neil Gorsuch, Supreme Court Nominee, at Confirmation Hearing Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today introduced Judge Neil Gorsuch to the Judiciary Committee at his United States Supreme Court confirmation hearing. Click here to view Senator Gardner’s remarks. Remarks as prepared for delivery: Chairman Grassley, Ranking Member Feinstein, I would like to begin by thanking you for your leadership and all the work you do on this committee. Today, it’s with great pleasure that I introduce along with my colleague and fellow Centennial state senator Michael Bennet, and share my strong support for, our outstanding Supreme Court nominee, Judge Neil Gorsuch. If you’ve ever had the privilege of visiting Confluence Park in Denver, you’ll notice a plaque bearing a poem by Colorado Poet Laureate Thomas Hornsby Ferril. It’s a poem known as Two Rivers, describing the settlement of the West: “I wasn’t here, yet I remember them, That first night long ago, those wagon people Who pushed aside enough of the cottonwoods To build our city where the blueness rested.” Where the optimistic blueness of our Colorado skies rests against the mountains and the plains, we are reminded about how incredibly diverse our great nation is—its people and its geography. Judge Gorsuch’s nomination helps recognize that indeed there are highly qualified jurists west of the Mississippi River. Judge Gorsuch is a fourth-generation Coloradan, skier, fly fisher, serving on a court that represents 20 percent of our nation’s land mass. Once confirmed, Mr. Gorsuch will join Justice Byron White and be only the second Coloradan to have served on the U.S. Supreme Court. Should he be confirmed, Judge Gorsuch will make history as he represents the first Generation X justice of the United States Supreme Court, the emerging generation of American leadership. Judge Gorsuch was confirmed to the 10th Circuit unanimously by voice vote in 2006. Eleven years ago, Senator Graham presided over an empty committee dais as Neil Gorsuch faced confirmation. What a difference a court makes! But when you look at his record, his writing, his statements, it’s easy to see why Judge Gorsuch has such overwhelming appeal. Judge Gorsuch is not an ideologue. He’s a mainstream jurist who follows the law as written and doesn’t try to supplant it with his own personal policy preferences. As he said, “Personal politics or policy preferences have no useful role in judging; regular and healthy doses of self-skepticism and humility about one’s own abilities and conclusions always do.” Judge Gorsuch is not an activist judge, but rather a faithful adherent to and ardent defender of our Constitution. Judge Gorsuch recognizes the judiciary is not the place for social or constitutional experimentation, and that efforts to engage in such experimentation delegitimize the Court. As he said, “This overweening addiction to the courtroom as the place to debate social policy is bad for the country and bad for the judiciary . . . . As a society, we lose the benefit of the give-and-take of the political process and the flexibility of social experimentation that only the elected branches can provide.” Judge Gorsuch has a deep appreciation and respect for the constitutional principle of federalism and the separation of powers prescribed by our Founding Fathers. As he stated, “A firm and independent judiciary is critical to a well-functioning democracy.” Judge Gorsuch understands the advantage of democratic institutions and the special authority and legitimacy that come from the consent of the governed. As he said, “Judges must allow the elected branches of government to flourish and citizens, through their elected representatives, to make laws appropriate to the facts and circumstances of the day.” Judge Gorsuch appreciates the rule of law and respects the considered judgment of those who came before him. As he said, “A good judge will seek to honor precedent and strive to avoid its disparagement or displacement.” It’s this appropriate temperament, this fidelity to the Constitution, this remarkable humility that has made Judge Gorsuch a consensus pick among Colorado’s diverse legal and legislative communities. Former Colorado Senator, Democrat Ken Salazar, in praising Judge Gorsuch’s temperament, said during his circuit court confirmation, “[A] judicial nominee should have a demonstrated dedication to fairness, impartiality, precedent, and the avoidance of judicial activism—from both the left and the right. I believe that Mr. Gorsuch meets this very high test . . . .” Jim Lyons, a prominent lawyer and former advisor to President Bill Clinton, said, “Judge Gorsuch’s intellect, energy and deep regard for the Constitution are well known to those of us who have worked with him and have seen first-hand his commitment to basic principles. Above all, this independence, fairness and impartiality are the hallmarks of his career and his well-earned reputation.” Colorado’s former Democratic Governor Bill Ritter and former Republican Attorney General John Suthers jointly said: “It is time to use this confirmation process to examine and exalt the characteristics of a judge who demonstrates that he or she is scholarly, compassionate, committed to the law, and will function as part of a truly independent, apolitical judiciary. Judge Gorsuch fits that bill.” According to the Denver Post, Marcy Glenn, a Denver attorney and Democrat, recalls two cases before Gorsuch in which she represented underdogs. “He issued a decision that most certainly focused on the little guy,” Glenn said. Judge Gorsuch has a consistent record of applying the law fairly and his reputation among his peers and lawmakers is evidence of it. For all these reasons cited today, I’m certain Judge Gorsuch will make Colorado proud, and that his opinions will have a positive impact on this country for generations to come. I look forward to Judge Gorsuch receiving a fair hearing and, after that, to working with my distinguished colleagues on both sides of the aisle to expeditiously confirm his nomination. Thomas Hornsby Ferril wrote another poem—this one memorialized in a mural on the walls of the Colorado Capitol rotunda. It ends with these words: “Beyond the sundown is tomorrow’s wisdom. Today is going to be long, long ago.” The wisdom of Neil Gorsuch, guardian of the Constitution, will serve our nation well for generations to come. Thank you. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
03.17.2017	03.17.17 ***MEDIA ADVISORY*** Gardner to Introduce Judge Neil Gorsuch, Supreme Court Nominee, at Confirmation Hearing Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today announced that he will introduce Judge Neil Gorsuch when he appears before the Judiciary Committee for a hearing on his nomination to the U.S. Supreme Court. It is customary for home-state Senators to introduce a nominee to the Committee at the outset of his or her confirmation hearing. “I am honored to introduce Supreme Court Nominee Judge Neil Gorsuch before the Judiciary Committee at the beginning of his confirmation hearing,” said Gardner. “A fellow Coloradan, Judge Gorsuch is an exceptional jurist who will bring a Western perspective to the Supreme Court. I enthusiastically support his nomination and I look forward to introducing him at his upcoming hearing.” During Gorsuch’s 2006 confirmation process to the Tenth Circuit, Colorado’s senators praised Neil Gorsuch on the Senate floor: Senator Wayne Allard said, “From my conversations with Mr. Gorsuch, I am certain he recognizes the proper role of the judiciary . . . I believe Mr. Gorsuch is temperamentally and intellectually inclined to stick to the facts and the law in cases that would come before him and that he would refrain from legislating from the bench.” Senator Ken Salazar added, “[A] judicial nominee should have a demonstrated dedication to fairness, impartiality, precedent, and the avoidance of judicial activism—from both the left and the right. I believe that Mr. Gorsuch meets this very high test—and I believe he will make a fine addition to the Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals.” Who: U.S. Senator Cory Gardner and Judge Neil Gorsuch What: Gardner Introduces Judge Neil Gorsuch to the Senate Judiciary Committee When: Monday, March 20, 2017, 11:00 a.m. EST (time is subject to change) Where: Hart Senate Office Building 216 Live Link: https://www.judiciary.senate.gov/meetings/nomination-of-the-honorable-neil-m-gor ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
03.16.2017	03.16.17 Gardner Announces EPA Payments to Colorado Communities Impacted by Gold King Mine Spill Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is awarding a total of $54,275.40 to Colorado entities “for payroll, fringe, travel and indirect costs” associated with the Gold King Mine spill. According to the EPA, the Southern Ute Indian Tribe will receive $812.49, the city of Durango will receive $1,072.63, the San Juan Basin Health Department will receive $13,611.22, and La Plata County will receive $38,779.06. In December, Gardner, along with Congressman Scott Tipton (CO-3), sent a letter to EPA Administrator McCarthy regarding response cost reimbursements associated with the Gold King Mine spill. In the letter they wrote, “Earlier this month, EPA sent final decision letters indicating that the agency has no intention of making further response cost reimbursements. This is unacceptable, and inconsistent with your commitment to take full responsibility to affected states, local and tribal governments, and communities, and contrary to the newly enacted WIIN Act.” Today’s payments are a direct result of a Gardner-authored provision, Section 5004 of the Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation Act (WIIN Act), that requires the EPA to fully reimburse all state, local, and tribal government for response costs, regardless of the arbitrary deadline the Obama Administration’s EPA imposed on such payments. “Within a month of Administrator Pruitt being confirmed to lead the EPA, he is taking the first steps to live up to his commitment to the people of Colorado,” said Gardner. “I applaud this decision to further pay out the Tribe and local governments in an effort to make Colorado whole from the EPA-born Gold King Mine spill.” Last week, Gardner sent a letter to EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt inviting him to visit Southwest Colorado to hear from Coloradans regarding the Gold King Mine spill. Recently, Gardner spoke on the Senate floor about the Gold King Mine spill and released a statement following his vote to confirm Administrator Pruitt highlighting Pruitt’s commitment to fully compensate those affected. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
03.16.2017	03.16.17 Gardner, Lee Lead Effort to Reduce Government Regulations Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Senator Mike Lee (R-UT) introduced the Reducing Excessive Government (REG) Act, legislation that would require any increase in the debt limit approved by Congress and the President be accompanied by a proportional reduction in regulatory burden for every new dollar of debt. Last week, Treasury Secretary Mnuchin asked Congress to raise the federal debt ceiling so the United States would not default on its obligations. Mnuchin also notified Congress that the Treasury Department will be taking “extraordinary measures” starting today, March 16, to avoid default. “After eight years of unchecked spending, it’s time to institute real reforms that will help get our fiscal house in order,” said Gardner. “As we once again consider raising the federal debt ceiling, we must find ways to eliminate burdensome regulations that hinder economic growth and further impair our nation’s solvency. American small businesses and entrepreneurs know what it takes to create jobs and grow the economy, and it is up to Congress to get Washington out of the way and allow them to succeed. The REG Act is an innovative approach that will allow for commonsense regulatory reform and I’m proud to work with Senator Lee on this important effort.” “Any time Congress decides to raise the debt ceiling, substantive policy changes need to be made that would affect the long-term trajectory of the country,” said Lee. "This bill would require a serious evaluation of our regulatory policy any time the debt ceiling is raised. It would give Congress the power and regular opportunity to lift regulatory burdens on the public that hurt innovation and growth.” In the event of a temporary suspension of the debt limit, the REG Act would require the Secretary of the Treasury to submit an estimate to Congress for the amount of new debt which would be incurred during that suspension. If the debt limit were to be raised by a set amount rather than suspended, a proportional reduction of at least 15 percent would apply to that set amount. Additionally, the REG Act requires federal agencies to provide Congress with a report, certified by the Government Accountability Office, of regulations with a cost to the United States’ economy of over $100 million. Congress would be required to vote on the removal of an amount of regulatory burden equal to at least 15 percent of the amount of new debt. The President would then sign that removal legislation into law. If Congress fails to pass the removal of regulatory burden or the President fails to sign it, the debt limit would snap back to current levels plus any debt acquired since passage of legislation to increase or suspend the debt limit. ###
03.16.2017	03.16.17 Gardner Meets with Tribal Leaders at the White House Regarding Gorsuch Nomination Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner released the below statement following his meeting yesterday at the White House with tribal leaders regarding Neil Gorsuch’s nomination to the United States Supreme Court. “I was honored to sit down with tribal leaders to discuss Judge Gorsuch’s nomination to the Supreme Court,” said Gardner. “Judge Gorsuch is a mainstream jurist who is well qualified to fill this role and has a deep understanding of tribal sovereignty issues. Gorsuch’s Western perspective will benefit our native tribes and all Americans for generations to come.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
03.15.2017	03.15.17 Gardner, Bennet, Tipton Introduce Native American Indian Education Act Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Senator Michael Bennet (D-CO) along with Representative Scott Tipton (CO-03) today introduced the Native American Indian Education Act, legislation that would provide relief to state education budgets and protect tuition-free higher education for Native Americans. States like Colorado facing severe budget constraints are struggling to fulfill the requirement to provide tuition-free higher education opportunities for Native American Indian students because the cost of funding their education is not shared by the students’ home-states. Instead, the state that houses the educational institution is solely responsible for the students’ tuition bill. The Native American Indian Education Act addresses existing federal-state agreements that require states to finance Native American’s tuition at certain universities in perpetuity through a tuition waiver program. One such agreement, at Fort Lewis College in Durango, Colorado, covered just a few dozen students when it was originally struck in 1910. Today, over 1,123 American Indian and Alaska native students from over 162 tribes nationwide attend Fort Lewis College, and the state of Colorado is bearing much of the cost of tuition waivers and other expenses, which exceed approximately $16 million per year. This legislation preserves tuition-free higher education for Native American Indian students by updating the tuition wavier program to reflect the current day reality of educational costs and make the federal-state arrangement as equitable as it was originally intended. It also directs the Department of Education to cover the tuition of out-of-state students so that that the cost of educating Native American and Alaska natives from across the country does not fall solely on individual states. The federal government can continue to live up to its commitment to provide educational opportunities to Native American Indian students. “Colorado’s Fort Lewis College and higher education institutions across the country provide world-class educations to both Native and non-Native students,” said Gardner. “States facing difficult fiscal environments, however, are struggling to foot the tuition bill for out-of-state Native American Indian students to whom the federal government promised tuition-free higher education nearly a century ago. The Native American Indian Education Act ensures that the federal government continues to live up to its commitment and extends much-needed budgetary relief to states like Colorado. I’m proud to work with Senator Bennet and Representative Tipton on this commonsense, bipartisan solution that makes Native American education a national priority.” “Education is a fundamental promise to all Americans,” Bennet said. “In our changing economy, we must ensure everyone has access to higher education. This program is crucial for Native American students who otherwise may not be able to afford college. This bill would make it financially viable for schools, like Fort Lewis College in Colorado, to continue to provide waivers that make these opportunities possible.” “It is vital that the federal government fully live up to our nation’s treaty obligations with Native American Indians,” said Tipton. “For years, the weight of an unfunded federal mandate to provide higher education opportunities for Native American Indian students has created uncertainty for the Native American Tuition Waiver Programs at Fort Lewis College. This has put a constantly-increasing strain on the state of Colorado’s budget. Our legislation addresses this issue by authorizing the federal government to allocate funds to meet its treaty obligations and ensure that many talented and bright Native American Indian students have the opportunity to get a quality education.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
03.15.2017	03.15.17 Gardner Votes to Confirm Dan Coats as Director of National Intelligence Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statement after voting in favor of confirming former Senator Dan Coats as Director of National Intelligence. “I have had the opportunity to see first-hand Senator Coats’ dedication to our country and sharp focus on defense and intelligence issues while serving with him in the United States Senate,” said Gardner. “A former veteran and member of the Armed Services and Intelligence Committees, Senator Coats has a keen understanding of the threats this country faces at home and abroad. In his new role, Senator Coats will coordinate our intelligence efforts across multiple agencies and I am confident in his ability and commitment to keep Americans safe.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
03.14.2017	03.14.17 Gardner Announces $1.1 Million FEMA Grant for Larimer County 2013 Flood Response Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has awarded Larimer County $1,131,522.92 to repair roads and bridges that were damaged during the September 2013 floods. “The 2013 floods took a devastating toll on Larimer County, but the community has come together and rebuilt much of what was lost,” said Gardner. “It is important to provide the necessary resources for the County to continue to repair critical infrastructure and best serve the community. One of my priorities in the Senate is to support local and state disaster response efforts and I’m thankful FEMA has provided these resources to Colorado.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
03.09.2017	03.09.17 Gardner Invites EPA Administrator Pruitt to Southwest Colorado to Discuss Gold King Mine Spill Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today sent a letter to Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Scott Pruitt inviting him to visit Southwest Colorado to hear from Coloradans regarding the Gold King Mine spill. Recently, Gardner spoke on the Senate floor about the Gold King Mine spill and released a statement following his vote to confirm Administrator Pruitt highlighting Pruitt’s commitment to fully compensate those affected. In the letter, Gardner wrote, “We share the goal of making communities whole from this EPA-born spill. I believe you visiting Southwest Colorado and the EPA conducting a public forum would serve as a great opportunity to hear from these communities directly.” The letter reads in full: Dear Administrator Pruitt: Thank you for the commitment during your Senate confirmation process that you will make sure those affected in Colorado by the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) Gold King Mine spill are compensated. I write today to ask that you visit the area and for the Administration to conduct public meetings in Southwest Colorado in order to hear from communities that were impacted by the spill in August 2015. On August 5, 2015, the EPA spilled approximately three million gallons of toxic waste into Cement Creek and the Animas River in Colorado, which flowed downstream through New Mexico, Utah, the Southern Ute Indian Reservation, and the Navajo Nation. EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy stated that the EPA took full responsibility for the disaster, but refused to fully reimburse the affected states, local and tribal governments for response costs, which is contrary to Section 5004 of the Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation Act passed last Congress. In January, the EPA also denied the 73 personal injury and economic and business loss claims filed under the Federal Tort Claims Act regarding the spill. We share the goal of making communities whole from this EPA-born spill. I believe you visiting Southwest Colorado and the EPA conducting a public forum would serve as a great opportunity to hear from these communities directly. Thank you for your consideration and I look forward to your prompt response. Sincerely, ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Chairman of the Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
03.08.2017	03.08.17 ICYMI: Gardner Welcomes Deployment of Missile Defense System to Counter North Korean Aggression Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) spoke about the deployment of the Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) system in South Korea. After North Korea fired multiple missiles into the Sea of Japan on March 5, 2017, Gardner released a statement condemning Pyongyang and requested a full briefing from the Administration on policies to counter North Korean aggression. Gardner repeatedly called on the Obama Administration to accelerate the deployment of THAAD, and in February urged the Trump Administration to “expedite the placement of THAAD in South Korea to protect our allies and the tens of thousands of American troops in the region.” As Chairman of the Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy, Gardner authored the North Korea Sanctions Policy and Enhancement Act. Signed into law by President Obama in February of 2016, the legislation marked the first time Congress imposed stand-alone mandatory sanctions on North Korea. Click here to view Senator Gardner’s remarks. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Chairman of the Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
03.07.2017	03.07.17 Gardner Rejects Washington’s One-Size-Fits-All Approach to Land Management Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statement following his vote of disapproval of the Bureau of Land Management’s (BLM) Planning 2.0 Rule: “The final BLM Planning 2.0 Rule is an example of Washington’s failed one-size-fits-all approach to policymaking and highlights how little Washington bureaucrats understand the way of the West. My goal has always been to bring more of Colorado to Washington and less Washington to Colorado, and I supported repealing this regulation because it begins to move this country away from a ‘Washington-knows-best’ mentality. I remain open to working with my colleagues from both parties, along with Secretary Zinke, to improve land management and update policies at the BLM that provide more flexibility to Colorado and the West.” Click here to view Senator Gardner’s remarks on the Senate floor. Remarks as prepared for delivery: Mr. President, I rise today to speak on the Bureau of Land Management’s Planning 2.0 Rule, and my support for using the Congressional Review Act for this Rule. The BLM administers 245 million acres of public land, located primarily in the 12 Western States. The final BLM Planning 2.0 Rule is an example of how little Washington bureaucrats understand the way of the West and how a one-size fits all approach to federal policymaking does not work for Western States. In fact, it is the promulgation of this Rule that I began my call to relocate the BLM headquarters to the West. Putting BLM headquarters in the West, like Grand Junction, Colorado, would absolutely result in better policies that work on the ground for our Governors, our county commissioners, our farmers, cattlemen, ranchers, energy producers, sportsmen and recreationalists. I hope that we can move this country away from a ‘Washington knows best’ mentality and that is exactly what the Congressional Review Act would do, and that is why I intend to support using this tool on the BLM Planning 2.0 Rule. As it stands, I cannot allow this Rule to move forward. I have committed to my constituents that I will always have a goal to put more Colorado in Washington versus Washington in Colorado. A county commissioner in Western Colorado – from Dolores, Garfield, Grand, Gunnison, Hinsdale, Jackson, Mesa, Moffat, Montezuma, Montrose or Rio Blanco County – should have more say in decisions impacting their backyard on BLM lands than someone sitting behind a desk in New York City. I firmly believe Colorado state and local leaders and local users should have a strong voice on local land management decisions. I also firmly believe in managing our public lands under the multiple use philosophy, which promotes recreation, grazing, and energy development with a balanced approach. If the Congressional Review Act on the BLM Planning 2.0 Rule is signed into law, there is still an opportunity to improve management and update policies at the BLM. I have told the many recreationalists and sportsmen in Colorado that I am open to working with Democratic colleagues and Secretary Zinke at the Department of the Interior on how we can move forward with land management decisions and land use plans. There are updates and modifications that can be achieved, but they should have all stakeholder input. Working with some land users cannot be at the expense of others and right now our cattlemen, farmers, ranchers, and county commissioners have severe concerns with BLM Planning 2.0 and feel as though they did not have a voice in this Rule. Mr. President, we can do better as elected officials and give them that voice moving forward – we move forward together. That is why I intend to support the Congressional Review Act on the BLM Planning 2.0 Rule. With that, Mr. President, I yield the floor. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Chairman of the Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
03.06.2017	03.06.17 GOP Senators Say House Health Care Draft Lacks Key Protections for Medicaid Expansion Population Senators Gardner, Portman, Capito, & Murkowski Outline Need to Protect Medicaid Expansion Recipients, Especially Those With Opioid and Mental Health Treatment WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO), Rob Portman (R-OH), Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV), and Lisa Murkowski (R-AK) sent a letter to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) outlining concerns that the February 10th draft health care plan from the House does not adequately protect individuals and families in Medicaid expansion programs or provide necessary flexibility for states. In the letter, the senators write: “While we support efforts to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act and make structural reforms to the Medicaid program, we are concerned that the February 10th draft proposal from the House of Representatives does not provide stability and certainty for individuals and families in Medicaid expansion programs or the necessary flexibility for states.” The full letter is below: Dear Majority Leader McConnell, As you know, Medicaid covers more than 72 million Americans and is the core of the health care safety net for individuals across the country. The Affordable Care Act destabilized the private insurance market and created an unsustainable path for both the states and the federal government in Medicaid. While we support efforts to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act and make structural reforms to the Medicaid program, we are concerned that the February 10th draft proposal from the House of Representatives does not provide stability and certainty for individuals and families in Medicaid expansion programs or the necessary flexibility for states. We are concerned that any poorly implemented or poorly timed change in the current funding structure in Medicaid could result in a reduction in access to life-saving health care services. The Medicaid population includes a wide range of beneficiaries, many of which cycle on and off Medicaid due to frequent changes in income, family situations, and living environments. The Department of Health and Human Services reports that nearly one-third of individuals covered under the Medicaid expansion have a mental health or substance use disorder. As the largest payer of mental health and substance use services in the United States, it is critical that any health care replacement provide states with a stable transition period and the opportunity to gradually phase-in their populations to any new Medicaid financing structure. We believe Medicaid needs to be reformed, but reform should not come at the cost of disruption in access to health care for our country’s most vulnerable and sickest individuals. Any changes made to how Medicaid is financed through the state and federal governments should be coupled with significant new flexibility so they can efficiently and effectively manage their Medicaid programs to best meet their own needs. We also believe a gradual transition is needed to ensure states have the time to successfully implement these new changes. The Affordable Care Act is not working for states or the federal government and must be repealed and replaced with a plan that reforms Medicaid and protects individuals and their families over the long term. However, the February 10th draft proposal from the House does not meet the test of stability for individuals currently enrolled in the program and we will not support a plan that does not include stability for Medicaid expansion populations or flexibility for states. Sincerely, ###
03.05.2017	03.05.17 Gardner Statement on North Korea Missile Launches WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statement after reports that North Korea fired multiple projectiles into the Sea of Japan: “North Korea’s reported launch of multiple missiles comes approximately one month after the regime claimed it successfully tested a new type of ballistic missile. Pyongyang’s growing aggression must be met with a tough policy response from the United States, including new sanctions, show-of-force exercises in the region and the expedited deployment of the Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) system. It is also important that we strengthen our alliances in the region and reassure our allies South Korea and Japan that the United States unequivocally stands with them against the North Korean threat. I look forward to seeing immediate and determined actions from the Trump Administration and will be asking for a full briefing outlining the actions it will take to stop the madman in Pyongyang." ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
03.02.2017	03.02.17 Bipartisan, Bicameral Group Introduces Bill to Help States Combat Cyber Threat Washington, DC – U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Mark Warner (D-VA), founders of the Senate Cybersecurity Caucus, along with Representatives Derek Kilmer (D-WA) and Barbara Comstock (R-VA) introduced bipartisan, bicameral legislation to help state, local, and tribal governments more effectively counter cyber threats. The State Cyber Resiliency Act would set up a cybersecurity grant program that would provide resources for states to develop and implement effective cyber resiliency plans. This includes efforts to identify, detect, protect, respond, and recover from cyber threats. It also encourages states to invest in the cybersecurity workforce. According to a 2015 Ponemon Institute study, 50 percent of state and local governments faced six to 25 cyber breaches in the past 24 months. In the past year, hackers also breached more than 200,000 personal voter records in Illinois and Arizona. Most states use less than two percent of their IT budget on cybersecurity. “It’s critical that our state and local governments invest in cyber preparedness and training, and I’m proud to work with Senator Warner and Representatives Kilmer and Comstock to create a grant program to help our communities with this effort,” said Gardner. “Colorado is at the forefront of our nation’s cybersecurity efforts and home to the National Cybersecurity Center in Colorado Springs. As the threat of cyber warfare intensifies, it’s important that local governments are properly prepared to deter and protect themselves from cyber-attacks.” “One of the fastest growing threats to our country is the danger posed by cyberattacks. From data breaches at retailers like Target and Home Depot to ransomware attacks on cities’ transportation networks, cyberattacks pose a significant threat,” said Warner. “Despite the velocity of the threat, 80% of states lack funding to develop sufficient cybersecurity. I’m proud to partner with Reps. Kilmer and Comstock, and Sen. Gardner, who co-chairs with me the Senate Cybersecurity Caucus, to provide grants to state and local jurisdictions so they are better prepared to take on the emerging challenges in the cyber domain.” “Cyber-attacks are a threat to our communities,” said Kilmer. “Too often we hear stories of personal records being compromised by hackers punching holes in our cyber defenses. It’s time we had better protection for consumers, workers, businesses, and governments. I’m proud to join with my colleagues to introduce a plan that gives states more tools to fight back against these attacks and encourage the continued growth of a talented cyber workforce in our region and across the nation.” “As Chairwoman of the Research and Technology Subcommittee, cybersecurity has been a focus of mine since the beginning of my Chairwomanship,” said Comstock. “I hear stories everyday where personal information of Americans is compromised and used by cyberterrorists. Cybersecurity has become even more critical to our nation as government agencies and private companies rely on technologies that are susceptible to hacking. The resources in the State Cyber Resiliency Act will give states the means necessary to protect their citizens from cyberattacks like those at OPM and IRS so that personal information remains private.” "We are proud to support Senator Gardner's proposed legislation to direct more funding to cybersecurity," said Ed Rios, CEO of the National Cybersecurity Center based in Colorado Springs. "The collaborative work with Senator Warner is exactly what we need to protect our state and country against cyber threats." "This legislation represents a great partnership between Washington, the states, and local governments to address a very serious issue. The Colorado Municipal League is proud to support Senator Gardner's efforts," stated Sam Mamet, Colorado Municipal League Executive Director. ###
03.02.2017	03.02.17 Gardner Votes to Confirm Dr. Ben Carson as Secretary of Housing and Urban Development WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statement after voting in favor of confirming Dr. Ben Carson as Secretary of Housing and Urban Development: “Dr. Ben Carson’s commitment to work toward expanding affordable housing and finding solutions to assist those living in impoverished communities will serve our country well as he enters his new role as Secretary of Housing and Urban Development. I look forward to working with him to address these challenges and helping all Coloradans and Americans succeed.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
03.01.2017	03.01.17 Gardner, Bennet, Tipton Applaud FCC Approval of La Plata County Request for Denver TV Washington, DC – U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Michael Bennet (D-CO) along with Congressman Scott Tipton (CO-03) today applauded the Federal Communications Commission’s (FCC) approval of La Plata County’s petition for inclusion into the Denver television market for satellite television. The Colorado lawmakers have long advocated on behalf of Southwest Colorado to the FCC, most recently sending a letter urging the FCC to approve the petition. The county’s market modification petition requested the FCC permanently modify the Denver local television market to include La Plata County, which would allow La Plata County satellite subscribers to access Denver broadcast television. Currently, La Plata and Montezuma counties receive television broadcasts from New Mexico rather than Colorado, and thus do not receive local news, sports, and emergency information. “I applaud the FCC’s decision to approve La Plata County’s request to access Denver TV,” said Senator Gardner. “Since my time in the House of Representatives, I have worked with members of both parties and local officials to bring Colorado TV to the southwest and resolve the issue. Today’s announcement is the result of a bipartisan, locally-driven effort, and it’s welcome news for many people in Colorado who have waited too long for access to the Denver broadcast market.” “This is common sense. Coloradans should have access to Colorado news, sports, and emergency information,” Senator Bennet said. “Today’s announcement reflects the hard work and collaboration of our community leaders, satellite providers, and broadcasters. We will continue to work with all parties to provide Denver television to the Four Corners region once and for all.” “I am pleased to hear that the FCC has approved La Plata County’ s request to access the Denver TV market. I have held many meetings with the FCC and broadcasters to determine how we can bring Colorado broadcasts to the Four Corners, and I applaud the FCC, my congressional colleagues, and the communities in southwestern Colorado for working to make this happen,” said Congressman Scott Tipton. ###
02.28.2017	02.28.17 Gardner Statement on President Trump’s Address to Congress Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statement following President Donald Trump’s address to a joint session of Congress: “Tonight, President Trump outlined his plan to tackle our country’s challenges. I am encouraged that he prioritized strengthening our economy and boosting job creation as well as addressing our broken health care system. Equally as important, the President highlighted the increasingly complex security threats we’re facing around the globe, including Iran and ISIS. After eight years of a failed foreign policy that led to emboldened regimes and instability in the Middle East, it’s critical that the United States stands up to its adversaries and stands by its allies. “While headlines may reflect polarization, I remain convinced that more unites us than divides us. Our shared love and respect for democracy continues to make America the greatest nation on earth. Our country is still one that strives to inspire, innovate, invent, and above all – promote and create opportunities. I’m committed to working with this Administration on behalf of Coloradans to strengthen our country and make it easier for every American to succeed.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
02.28.2017	02.28.17 Gardner Statement on Executive Order to Review WOTUS Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statement after President Trump signed an executive order directing the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to review the Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rule. Developed by the EPA and the Army Corps of Engineers, WOTUS redefines and expands waters that are subject to Clean Water Act regulations, and has the potential to impact more than a million acres and thousands of stream miles in Colorado. “I applaud President Trump’s executive order directing the EPA to review WOTUS, a glaring example of the federal government’s overreach. The WOTUS rule unfairly imposes burdensome red tape and unnecessary costs on Colorado’s farmers and ranchers at a time when the agriculture community is facing significant challenges and barriers to success. Today’s executive action is a step forward toward protecting the community from an unconstitutional takeover of our local waterways, and providing relief and certainty to the industry.” Gardner has been a consistent opponent of the WOTUS rule. He denounced the final WOTUS Rule when it was revealed in May of 2015 and applauded the decision by Federal Judge Ralph Erickson to halt the rule’s implementation in 13 states. In September of 2015, he signed on as a cosponsor of the resolution of disapproval authored by Senator Ernst (R-IA), which later passed the Senate with Gardner’s support. When the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals halted implementation of WOTUS nationwide in October of 2015, Gardner called it “a victory for agriculture, rural communities, and all Coloradans.” In November of 2015, he voted in favor of the Federal Water Quality Protection Act, which would have forced the Environmental Protection Agency and Army Corps of Engineers to re-write the WOTUS rule with much stronger state and agricultural protections as well as more input from local communities. In January of 2016, Gardner voted to override the President’s veto of legislation that would repeal WOTUS, and in April of 2016 he voted in favor of an amendment to the Senate Energy and Water Development appropriations bill that prevents the Army Corps of Engineers from using funding to enforce the Waters of the United States (WOTUS) regulation. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
02.28.2017	02.28.17 Gardner Announces $1 Million Superfund Grant for Summitville Mine DENVER – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced the state of Colorado will receive $1 million for the Summitville Mine superfund site. According to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), the funding is to be used specifically for water treatment at the site. “I’m pleased the EPA awarded funding for the Summitville Mine superfund site,” said Gardner. “This funding will be used for water treatment and is critical to the continued clean-up at the Summitville Mine. I’m committed to ensuring Colorado receives the proper support from the federal government to make sure Colorado’s pristine environment is cared for.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
02.27.2017	02.27.17 Gardner, Bennet, Hickenlooper invite one of the country’s most iconic conventions to Colorado DENVER — Monday, Feb. 27, 2017 — Senators Cory Gardner and Michael Bennet and Governor John Hickenlooper today sent a joint letter to the Outdoor Retailer Show to encourage its consideration of Colorado as its new home for the popular recreation convention. In the letter, Colorado’s senior leadership states that the state is the perfect new location for the Outdoor Retailer show given Colorado’s bipartisan commitment to maintaining and protecting public lands. “Colorado is unmatched in the opportunities to connect with outdoor enthusiasts,” said Gov. Hickenlooper. “We truly believe the show will not only find a new awesome home here but will also land new audiences.” Senator Gardner echoed that Colorado’s outdoor recreation industry makes this opportunity a win-win for both the state and the show. “Colorado’s commitment to public lands coupled with its booming outdoor recreation industry makes it the premiere location for the Outdoor Retailer show,” said Gardner. “I’m thrilled to support Colorado’s bid to host this event and showcase our state’s natural beauty.” Senator Bennet added that the outdoor industry’s values are aligned with those of Colorado. “As Coloradans, we value and protect our public lands because we recognize the enormous influence they have on our quality of life and our outdoor economy,” said Bennet. “The abundance, accessibility, and beauty of public lands in our state makes Colorado a perfect destination for the Outdoor Retailer show.” The Outdoor Retailer Show announced earlier this month that it is looking for a new host state. Colorado today submitted the letter to the show’s organizer, Emerald Expositions, indicating that the State plans to respond to the company’s request for proposal (RFP). ###
02.23.2017	02.23.17 Gardner, Bipartisan Group of Senators Send Letter on War Crimes in Syria Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today joined Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Bob Corker (R-TN) and Ranking Member Ben Cardin (D-MD) in sending a letter to Secretary of State Rex Tillerson asking for an update on plans to demand accountability for war crimes and crimes against humanity during the Syrian civil war. The letter was also signed by Senators Todd Young (R-IN), Marco Rubio (R-FL), Bob Menendez (D-NJ), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), Chris Coons (D-DE), Tom Udall (D-NM), Chris Murphy (D-CT), Tim Kaine (D-VA), Edward J. Markey (D-MA), Jeff Merkley (D-OR), and Cory Booker (D-NJ). The letter reads in full: Dear Secretary Tillerson: The February 7, 2017, Amnesty International report “Human Slaughterhouse: Mass Hangings and Extermination at Saydnaya Prison, Syria” offers even more apparent evidence of the types of crimes committed by Bashar al-Assad’s regime in Syria. The report asserts that up to 13,000 people have been methodically executed at the Saydnaya Prison as part of a calculated campaign of extrajudicial execution authorized at the highest levels of the Syrian government. This report comes more than three years after the 2014 Syrian Detainee Report, also known as the “Caesar Report,” which extensively documented the systematic killing of more than 11,000 detainees. Taken together with credible, clear, and convincing previous reports of Assad’s actions – including the confirmed use of chemical weapons, the use of barrel bombs against noncombatants, as well as the use of torture and starvation against civilians – sufficient documentation exists to charge Bashar al-Assad with war crimes and crimes against humanity. He has lost legitimacy as Syria’s leader. Russia and Iran’s ongoing military operations in support of Assad make Russian and Iranian leaders complicit in Assad’s war crimes and crimes against humanity. Russia has repeatedly blocked collective action to respond to Assad’s crimes at the United Nations Security Council, to include vetoing an effort to stop the murder of innocent civilians in Aleppo. Russian forces themselves appear to have committed war crimes, such as the bombing of a humanitarian convoy on September 19, 2016. In light of Amnesty International’s report and the exhaustive documentation by Caesar and other courageous Syrians, we respectfully request that you work to ensure Assad, Russia, and Iran are made to answer for the war crimes and crimes against humanity committed in Syria. As you review U.S. policy toward Russia and participate in the Administration’s planning to defeat ISIS, Russia’s role in the tragic deaths of hundreds of thousands of Syrians must be considered. Russia must join the international community in seeking to hold Assad accountable, stop enabling the slaughter of the Syrian people, and undertake efforts to remove Iran-affiliated fighters from Syria. We also ask that you provide an update on the steps the Administration is taking to document war crimes and crimes against humanity committed in Syria, and planned U.S. support to the accountability process that must be part of a political agreement to end the war. We appreciate your attention to this urgent matter and look forward to your response. Sincerely,
02.23.2017	02.23.17 Gardner Meets with Coloradans Along the Front Range Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) spent yesterday meeting with constituents in Denver, Golden, and Fort Collins. At the Metropolitan State University of Denver, Gardner met with the Colorado Space Coalition to discuss ways to advance Colorado’s aerospace industry and create more jobs for Coloradans. Recently, the Senate approved two-Gardner authored provisions in the NASA Transition Authorization Act that will help bolster Colorado’s aerospace industry. Gardner also spoke to the Governor’s Forum on Colorado Agriculture. Gardner has been a leader in the Senate on agriculture and recently gave a speech on the Senate floor about the agriculture crisis in America and the importance of agriculture to Colorado. Gardner also met with the Colorado Health Care Association to hear their input on how best to reform our healthcare system. Additionally, Gardner met with MillerCoors and the National Association of Manufacturers where he received the National Association of Manufacturers’ Award for Manufacturing Legislative Excellence. At the event, he answered questions from MillerCoors employees and discussed ways to ensure there are additional manufacturing opportunities in Colorado. Next, Gardner spoke with the Fort Collins Chamber of Commerce about how to address burdensome regulations in order to grow the economy and boost job creation in Colorado. “Washington D.C. cannot operate in a vacuum, and that’s why I’m always eager to meet with Coloradans and gain their input on a variety of issues,” said Gardner. “My discussions with Coloradans on reforming our healthcare system, creating jobs in aerospace and manufacturing, helping our farmers and ranchers succeed, and reining in overreaching regulations provide me with important perspective, and help me bring more of Colorado to Washington. I’m fortunate to have had the opportunity to meet with so many different groups across the Front Range, and I look forward to continuing to meet with Coloradans in the days ahead.”
02.22.2017	02.22.17 Gardner Receives Award for Championing Manufacturing Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today received the National Association of Manufacturers (NAM) Award for Manufacturing Legislative Excellence at MillerCoors in Golden, CO. The award is given to Members of Congress who demonstrate an understanding of manufacturing’s role in our economy and whose records support the industry. “I’m pleased to receive the Manufacturing Legislative Excellence Award from MillerCoors, a Colorado institution,” said Gardner. “Manufacturing contributes billions of dollars to Colorado’s economy and employs over 140,000 people in our state. It’s important that manufacturers continue to grow, hire, and expand, and that’s why I remain committed to working to find legislative solutions that will revitalize the industry in addition to ways to maintain and attract new businesses to Colorado.” “Senator Gardner’s leadership and support have been invaluable in protecting our ability to brew, ship and sell our quality beers here in the Golden Valley," said Phil Savastano, MillerCoors Vice President of Golden Valley Operations. "We appreciate his work to protect jobs in the beer industry and throughout our supply chain from farm to retail." “Manufacturers in Colorado and across the country are changing lives for the better—through the jobs we create and the products we make. Manufacturing is about improving the human condition, one innovation at a time,” said NAM President and CEO Jay Timmons. “Senator Gardner is helping to make our success possible by standing with manufacturers when it matters and casting the right votes. Manufacturers employ over 12 million men and women in the U.S., who are making everything from lifesaving medicines to the most cutting edge technology. The strength of manufacturing in America is responsible for the success of America in the world. When manufacturing succeeds, America succeeds, so Senator Gardner’s consistent support for manufacturing means he is supporting a better future for all Americans.”
02.17.2017	02.17.17 Gardner Sends Letter to OMB Director Regarding Funding for Secure Rural Schools Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), along with bipartisan colleagues from the U.S. House of Representatives and U.S. Senate, sent a letter today to Office of Management and Budget Director Mick Mulvaney to encourage adequate funding for the Secure Rural Schools and Self-Determination (SRS) Program. The letter reads in full: Dear Director Mulvaney: As the Office of Management and Budget begins its work to set priorities for fiscal year 2018 and write the President’s budget request, we strongly encourage you to support adequate funding for the Secure Rural Schools and Self-Determination (SRS) program. SRS payments provide critical revenues to more than 775 rural counties and 4,400 schools throughout the country, impacting nine million students across 41 states. In many cases, these “forest counties” include massive swaths of public lands, particularly National Forest System lands, often consuming 65 to 90 percent of total land within their boundaries. Nearly 100 years ago, recognizing the key support these counties provide to our national forests, Congress passed legislation to specify that 25 percent of revenues from timber harvests on federal lands would be shared with affected counties for “the benefit of the public schools and public roads in county or counties in which national forests are situated.” Though helpful, massive reductions in timber production on federal forests over the last 30 years have dropped revenues by as much as 99 percent in some counties and over 70 percent nationwide. SRS was first enacted in 2000 to renew this 100-year-old revenue sharing promise in light of significant losses faced by forest counties as timber revenues declined. This promise is as relevant today as ever given these counties are still expected to provide essential services on their public lands. SRS expired on September 30, 2015, and it has not been reauthorized for FY16 or beyond. Forest counties and schools received their last authorized SRS payment in March 2016. Without SRS, existing revenue sharing payments are not sufficient to support the services these counties must provide, and counties are forced to choose between critical services for their citizens. Prevailing uncertainties about SRS make it nearly impossible for local governments to plan their annual budgets. The federal government has long recognized its obligation to these forest counties, and we are committed to working in Congress to provide these counties the resources they need to serve their populations. We ask that you do all that you can in FY18 and into the future to work with us in this effort. Thank you for your consideration of this request.
02.17.2017	02.17.17 Senate Approves Gardner Space-Related Provisions Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), a member of the Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee, today released the below statement following the Senate’s passage of the NASA Transition Authorization Act, which included two Gardner-authored provisions. Gardner’s provisions in the NASA Transition Authorization Act include an amendment requiring NASA to develop a plan to reach Mars that includes specific timelines and benchmarks, which will allow Congress to hold the agency accountable and provide proper oversight. A second Gardner amendment authorizes NASA to consider satellite servicing options for future programs, which encourages NASA to examine the possibility of servicing and refurbishing existing satellites to extend their lifespan and capabilities. “Aerospace plays a major role in Colorado’s economy, and this legislation will benefit the thousands of aerospace jobs in Colorado,” said Gardner. “Supporting a manned mission to Mars by requiring NASA to develop timelines and milestones is an important component in ensuring we see a successful mission. I’ll continue to use my position on the Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee to ensure space-related measures receive full consideration and advocate for policies that ensure Colorado and the United States remain the world’s leader in space exploration.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
02.17.2017	02.17.17 Gardner Votes to Confirm Scott Pruitt as EPA Administrator Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today voted to confirm Oklahoma Attorney General Scott Pruitt as Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator: “During his confirmation hearing, Attorney General Scott Pruitt demonstrated that he understands the importance of protecting the environment while also standing up to overbearing federal regulations, including the Waters of the United States rule. Additionally, I was pleased that he committed to review EPA’s decision to not process the personal injury and economic loss claims related to the Gold King Mine spill. I have had conversations with Mr. Pruitt about my sincere disappointment in the broken promises related to the EPA’s spill, specifically the EPA’s refusal to pay for lost property, lost economic opportunity, and lost business opportunity. Mr. Pruitt assured me he is going to make it right and work with me to make sure those injured and those that experienced economic loss are fully compensated. I’m confident that Coloradans have an ally in Mr. Pruitt, and that’s why I supported him.” Earlier today, Gardner spoke on the Senate floor about the EPA’s refusal to fully reimburse Coloradans for damages relating to the EPA-born Gold King Mine spill. Gardner’s remarks may be viewed here. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
02.17.2017	02.17.17 Gardner Speaks on Senate Floor About Gold King Mine Spill, Scott Pruitt Nomination Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Subcommittee on Energy, today spoke on the Senate floor about the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) refusal to fully reimburse Coloradans for damages relating to the EPA-born Gold King Mine spill. Gardner discussed a commitment from Attorney General Scott Pruitt, President Trump’s nominee to lead the EPA, to visit Colorado to assure Coloradans he will fulfill the promises that were broken under the Obama Administration. Click here to view Senator Gardner’s remarks. Rush Transcript: “Thank you Mr. President, I come to the floor today, I rise to speak on the nomination of Scott Pruitt to be administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, who I intend to support. “Over the past several weeks, we have heard a number of Senators come to the floor, colleagues come to the floor, and hour after hour of session, 24-hour sessions through the night, 1, 2, 3, 4 in the morning and beyond, to complain about this nominee or that nominee, to express their concern about this nominee or that nominee. “In fact, many times I think that the only reason there is opposition to the nominee, is that they disagree with the nominee is because it wasn't Hillary Clinton that made the nomination. We’ve heard countless people come to the floor today to talk about their opposition to the Trump Administration EPA. Now, I've got a picture here on the floor that shows the Obama EPA. “This is a river in Colorado, enjoyed by thousands of people each and every summer. This is a picture of that same river under the Obama EPA. This was caused when 800,000 pounds of mineral, of lead, of waste, excuse me not lead, but of other waste going into the river, because of a mishandled EPA project. This wasn't Scott Pruitt. This wasn't Donald Trump. This was the Obama EPA that did this, and I only wish that my colleagues who have come to the floor for the past several hours had shown similar outrage when the Obama EPA did this to Colorado, inflicted this kind of damage on people in Southwestern Colorado in the Gold King Mine spill. “You want to talk about protecting states? Why didn't we stand up and protect this river? “On August 5, 2015, the EPA caused this spill, they admit they caused this spill. Dumping three million gallons of toxic waste into Cement Creek and into the Animas River. “Most Americans remember seeing this river. Most Americans remember seeing pictures of what this river looked like across newspapers, across television stations in August of 2015. In fact, when I visited in South Korea, the President of South Korea asked me how is the river in Colorado that the EPA dumped toxic sludge into? “In fact, I saw this picture on the news just a couple days ago, somebody was using it to complain about the Trump EPA Administration. Somebody was using it to attack Scott Pruitt. But this picture had nothing to do with Scott Pruitt. This was the EPA led by Gina McCarthy. “My response to the spill was that the EPA should be held accountable to the same level in which EPA holds private businesses accountable. I think that's a pretty good standard. But if the EPA is going to make sure that somebody lives up to a standard, that the EPA live up to the same standard. That basic standard for the EPA to meet, because the agency caused the spill, it simply must apply the same requirements to itself that it does to a private company. “So it was with great disappointment, but very little surprise, that when the EPA decided to not subject itself to those same standards they walked away from the promises that they made. Sure the EPA had standards under Barack Obama, they were double standards. The Obama Administration's EPA’s refusal to not receive and process the personal injury or economic loss claims arising out of this spill at the Gold King Mine in Southwest Colorado is appalling. And I simply wish the outrage was there when the EPA walked away from the people that it had injured in Colorado. “We haven't heard talk about it here. We've heard a lot of complaints here. But nobody is saying that they should be paying for the damage in Colorado that they created. After all, we're discussing an EPA that with the strike of a pen, oftentimes with very little input from those people who would be affected, used overly burdensome regulations and heavy-handed enforcement to punish private businesses, despite the assurances and promises from the then-EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy that the agency takes full responsibility for the Gold King Mine spill. “The agency in 2017, just weeks ago, turned its back on the promises that it made and denied paying for the harm they caused to Coloradans. Promises were broken to our neighbors downstream in New Mexico, in Utah, including the Southern Ute Indian tribe, the Ute Mountain Ute, and the Navajo Nation. “Administrator McCarthy called me last month, just before the news broke, the report that EPA would not be processing the claims by dozens, upon dozens, upon dozens of individuals and businesses in Southwestern Colorado under the Federal Tort Claims Act against the federal government. “Over a year - the spill occurred in August of 2015 - over a year later, and in the waning days of the Obama Administration, they turned their backs on the promises they made to Colorado and notified us in the waning hours of an Administration saying: I'm sorry, we're not going to help the individuals who were harmed. This refusal to compensate for the spill is unacceptable and wholly inconsistent with EPA’s commitment to take full responsibility to the states, local and tribal governments and communities. “Mr. President, this past election the voters said they wanted something different from the last eight years in Washington because what they experienced was not working for the people. Broken promise after broken promise. A year and a half ago the EPA caused the Gold King Mine spill and the past Administration refused to make it right for Colorado. “Status quo at the EPA is not acceptable because broken promises, that's the status quo. I've had earnest conversations with Mr. Pruitt over the past several weeks about my sincere disappointment about those broken promises, and what we had to go through in Colorado, and what businesses had to go through in Colorado, as a result of the EPA spill. And you can imagine, in an area that is reliant on tourism, what photographs of this and headlines across the country and nightly news stories can do to a tourism-based economy. “Those kayakers we saw -- show the other chart. Those kayakers that we saw in this chart, they had to shut the river down. Outfitters weren't allowed to be on the river. Dollars lost because guides couldn't get out there. Books and trips had already been paid for had to be canceled. People didn't go because of the EPA’s spill. Their refusal to pay -- the EPA’s refusal to pay for lost property, lost economic opportunity, and lost business opportunity -- is simply unacceptable, and the earnest conversations that I have had with Scott Pruitt, he has promised to make it right. He has promised to stand up for the people in Colorado. He have has promised that he will make amends and pay for the damages that the Obama Administration refused to pay for. “He assured me that he is going to make it right and that he is going to work with the people that EPA injured and those who experienced economic losses and make sure that they are fully compensated. He agreed to come to Colorado shortly after his confirmation to make sure that the people of Colorado know that he will fulfill the promises that were failed under the Obama Administration. “I also talked about another top legislative priority of mine. Passing Good Samaritan legislation. Good Samaritan legislation would allow good samaritans, mining industry, state agencies, local governments, nonprofits, and other groups, the ability to clean up the environment and to improve water quality conditions around abandoned mines. “According to the Government Accountability Office, the GAO, it’s estimated there are more than 160,000 abandoned hard rock mines that exist across the United States and at least 33,000 of these mines pose environmental or safety concerns. “One of the immediate actions we can do in Congress to address this toxic waste and improve our environment is to pass Good Samaritan legislation. It's been decades as Congress has tried. It's been decades this Congress has failed. It's time to start succeeding and time to start cleaning up the environment. The last time the environment and public works committee was able to advance legislation on Good Samaritan was in 2006 from my predecessors Senators Wayne Allard and Ken Salazar. “Unfortunately, since 2006, this concept has been unsuccessful and caught in partisan politics. It's time to take steps forward facilitating cleanup of the nation's abandoned mines to prevent more spills like the Gold King Mine, and I've secured the commitment from Scott Pruitt to work with me on this legislation at the EPA to get this done, to work with both sides of the aisle to accomplish something so that we can prevent this from happening. “I'm not going to stop working until our constituents are made whole from the EPA-caused spill at the Gold King Mine. I'm not going to stop working until we pass --we've got to continue working to pass the Good Samaritan legislation. 33,000 mines that pose a risk to the West is unacceptable to our citizens, our pristine environment, our waterways, our children. “Mr. President, this wasn't Scott Pruitt, this wasn't Donald Trump. This was an Administration under the previous EPA, led by Gina McCarthy and President Obama that walked away from the people of Colorado and the promises made. And it gives me great - it heartens me greatly - to know that at least we have an Administration that will move away from every promise abandoned, to fulfilling the promises of protecting our environment. “Mr. President, I yield the floor.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Chairman of the Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
02.17.2017	02.17.17 ICYMI: Gardner Speaks on Senate Floor About Importance of Agriculture Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) spoke on the Senate floor about the agriculture crisis in America and the importance of agriculture to Colorado. Click here to view Senator Gardner’s remarks. Rush Transcript: “Thank you, Mr. President. There are a few things that I enjoy more than bragging about my hometown. I live in a little town called Yuma, Colorado, it’s out on the Eastern Plains, it’s a town of about 3,500 people. If maybe you over exaggerate just a little bit, it reaches 4,000. “It's out in the middle of the high plains of Colorado, 4,000 feet in elevation, 40 miles or so from the Kansas-Nebraska border. It's a farming community, 100% farming. Everything related to that town is farming. Even the clothing stores are related to farming because if you don't have a strong agriculture economy, nobody is buying blue jeans. Nobody is going up to the car dealership to buy a pickup, if the bushel of corn isn’t priced right. And so everything we do, everything we do in that town is related to agriculture and farming. “My family comes from a background of a farm equipment business. Started a business, it was about 101 years old this year by my great-grandfather, and my time working in that dealership started roughly when I was in seventh, eighth grade, and they let me do some very complicated tasks, high-skill tasks they let me perform – cleaning the bathroom, sweeping the floors. I did that throughout my time in eighth grade, high school, college and if I go back today, I'm sure they would let me do those same jobs – clean the bathrooms and sweep the floors. “Part of that is because I was selling the wrong parts to a lot of farmers that would come into the dealership and maybe they were just keeping me off of the parts counter for the time being. In fact, maybe that's why people voted for me is to get me off the parts counter, and quit selling the wrong parts. “Over my time working at the dealership we witnessed a lot of good times in agriculture. I can remember one time going into my dad and granddad’s office saying, ‘Hey, you know what? The economy is really good right now, the price of corn is really high right now. We ought to order a whole bunch of farm equipment, a whole bunch of pieces of implements, tillage equipment, a whole bunch of tractors, combines and have them on the lot so we can take advantage of the good times in agriculture.’ My granddad paused, and he looks at my dad and he says, ‘No, you know, I don't think we should do that, because I don't think times are going to be good next year.’ And you know what? They were right. “This is back in the, I think probably mid-90's. They’d seen it coming because of their experience in the business, the ebbs and flows of agriculture, the good times, the bad times. They were able to recognize, through their own experience, what different economic indicators meant to them and how they could forecast using their experience what was going to happen in the farm world the next year, and so they decided not to order all that brand-new equipment. They decided not to order the tractors, and the combines and tillage equipment, and it was a good thing because the next year it wasn't that great. And if this 18-year-old, 19-year-old kid had his way, we’d a had a whole lot of iron we were paying interest on that year without being able to sell it. Colorado is pretty blessed with 4,000 companies involved in agriculture, 173,000 jobs in Colorado directly involved in agriculture. The state has more than 35,000 farms and 31 million acres used for farming and ranching. “If you look at the Colorado business economic outlook, the net farm income of ranchers and farmers in 2016 estimated, though, this year to be the lowest it's been since 1986, and the projections for 2017 are even lower. “You know I grew up, of course, as a kid in the 1980's and watching perhaps the hardest times agriculture in the U.S. had faced in decades. Watching a lot of people that I knew my whole life going out of business, people having to sell the farm because of what was happening in the 1980's leading to a banking crisis in agriculture in the 1980's, watching banks that I had grown up with close, and I'm concerned though in this country that we're going to see the same thing again, beginning in 2016 into 2017, and then into 2018 next year. And I'm very worried that those tough times that we saw in the 1980's, some of the tough with the good times we saw in the 1990's, and some really good years just a few years ago, are going to seem like distant memories come later this summer and into next year if we don't do something. “I had the opportunity to visit with the Colorado commissioner of agriculture in my office last week, a gentleman by the name of Don Brown. Don Brown is from my hometown. That little town of Yuma, Colorado, has done pretty well for itself, 3,000 people; it has the State Commissioner of Agriculture from that hometown. The previous Commissioner of Agriculture, a gentleman by the name of John Stulp was from my hometown of Yuma. Both of them grew up in agriculture in that area, understanding what it's like on the high plains, understanding what it's like to live through good times and bad times. But both of them today I think would tell you they're very concerned as well about what happens over the next year, the next two years. “You know, it wasn't that long ago when we saw some of the highest-priced commodities this country has ever seen, at least in a very long time. “Golden years of agriculture,” some people said, where corn and wheat were priced high. People were able to pay their bills, buy new equipment. Commodity prices, they don't always stay that high though. The one thing that a farmer will tell you is the price of a piece of farm equipment stays high, the price of fertilizer seems to stay high, and when prices come down on their commodities, the other prices, the inputs stay high, and they find themselves in significant trouble. “The price of corn today is estimated to be about $3.15 per bushel. Less than that’s what it was in 2016. Less than half of the ten year high price of corn of $6.86 in 2012, just a few years ago. To put that in an historical context, the price of corn in 2016 at $3.15 is lower than the price of corn in 1974, the year I was born, when it was $3.20. The price of corn in 2016 was five cents lower than it was the year I was born, 1974. It's the same story across the board for Colorado. Wheat prices are down more than $1 from 2015 to 2016 alone and down more than 50% since 2012, and I can guarantee you, even though I may have sold a lot of wrong parts at the implement dealership, those wrong parts didn't come down in price 50%. “The livestock industry has seen similar trends with cattle prices at their lowest level since 2010. In farming and agriculture, a lot of times you might see a year where the price of corn is high but the price of cattle is low or price of other commodities are high and price of cattle is low, but when cattle are high maybe other commodities are low, and farmers who have a diverse operation are able to offset the lows and highs with the diverse operation. But not this year, and maybe it doesn't even look like that can be the case next year. The declines in the state's agriculture economy are not unique to Colorado. According to the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Economic Research Service, revenues have decreased for agriculture nationwide by more than 10% since 2014. “Recently, The Wall Street Journal wrote this of the crisis, and I'm going to show the headline of The Wall Street Journal piece just a couple of weeks ago. The Wall Street Journal has an article titled: ‘The Next American Farm Bust is Upon Us.’ “We've had a lot of debates on this floor. We've had debates about cabinet members. We've had debates about resolutions of disapprovals. We're talking about a lot of things, but there's a lot of suffering that’s beginning in the heartland of America right now. A lot of farmers and ranchers are suffering and they’re worried about how they're going to survive not just into the next year, but how they're going to survive into the next couple of months. The tell-tale signs of difficult times are all around us in agriculture, and this article, ‘The Next American Farm Bust is Upon Us’ begins to tell the story. “Here's what the Wall Street Journal said: ‘The Farm Belt is hurtling toward a milestone: Soon there will be fewer than two million farms in America for the first time since pioneers moved westward after the Louisiana Purchase. Across the heartland, a multiyear slump in prices for corn, wheat and other farm commodities brought on by a glut of grain world-wide is pushing many farmers further into debt. Some are shutting down, raising concerns that the next few years could bring the biggest wave of farm closures since the 1980s.’ “The article highlights the story of a 5th generation farmer from western Kansas. I mentioned that my hometown is about 40 miles away from Kansas and it looks very similar to the eastern Colorado plains that I live in. “Here's his story: ‘From his father porch, the 56-year-old can see the wind-swept spot where his great grandparents sod house stood in 1902 when they planted the first of the 1200 acres on which the family farm’s alfalfa, sorghum and wheat today. Even after harvesting one of their best wheat crops ever last year, thanks to plentiful rain and a mild winter, Mr. Scott isn't sure how long they can afford to keep farming that ground.’ “There's a lot of work that we need to do to make sure that Mr. Scott, farmers that live in my community around the eastern and Western Slope of Colorado will be able to survive into the next year, steps that we can help to make sure that we are addressing this crisis head on before it begins and develops into a full-blown farm crisis like we saw in the 1980's. “We must have serious regulatory reform. In a letter I received from the Colorado Farm Bureau, the letter read: ‘The Colorado Farm Bureau recognizes a major impediment to the success of American agricultural industries and the national economy is rampant federal regulation and the associated cost of compliance.’ “We've got to allow U.S. agriculture to flow to markets around the world, so in addition to that regulatory reform, and some of which we're undertaking now through resolutions of disapproval, by peeling back the overreach of government, we have to allow farmers access to more markets and that's a concern that we all should share. What's going to happen with our trade policy in this country? Because if we decide to shut off trade in this country, if we decide to close access and avenues to new markets, the first people who are going to be hurt is that farmer and rancher in Colorado, in Kansas, throughout the Midwest of the United States. “We have to have the opportunity to be able to send that bushel of wheat to Asia, that bushel of corn around the globe to make sure that we are providing value-added opportunities for the world's best farmers and ranchers. “Opening up new markets for Colorado and American agriculture is a clear way that we can support rural economies, and let's be clear what I said at the beginning of these comments. There are farm communities that have diversity in their economic opportunities. A farm economy may not be 100% dependent on farms and ranches, maybe they have tourism, maybe they’ve got some recreational opportunities, or maybe they are close to a big city where people can live there and commute. But there are a lot of towns across the United States that are solely 100% committed to agriculture. They don't have access to anything else but farming and ranching, and when the price is down, the town is down, and when the town is down main street erodes, and when main street erodes, it affects our schools and our hospitals and our relationships and our families. And somebody has to be looking out for our farmers and ranchers because the next American farm bust is upon us. “We have to take the necessary steps to pass a farm bill that gets our policies right when the new one expires and the current one expires in 2016 and these discussions are just now underway. And so if we have regulatory reform, if we open up new trade opportunities for agriculture, and we give farmers certainty, those are three things that we can do to help address this crisis before it becomes a full-blown crisis. “We got to make sure to our farmers and ranchers that we support them, that we have their backs in good times and in bad times. Giving farmers certainty through the farm bill, through a regulatory landscape that provides certainty and relief, is important. “I talked to a family member of mine just the other day who talks about his fear that he sees conditions similar to what we saw in the 1980's. Final relief that we can provide is relief in financial regulations that are stifling the ability of banks to provide workout opportunities for farmers and ranchers when they need it. “So four things we ought to be doing for our farmers and ranchers: provide them certainty, regulatory relief, new trade opportunities, targeted financial relief on regulations that are preventing workouts through our banks in our communities. “We've got opportunity now to prevent this country from seeing what it saw in the 1980's, but let’s not be reactionary. Let's do what we can to get ahead of this, before we start seeing what secretary-designate Purdue told me the other day. One of the customers of his agricultural business took their life because they don't know what's going to happen to their farm and his three kids are left now wondering what they're going to do. “So Mr. President, I thank you for the time today on the floor, and I just hope that this country understands how supportive we are of American agriculture and the actions we need to take to stand with them when times get tough. “Thanks, Mr. President. I yield the floor.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
02.16.2017	02.16.17 Gardner Introduces, Questions Denver International Airport CEO at Hearing Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today introduced the Chief Executive Officer of Denver International Airport (DIA), Kim Day, at a Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation subcommittee hearing titled, “Stakeholder Perspectives on Improving TSA for the Security of the Traveling Public.” Following introductory remarks, Gardner asked Ms. Day to elaborate on DIA’s relationship with the Transportation Security Administration’s (TSA) partnership with the airport and how DIA can serve as a model for other airports. “I’m pleased Kim Day, Denver International Airport’s CEO, testified before the Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Subcommittee focused on improving TSA today,” said Gardner. “Kim Day runs a world-class airport that serves thousands of Coloradans every day, and I have been more than happy to support the airport at the federal level and will continue to do everything I can to help Denver International Airport provide a safe, efficient travel experience for the millions of people who pass through the airport every year.” “It was an honor to testify in front of the committee today and I want to thank Senator Gardner, who is a great champion for Colorado and the Denver airport, for the invitation,” said Kim Day, CEO of the Denver International Airport. “As our airport undergoes a transformation and works to reconfigure our main terminal to address security and passenger efficiency, we look forward to partnering with Senator Gardner and the federal government to accomplish this goal.” You can watch excerpts from hearing here. Last July, Gardner’s SCREEN FAST Act was signed into law by President Obama as part of the FAA Extension, Safety, and Security Act of 2016. The legislation addressed both short-term and long-term concerns with TSA security lines at airports across the natiom, including Denver International Airport. The bill created two pilot programs focused on increasing efficiency and security at airports and establishing prototypes for new and innovative screening techniques. It also directed the TSA to report to the Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation and House Homeland Security Committees on the pilot programs. During the hearing, Senator Gardner mentioned that he would be sending a letter to the TSA urging them to move expeditiously in implementing the security reforms from his SCREEN FAST legislation. You can read that letter here. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
02.16.2017	02.16.17 Gardner Reacts to Joint Statement from US, South Korea, and Japan Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statement after the United States, South Korea, and Japan released a joint statement condemning North Korea’s ballistic missile launch: “I’m encouraged by today’s joint statement from the U.S., South Korea, and Japan because it represents a unified front against North Korean aggression. The statement also sends a message to North Korea and our adversaries around the world: the U.S. will stand up to those who threaten our allies,” said Gardner. “I urge the Administration to continue to pursue and strengthen this important trilateral alliance, an effective policy tool to deter Pyongyang and promote peace in the region. Additionally, I’m hopeful that the Administration expedites the placement of the U.S. Terminal High Altitude Area Defense and show-of-force exercises near North Korea. Together, the U.S., South Korea, and Japan can work toward changing North Korea’s behavior and disarming the regime.” Gardner’s statement on North Korea’s launch along with a letter he sent to the Administration urging the prioritization of the North Korean threat can be found here. Additionally, earlier this week Gardner sent a letter with his Senate colleagues to Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin requesting that the department pursue a full range of financial sanctions against the regime. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
02.15.2017	02.15.17 Gardner, Cruz Submit Letter Urging Financial Sanctions Against North Korea Senators send letter to Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin regarding continued aggression from the DPRK WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Ted Cruz (R-TX) delivered a letter to Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin that expresses grave concerns regarding continued aggression from the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (DPRK), and urging him to execute the full extent of financial sanctions and targeted financial measures allowed under current law. The letter was also signed by Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC), Marco Rubio (R-FL), Pat Toomey (R-PA), and David Perdue (R-GA). “As Kim Jung-un has exposed his willingness to increase ballistic missile testing with the ultimate goal of achieving nuclear breakout, the potential for this regime to attain a developed and capable intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM) poses an imminent threat that cannot be ignored,” the senators wrote. “North Korea’s test of an intermediate-range ballistic missile this past weekend demonstrates advancement in fuel and launch technology, underscoring the necessity of faithfully executing the law to meet this growing threat.” The senators’ letter lists ten actions that, if fully enforced and implemented, could more effectively cut off North Korea’s access to the hard currency it uses to finance its illicit nuclear program: Add any remaining North Korean banks to the list of Specially Designated Nationals, thus completing the cutoff of North Korean banks from the international financial system. Ensure that the Treasury Department has sufficient funds, personnel, resources, and legal authorities to expose North Korea’s money laundering network and its Chinese enablers at the earliest possible date. Then, in accordance with the NKSPEA, either add their names to the list of Specially Designated Nationals and freeze their assets, assess appropriate civil and criminal penalties, or both. Enact additional Patriot Act section 311 special measures against North Korea, including Special Measure 2, which would require banks operating within U.S. jurisdiction “to maintain records, file reports, or both, concerning the aggregate amount of transactions, or concerning each transaction,” with respect to any North Korean property, interests in property, or funds. This measure would leverage the knowledge of the financial industry and begin the laborious process of mapping the web of front companies, shell companies, and agents that sustain Kim Jong-un’s regime. Work with the State Department to investigate whether North Korea merits re-designation as a State Sponsor of Terrorism. Revise or replace the outdated North Korea Sanctions Regulations at 31 CFR Part 510 to impose comprehensive transactions licensing requirements on transactions involving North Korea, similar to those that previously applied to Iran, Burma, and Cuba. Clarify to the financial industry worldwide that in the future, the Department of Treasury will strictly enforce Know-Your-Customer obligations, and requirements to file Suspicious Activity Reports and Currency Transactions reports, with respect to any North Korean nationals, entities, agents, or assets. Enforcement of these regulations could yield a windfall of financial intelligence necessary to find and block those North Korean assets. In conjunction with the Attorney General at the earliest time possible, initiate an investigation into the Bank of China and the 12 Chinese banks involved in the Dandong Hongxiang case for possible violations of U.S. laws or financial regulations for their North Korea-related transactions. Take strong enforcement action against any banks that continue to unlawfully provide direct or indirect correspondent banking services to North Korean banks. In conjunction with the Secretary of State, ask European Union and Belgian authorities to ensure that North Korean banks are denied access to specialized financial messaging services, such as the SWIFT network, in accordance with their obligations under U.N. Security Council resolutions. Continue targeting and freezing the financial assets of any Chinese entity pursuant to the NKSPEA and Executive Order 13722, which prohibit any property or interests within the United States from importing coal from North Korea. The full text of the letter is below: Dear Secretary Mnuchin, We write to express grave concern over the continued aggression from the Democratic Peoples Republic of Korea (DPRK), and urge you to execute the full extent of financial sanctions and targeted financial measures provided for under current law. As Kim Jung-un has exposed his willingness to increase ballistic missile testing with the ultimate goal of achieving nuclear breakout, the potential for this regime to attain a developed and capable intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM) poses an imminent threat that cannot be ignored. North Korea’s test of an intermediate-range ballistic missile this past weekend demonstrates advancement in fuel and launch technology, underscoring the necessity of faithfully executing the law to meet this growing threat. For eight years U.S. policy toward curbing Pyongyang’s nuclear ambitions was “strategic patience”. As a result, the Obama administration hesitated to leverage the overwhelming and bipartisan support of a united Congress to bring meaningful economic pressure to bear on Kim Jong-un In return, North Korea evaded financial sanctions, established front companies for illicit dealings, and continued work on its ICBM and nuclear programs. Today, it is reported that Kim Jong-un may be able to strike the West Coast of the United States with nuclear weapons within four years, and that he may already be able to strike our allies in South Korea and Japan, where thousands of U.S. military personnel are stationed. The regime was able to evolve its nuclear program due to the Obama administration’s timidity to enforce rigorous oversight and effectively cut off North Korea’s access to the hard currency used to finance its illicit activity. In 2016, after years of failed policy, the U.S. quietly designated North Korea as a jurisdiction of primary money laundering concern – a label which comes with strict regulations pursuant to the Financial Action Task Force, which has repeatedly warned banks around the world of the money laundering and proliferation risks posed by North Korea’s deceptive financial practices. However, having waited too long to meaningfully enforce this designation, North Korea had already firmly established a method to maintain access to the international banking system. Over the last decade several – but not all – North Korean banks were banned from conducting U.S. dollar transactions. North Korean banks nonetheless have evaded these sanctions by setting up front companies, shell companies, and a network of third-country agents to hide its beneficial ownership and control. They have also relied on Chinese banks and front companies with access to the U.S. financial system to maintain indirect access to the international banking system. Often, they conduct dollar transactions with Chinese trading companies, which in turn use their own accounts in Chinese banks, which use correspondent accounts in American banks to access the dollar system. In doing so, those front companies — and in some cases, the banks — knowingly violate U.S. law. The revelation from last summer that the Chinese trading company Dandong Hongxiang Industrial Development Ltd. was responsible for over $500 million in trade with North Korea was stunning, but this may be just the tip of the iceberg. Other companies, such as Chinpo Shipping and 88 Queensway, have also facilitated trade and commerce that help bankroll North Korea’s nuclear and missile programs. Although the Treasury Department sanctioned Dandong Hongxiang and its corporate officers, freezing the assets of a handful of entities is a far cry from what is necessary: a determined, sustained, and well-resourced campaign to investigate, uncover, and sanction the complex web of similar Chinese, Middle Eastern, and other third-country companies and banks that fund Kim Jong-un’s regime, facilitate proliferation, and break sanctions. All necessary legal tools are in place to begin conducting such a campaign in earnest, today. Any bank that processes dollar transactions through U.S.-based correspondent accounts are legally obligated by the Treasury Department’s Know-Your-Customer regulations and UN sanctions resolutions to conduct due diligence investigations into any company with possible links to North Korea. Yet in many cases, Chinese banks, including the Bank of China, have disregarded their obligations to enforce U.N. sanctions on North Korea and have ignored their Know-Your-Customer obligations, thus facilitating North Korean proliferation. Regrettably, when the Justice Department indicted Dandong Hongxiang, it also announced that “[t]here are no allegations of wrongdoing by the U.S. correspondent banks or foreign banks that maintain these accounts.” It is difficult to construe this inaction as anything less than a lack of political will. Indeed, Treasury officials under the Obama administration were forced to admit in a Senate hearing four months ago that they had not sanctioned a single Chinese bank, despite the evidence of Chinese banks’ role in sanctions violations. This is disturbing, considering the historical success of squeezing the North Korean regime by targeting third-party banks found to be complicit in money laundering. In 2005, the US declared Macau-based Banco Delta a “money laundering concern,” which, accompanied by sub rosa meetings by US officials throughout Asia, started a global ripple effect that caused banks around the world to freeze and close North Korean accounts. As former Deputy Assistant Secretary of Terrorist Financing and Financial Crimes Daniel L. Glaser reported shortly thereafter: “Press reports indicate that some two dozen financial institutions across the globe have voluntarily cut back or terminated their business with North Korea, notably including institutions in China, Japan, Vietnam, Mongolia, and Singapore. The result of these voluntary actions is that it is becoming very difficult for the Kim Jong-Il regime to benefit from its criminal conduct.” Secretary Lew designated North Korea as a jurisdiction of primary money laundering concern on his way out the door, having waited too long to meaningfully enforce it. With the risks of proliferation and war now at a critical stage, we have no more time to waste on inaction. At the outset of this new administration, therefore, we call your attention to a series of actions that, if fully enforced and implemented, could more effectively cut off North Korea’s access to the hard currency is uses to finance its illicit nuclear program: 1. Add any remaining North Korean banks to the list of Specially Designated Nationals, thus completing the cutoff of North Korean banks from the international financial system. 2. Ensure that the Treasury Department has sufficient funds, personnel, resources, and legal authorities to expose North Korea’s money laundering network and its Chinese enablers at the earliest possible date. Then, in accordance with the NKSPEA, either add their names to the list of Specially Designated Nationals and freeze their assets, assess appropriate civil and criminal penalties, or both. 3. Enact additional Patriot Act section 311 special measures against North Korea, including Special Measure 2, which would require banks operating within U.S. jurisdiction “to maintain records, file reports, or both, concerning the aggregate amount of transactions, or concerning each transaction,” with respect to any North Korean property, interests in property, or funds. This measure would leverage the knowledge of the financial industry and begin the laborious process of mapping the web of front companies, shell companies, and agents that sustain Kim Jong-un’s regime. 4. Work with the State Department to investigate whether North Korea merits re-designation as a State Sponsor of Terrorism. 5. Revise or replace the outdated North Korea Sanctions Regulations at 31 CFR Part 510 to impose comprehensive transactions licensing requirements on transactions involving North Korea, similar to those that previously applied to Iran, Burma, and Cuba. 6. Clarify to the financial industry worldwide that in the future, the Department of Treasury will strictly enforce Know-Your-Customer obligations, and requirements to file Suspicious Activity Reports and Currency Transactions reports, with respect to any North Korean nationals, entities, agents, or assets. Enforcement of these regulations could yield a windfall of financial intelligence necessary to find and block those North Korean assets. 7. In conjunction with the Attorney General at the earliest time possible, initiate an investigation into the Bank of China and the 12 Chinese banks involved in the Dandong Hongxiang case for possible violations of U.S. laws or financial regulations for their North Korea-related transactions. 8. Take strong enforcement action against any banks that continue to unlawfully provide direct or indirect correspondent banking services to North Korean banks. 9. In conjunction with the Secretary of State, ask European Union and Belgian authorities to ensure that North Korean banks are denied access to specialized financial messaging services, such as the SWIFT network, in accordance with their obligations under U.N. Security Council resolutions. 10. Continue targeting and freezing the financial assets of any Chinese entity pursuant to the NKSPEA and Executive Order 13722, which prohibit any property or interests within the United States from importing coal from North Korea. The strict and swift enforcement of our laws may be your last chance to protect the American people from Kim Jong-un’s nuclear blackmail and prevent another Korean War. Time is of the essence. Please let us know if you require additional authorities or resources to counter this growing threat and keep our nation safe. Sincerely, ###
02.14.2017	02.14.17 Gardner Reacts to White House Comment on Russia Washington – U.S. Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statement following the White House press secretary’s comment that "President Trump has made it very clear that he expects the Russian government to de-escalate violence in the Ukraine and return Crimea." “I welcome news that the White House has laid out a clear and unequivocal stance on Russian aggression in Ukraine,” said Gardner. “Russia’s destabilizing actions must be met with resolve from the United States, and today’s statement from the White House is a positive step toward that goal.” This past week, Gardner led a group of Senators in sending a letter to President Trump urging his Administration to pursue a principled and tough-minded Russia policy, highlighting Russia's aggressive behavior in Ukraine, Syria, and cyberspace. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
02.14.2017	02.14.17 Gardner Votes to Confirm Linda McMahon to Head the Small Business Administration Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statement after voting in favor of confirming Linda McMahon to head the Small Business Administration. “I was proud to support Linda McMahon for Small Business Administrator today because I’m confident she will help small businesses in Colorado and around the country succeed,” said Gardner. “Mrs. McMahon is one of our country’s most successful entrepreneurs and will bring fresh insight to the Small Business Administration. Whether it’s reducing burdensome regulations or reforming our tax code, Mrs. McMahon is committed to working to see that our small businesses have a seat at the table so they can create jobs and lead our country’s economic resurgence.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
02.14.2017	02.14.17 Gardner Joins Senate Colleagues and Encourages the President to Strengthen Mission at GTMO, Safeguard Americans Letter Requests Immediate Hold on Transferring Detainees, Evaluation of Review Board Washington – U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Jerry Moran (R-KS), along with nine of their colleagues, this week encouraged the President to assess the future operations and detention of detainees held at the Joint Task Force Guantanamo Bay detention facility in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba (GTMO) in a letter to the President. “Congress has continuously opposed and prohibited the closure of GTMO as well as the transfer of GTMO detainees to U.S. soil since 2010 in response to the previous administration’s attempt to fulfill a campaign promise,” the Senators wrote. “Despite the growing number of threats to our nation from terrorists around the globe, the Obama administration demonstrated a serious disregard for the safety of the American people and the will of Congress by dramatically reducing the number of detainees housed at GTMO to justify those remaining to be transferred to the U.S.” In the letter, the Senators shared with President Trump a number of recommendations for the future of the detention facility as the president and Congress work to ensure the safety of the American people. They requested an immediate hold on transferring detainees approved for release by the Periodic Review Board (PRB) and the suspension of the PRB itself – which was established in 2011 to assess and determine the transfer of detainees – along with a full and judicious review of the PRB’s role and responsibilities. They also requested the consideration of military value analysis and recommendations of the nation’s most senior military leaders. Click here to read the full letter. ###
02.13.2017	02.13.17 Gardner Votes to Confirm Mnuchin as Treasury Secretary, Shulkin as VA Secretary Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statements after voting in favor of confirming Steven Mnuchin as Secretary of Treasury and Dr. David Shulkin as Secretary of Veterans Affairs: On Steven Mnuchin as Secretary of Treasury: “Mr. Mnuchin’s decades of experience in business will serve him well as Secretary of the Treasury,” said Gardner. “His thorough understanding of financial markets prepares him to help implement pro-growth tax reform, spur job creation, and ease regulatory burdens on all Americans.” On Dr. David Shulkin for VA Secretary: “Dr. Shulkin pledged to institute significant reforms to transform the VA and restore trust in the agency. I’m encouraged that he committed to improving the benefits appeals process and ensuring patients receive timely access to care, and that includes seeing a doctor outside of the VA if the veteran cannot be seen in a timely manner or lives far from a VA medical facility,” said Gardner. “Congress must continue to exercise its oversight role and will continue to hold the agency accountable – as Dr. Shulkin requested during his hearing - to ensure veterans receive the world-class care that they deserve.” Gardner will continue to work to see that the VA upholds its commitment to Colorado veterans and completes the Aurora VA hospital they were promised. The Senator also renews his commitment to ensuring that the VA’s gross mismanagement of the Aurora hospital project is not replicated. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
02.12.2017	02.12.17 Amidst Missile Test, Gardner Urges Administration to Prioritize North Korean Threat Washington, DC – On Friday, a day before North Korea launched a ballistic missile in violation of United Nations resolutions, U.S. Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) sent a letter to President Trump urging his Administration to take a “determined and resolute U.S. policy toward North Korea,” highlighting Kim Jong Un’s regime’s illicit nuclear and ballistic weapons programs, human rights abuses, and malicious cyber activities. Upon learning of the latest missile test, Gardner made the following statement: “This latest missile test is another example of why the US policy toward North Korea should never be ‘strategic patience’, as it was during the Obama Administration. I urge the Trump Administration to immediately pursue a series of tough measures, to include additional sanctions designations and show-of-force military exercises with our allies in the region, to send a message to Kim Jong Un that we remain committed to deterring the North Korean threat. I also believe we must expedite the placement of the Terminal High Altitude Area Defense, or THAAD, in South Korea to protect our allies and the tens of thousands of American troops in the region." Gardner, Chairman of the Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy, authored the North Korea Sanctions Policy and Enhancement Act. Signed into law by President Obama in February of 2016. The legislation marked the first time Congress imposed stand-alone mandatory sanctions on North Korea. The letter, sent Friday, reads in full: Dear Mr. President: As you set your foreign policy and national defense agenda, I urge you to prioritize efforts to stop North Korea’s illicit nuclear and ballistic weapons programs, human rights abuses, and malicious cyber activities. Pyongyang’s behavior threatens not only our allies in East Asia, but also U.S. national security and the American homeland. Secretary of Defense James Mattis’ first overseas trip was to the Republic of Korea (ROK) and Japan, which showed an unwavering U.S. commitment to our alliances and our seriousness to deter Pyongyang. We commend him on this decision. I urge you to take the following initial steps to set what we believe is the proper course for a determined and resolute U.S. policy toward North Korea in the Trump Administration. First, we should fully enforce of existing U.S. and multilateral sanctions regarding North Korea – and as merited, imposition of additional sanctions. The North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act (NKSPEA, P.L. 114-122), which passed by a vote of 98-0 in the Senate, mandates the imposition of U.S. sanctions on entities contributing to North Korean proliferation activities, human rights abuses, and malicious cyber activities. The Congress expects the Administration to fully enforce this important legislation. In order to exert the most effective economic leverage with Pyongyang, I urge you to employ all diplomatic tools to pressure the People’s Republic of China (PRC) – a nation with which North Korea conducts around 90% of its trade – to fully and unequivocally enforce its North Korea sanction commitments, in particular United Nations Security Council Resolutions 2270 and 2321. In addition, we encourage you to impose secondary U.S. sanctions on any PRC-based entities found in violation of the U.S. or UN sanctions regimes, or engaged in evasion of these sanctions. Second, we must enhance our defense and deterrence posture in East Asia. I urge you to work closely with our South Korean allies to expedite the placement of the U.S. Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) in South Korean territory. We must not allow China’s unprecedented pressure campaign against the ROK to cancel the THAAD deployment succeed. In addition, we must continue to conduct regular American show-of-force exercises near North Korea, such as nuclear bomber overflights and an enhanced U.S. military presence. Pyongyang must know that any armed aggression against our allies will receive a swift and deadly rebuke. Third, we must continue efforts to build a strong trilateral alliance between United States, ROK, and Japan. Strengthening this alliance can arguably provide the most effective policy tool to deter Pyongyang and to promote lasting peace and security in the region. We must continue to conduct regular high-level trilateral summits, as called for by NKSPEA. We should encourage more high-profile joint exercises with these strong allies, such the trilateral missile defense exercises conducted in June 2016. We must encourage both sides to fully implement and build on the General Security of Military Information Agreement (GSOMIA), signed in November 2016. Finally, we encourage you to shine a light on the human suffering of the North Korean people, both through the imposition of sanctions against human rights abusers as well as support for U.S. and international efforts to provide credible information and communication tools for the North Korean people. Section 403 of NKSPEA authorized $10 million for freedom of information efforts with regard to North Korea and I urge you to fully implement this mandate. Mr. President, we are at a critical juncture with regard to North Korea and its provocative behavior: we require a swift, resolute, and well-coordinated policy to deter Pyongyang now and with time, to peacefully de-nuclearize the Korean peninsula. I hope you approach this request with utmost urgency and provide a timely and actionable response. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
02.10.2017	02.10.17 Gardner Meets with Japan Prime Minister Abe Washington – U.S. Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Chairman of the Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy, today released the below statement following his meeting with Japan Prime Minister Shinzo Abe: “I appreciate the opportunity to engage with Prime Minister Abe and have a discussion about Asia’s increasingly challenging security environment. I reaffirmed our unwavering commitment to our alliance with Japan and assured Prime Minister Abe that the U.S. stands ready to assist in efforts to deter aggression to counter a belligerent North Korea and China’s hostile behavior in the East and South China Seas. We also discussed trade opportunities, particularly liquefied natural gas and other energy exports from Colorado. I look forward to continuing to work with Prime Minister Abe and our Asia allies to address the political, economic, and security issues impacting our relationship with our Pacific partners.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
02.10.2017	02.10.17 Gardner Votes to Confirm Dr. Tom Price Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today voted in favor of confirming Dr. Tom Price as Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services: “Obamacare has led to soaring premiums, diminishing choices, and hundreds of thousands of cancelled plans over the past four years in Colorado alone. It’s time to fix our broken health care system and evaluate and implement ideas that will empower patients, and Dr. Tom Price is committed to doing just that. As a physician for nearly two decades and former Chairman of the Budget Committee, Dr. Price is an ideal candidate to address the damage of Obamacare and work with Congress toward health care solutions that effectively preserve choice and keep costs down.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
02.09.2017	02.09.17 Gardner, Coons Introduce Bipartisan Bill to Help Small Manufacturers Access Affordable Loans Washington, DC – U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Chris Coons (D-DE) today introduced the Investing in America’s Small Manufacturers Act, which will increase the number of affordable loans to small manufacturers through the Small Business Administration’s (SBA) flagship loan guarantee programs. Lack of access to affordable capital impacts the manufacturing sector disproportionately because of its capital-intensive nature and the need to finance inventories over longer periods than other sectors of the economy. Small manufacturers in particular have limited access to cash reserves and often have difficulty securing adequate lines of credit through traditional lenders. The SBA assists small businesses around the country in a number of ways, most importantly through programs that guarantee loans offered by financial institutions to qualified small businesses. Unfortunately not enough small manufacturers have taken advantage of the services that the SBA can provide. To address these challenges, the bill authorizes an increase in the maximum SBA guarantee on loans to small manufacturers and reduces the fee small manufacturers pay on these loans. The legislation also directs the SBA to use its resources to help small manufacturers navigate the SBA’s application process, thereby making them more attractive to lenders and increasing their ability to access much needed credit. “It’s important that small manufacturers have access to the capital they need to jumpstart their businesses, and our bill will do just that,” said Senator Gardner. “The Investing in America’s Small Manufacturers Act makes it easier for small manufacturers to obtain loans that will enable them to hire and grow their workforce and boost local communities in Colorado and throughout the country.” “Small manufacturers are the backbone of the U.S. manufacturing industry and account for nearly half of all manufacturing jobs in the United States,” said Senator Coons. "This bill will help increase the availability of affordable capital to small manufacturers, which will allow these companies to expand operations and create new jobs. Support for manufacturing is bipartisan and a policy area where Congress and the Administration can find common ground.” “Bolstering manufacturing and other traded sectors is critical to improving U.S. economic competitiveness. There are significant differences for U.S. job creation and prosperity between a small manufacturer and a small retail firm: The former plays a significantly more important role in driving economic growth and—through the multiplier effect—jobs. We welcome this legislation that would direct the Small Business Administration to focus more on traded-sector firms by ensuring small manufacturers have the capital they need to drive growth and create jobs,” said Dr. Robert D. Atkinson, President, ITIF. The 7(a) and 504 programs are the SBA’s flagship small business loan guarantee programs. These programs provide critical guarantees on loans to small businesses that often have difficulty qualifying for traditional loans. According to the SBA, in FY 2015, 7(a) and 504 lending supported over 684,000 jobs and over 60,700 small businesses. ###
02.09.2017	02.09.17 Gardner Leads Group of Senators in Urging Administration to Pursue a Tough Russia Policy Washington – U.S. Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) along with Senators Jim Inhofe (R-OK), Todd Young (R-IN), Rob Portman (R-OH), Mike Rounds (R-SD), Joni Ernst (R-IA), John Cornyn (R-TX), Susan Collins (R-ME), and Lindsey Graham (R-SC) today sent a letter to President Trump urging his Administration to pursue a principled and tough-minded Russia policy, highlighting Russia's aggressive behavior in Ukraine, Syria, and cyberspace. The letter reads in full: Dear Mr. President: We write to ask you to pursue a results-oriented, but tough-minded and principled policy toward the Russian Federation. Russia’s cooperation is desirable, and in some cases essential, to global initiatives such as nuclear arms control, counter-terrorism, drug trafficking, or promoting global health. We should maintain active and ongoing dialogue with Russia on these and others areas of mutual interests, as every U.S. President has done since the end of the Cold War. However, while we should seek common ground with Russia in the areas of mutual interest, we must never pursue cooperation with Russia at the expense of our fundamental interests of defending our allies and promoting our values. The United States should unequivocally condemn – and take proactive steps to stem – the continued Russian aggression in Ukraine. Russia has invaded Ukraine and illegally annexed the Crimean peninsula, in violation of international law, and has directly abetted the so-called “separatist rebels” in eastern Ukraine. Since 2014, over 10,000 Ukrainians have died in this tragic conflict, and there are as many as 1.5 million internally displaced persons because of the violence. The most recent escalation of fighting along the “line of contact” in eastern Ukraine should serve as a reminder of Russia’s nefarious intentions. The Administration should maintain the current U.S. sanctions regime against Russia and Russian entities – and to impose new sanctions as necessary and merited by Russian behavior –unless Ukraine’s control over Crimea is restored, Russia fully respects the Minsk agreements, and ceases all efforts to undermine Ukraine’s sovereignty. Furthermore, we ask you to expedite the provision of defensive lethal weapons to Ukraine, and we were encouraged that Secretary of State Tillerson supported this position during his confirmation hearing. The United States should not enter into any military or diplomatic agreement with Russia regarding Syria’s future until Moscow halts its military operations that have caused immense damage and human suffering and ceases support for the murderous regime of Bashar al-Assad. It is plainly evident that despite Russian claims to the contrary, Moscow’s main goal is not the defeat of the Islamic State, but the preservation of the Assad regime at any cost. According to the Pentagon’s spokesman, as of February 3, 2016, only 10 percent of Russian airstrikes were against Islamic State targets. However, according to an estimate released by the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights on December 31, 2016, at least 4,700 civilians died in Syria due to Russian shelling, including the targeting of schools and hospitals. The U.S. must condemn these Russian atrocities and condition any future negotiations regarding Syria’s future on Russian compliance with international norms and basic human rights. Furthermore, we must recognize and counter the active cyber and information warfare Russia is conducting against the United States and Western democracies, including attempted interference in our democratic elections process. According to the 2016 Worldwide Threat Assessment of the U.S. Intelligence Community: “Russian cyber operations are likely to target US interests to support several strategic objectives: intelligence gathering to support Russian decision-making in the Ukraine and Syrian crises, influence operations to support military and political objectives, and continuing preparation of the cyber environment for future contingencies.” The United States must have a firm response to this belligerent behavior from Moscow, which should include diplomatic actions, economic consequences, as well as a strengthened military posture in Europe. Most importantly, we urge you to relay to Moscow that the values of democracy, human rights, transparency, and accountability are central to U.S. foreign policy, that these values are non-negotiable, and that the United States will continue to advance these values globally, including with regard to Russia. President Putin must know that the United States remains a beacon of hope and democracy around the world, and will stand up for what is right. Mr. President, we look forward to your reply and maintaining an open, ongoing, and respectful dialogue with you regarding U.S.-Russia relations. Sincerely, ###
02.08.2017	02.08.17 Gardner Statement on Confirmation of Jeff Sessions as Attorney General Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statement after voting in favor of confirming Senator Jeff Sessions (R-AL) as the U.S. Attorney General: “Mr. Sessions has an impressive legal career and a profound commitment to upholding the rule of law. I’ve had the opportunity to work with him in the Senate and witness firsthand his strong record of bipartisanship. I’m confident in his ability to serve as the chief law enforcement officer in the country.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
02.08.2017	02.08.17 Gardner, Blumenthal Introduce Bipartisan Resolution Pledging Unwavering Commitment to NATO Washington, DC – U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Richard Blumenthal (D-CT) introduced a bipartisan resolution pledging the United States’ unwavering commitment to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO). Senators Claire McCaskill (D-MO) and Marco Rubio (R-FL) are original cosponsors of the resolution. “It is indisputable that NATO is the most successful military alliance in history and it is essential that we strengthen NATO for current and future challenges to maintain global peace and stability. In order to achieve this goal, it is crucial that all NATO members make good on their commitment to contribute to NATO’s defense spending,” said Gardner. “Just last month, 4th Infantry Division troops based in Fort Carson were deployed to eastern Europe to enhance U.S. military presence and to offer support to our allies in the region. This resolution reaffirms our commitment to the NATO alliance as a force for good and to deter any and all aggression from adversaries.” “Now more than ever, it is critical that the United States makes clear we stand with our NATO allies,” Blumenthal said. “From building collective security during the Cold War to standing strong in the face of Russian aggression today, NATO has promoted peace, security, and international cooperation for almost 70 years. This resolution will send a message to the world that our country will maintain strong leadership and strengthen its commitments to this historic organization.” The text of today’s resolution is available below: Expressing the unwavering commitment of the United States to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. Whereas, following World War II, the United States rejected isolationism, established its role as a world leader, and developed an international alliance system that protected the United States while supporting democracy, freedom, and economic prosperity with European nations; Whereas, 70 years ago, the United States announced the Marshall Plan for Europe, a strategic investment in Europe, as well as articulated the Truman Doctrine, which sought to contain a growing Soviet threat in Southern Europe; Whereas, in 1949, the United States, Canada, Belgium, Denmark, France, Iceland, Italy, Luxemburg, the Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, and the United Kingdom signed the North Atlantic Treaty that formed the basis of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (in this preamble referred to as “NATO”); Whereas NATO was created to protect countries from a growing Soviet threat, promote international peace and stability, and defend freedom; Whereas, to date, 28 countries have joined NATO; Whereas, for more than 67 years, NATO has served as a central pillar of United States national security and a deterrent against adversaries and external threats; Whereas NATO continues to improve its collective defense measures, enhance its military capabilities to address a full spectrum of complex threats, and partner with non-NATO countries to promote international stability; Whereas Article 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty is an integral part of NATO and states that “[t]he Parties agree that an armed attack against one or more of them in Europe or North America shall be considered an attack against them all...”; Whereas NATO invoked Article 5 for the first time less than 24 hours after the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks against the United States; Whereas, in Afghanistan, NATO allies and partners have served alongside United States forces since 2001, reaching a peak of more than 42,000 ally and partner forces, 6,300 NATO forces continue to serve today alongside the 6,900 United States forces there, and more than 1,100 NATO ally and partner forces have paid the ultimate price in service to the collective defense of NATO; Whereas NATO took the lead in helping combat the terrorist threat in Afghanistan through the International Security Assistance Force and Operation Resolute Support, contributing to the safety of the United States and the international community; Whereas all 28 NATO allies and many NATO partners are contributing to the Global Coalition to Counter the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant; Whereas approximately 18,000 military personnel are currently engaged in NATO missions around the world, conducting operations in Afghanistan, Kosovo, the Mediterranean, and off the Horn of Africa; Whereas NATO conducts a range of maritime security operations in the Mediterranean and is essential to establishing stability along the borders of Europe and to responding to the ongoing refugee and migrant crisis; Whereas, for nearly 10 years, NATO has provided airlift support for the mission of the African Union in Somalia, as well as assisted with training the African Standby Force at the request of the African Union; Whereas, for more than 17 years, NATO has led peace-support operations in Kosovo to maintain safety and security in a volatile region; Whereas NATO has three standing forces on active duty at all times to defend the Alliance, air policing capability, maritime forces, and an integrated air defense system; Whereas NATO allies and the international community continue to look to NATO to deter the increasingly revanchist activities of Russia; Whereas Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Joseph Dunford, testified before the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate on July 19, 2015, that Russia presents the “greatest existential threat” to the United States; Whereas the malign actions of Russia—its 2008 incursion into Georgia, its illegal annexation of Crimea, its continued military action in Ukraine, its targeting of civilians in Syria, its ongoing information war in Europe, its continued violations of the Intermediate Nuclear Forces Agreement, and its cyberattacks aimed at influencing United States elections—have violated international laws and norms; Whereas Russia continues to use disinformation campaigns and promote state propaganda to discredit democracy and undermine NATO members; Whereas, since the illegal annexation of Crimea and direct support to the conflict in Eastern Ukraine by Russia in 2014, NATO members have undertaken the biggest reinforcement of the collective defense of NATO since the end of the Cold War, enhancing allied readiness and deterrence measures in response to Russian aggression; Whereas the efforts of NATO to confront and deter Russian aggression in Eastern Europe have included a three-fold increase in the size of the NATO Response Force (NRF) to 40,000 troops; the creation of a Spearhead Force of 5,000 troops capable of deploying within a few days to respond to any threat against an ally, particularly on the eastern flank of NATO; the forward deployment of up to 4,000 troops to Poland, Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania; an increase in the air policing and maritime missions of NATO in Eastern Europe; and a significant increase in NATO training and military exercises in Eastern Europe; Whereas, following the invasion of Ukraine by Russia in 2014, the United States established Operation Atlantic Resolve and the European Reassurance Initiative to reassure NATO allies that the United States would uphold its global security commitments and work in coordination with European partners to deter Russian aggression; Whereas, since 2014, Operation Atlantic Resolve and the European Reassurance Initiative have demonstrated the continued commitment of the United States to its NATO allies and partners by engaging in deterrence and security measures against potential Russian aggression in the region; Whereas the United States is further strengthening its force presence in Europe through the continuous deployment of an armored brigade combat team to Poland on a rotating basis; Whereas, on January 6, 2017, as a part of Operation Atlantic Resolve, 3,500 United States troops from the 4th Infantry Division in Fort Carson, Colorado, along with more than 2,500 military vehicles, were deployed to Eastern Europe to deter regional aggression; Whereas continued United States leadership in NATO is critical to ensuring that NATO remains the greatest military alliance in history; Whereas all NATO members have recommitted themselves to sharing the security burden of NATO at the 2014 NATO Wales Summit by pledging to meet the defense spending target for NATO members of 2 percent of gross domestic product within 10 years; Whereas the United States, Greece, Poland, Estonia, and the United Kingdom all have exceeded that defense spending target; Whereas, since the Wales Summit, Latvia, Lithuania, and many other allies have increased defense spending in an effort to meet that defense spending target; Whereas NATO remains committed to its open door policy on enlargement, working with countries in the Euro-Atlantic region that aspire to join NATO to help meet the requirements for membership; Whereas, at the 2016 NATO Warsaw Summit, NATO Heads of State and Government formally invited Montenegro to become the 29th member of NATO; Whereas General James Jones, United States Marine Corps (retired), former National Security Advisor, testified before the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate in July 2016 that “[o]ur 27 NATO allies offer America forward basing, which allows us to better fight enemies like ISIS and deter adversaries like the new Russia and to meet shared challenges. Twenty-eight countries acting as one is a powerful alliance”; Whereas Secretary of Defense James Mattis, United States Marine Corps (retired), testified before the Committee of Armed Services of the Senate, during his hearing as nominee for Secretary of Defense, that “[w]e must also embrace our international alliances and security partnerships. History is clear: Nations with strong allies thrive and those without them wither”; Whereas there is a long tradition of strong bipartisan agreement that participation in NATO strengthens the security of the United States; Whereas NATO is the first peacetime military alliance the United States entered into outside the Western Hemisphere and today remains the largest peacetime military alliance in the world; Whereas a fractured NATO alliance would harm the interests of the United States and embolden adversaries of the United States; and Whereas a strong and united Europe is important to United States strategic interests: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the Senate— (1) pledges that the United States will continue to maintain strong leadership and strengthen its commitments to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (in this resolution referred to as “NATO”); (2) strongly encourages NATO members to fulfill their pledge to invest at least 2 percent of gross domestic product on defense spending, invest at least 20 percent of such spending on major equipment (including research and development), and shoulder appropriate responsibility within NATO; (3) recognizes the historic contribution and sacrifice NATO member countries have made while combating terrorism in Afghanistan through the International Security Assistance Force and Operation Resolute Support; and (4) honors the men and women who served under NATO and gave their lives to promote peace, security, and international cooperation since 1949. ###
02.07.2017	02.07.17 Gardner Votes to Confirm Betsy DeVos as Education Secretary Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statement following his vote to confirm Betsy DeVos as Secretary of the Department of Education. "As a product of public schools myself, and a father with one child - soon to be three - in the public school system, I believe it is important to have someone leading the Department of Education who will fight for public schools. When I had the opportunity to meet Betsy DeVos personally, she pledged to me that she would be an advocate for public schools, teachers and educational opportunity for all. The debate around her nomination has been a healthy exercise of our democracy, made all the more important because it involves our most precious possession, our children. As someone who believes education decisions should be left to parents and their children with policy driven locally, Congress will hold her accountable and I will work to ensure she lives up to the commitment she made to me. “The teachers in our lives play an outsized role as we grow into adults and throughout our adult life - and for good reason. They taught me that we must work together in common cause for a greater school, community and nation. I look forward to the great work ahead of us not as parents divided, but as people committed, in spite of these differences, to building a stronger education for our children and grandchildren." Video of Gardner’s statement is available to download here. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Subcommittee on Energy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
02.03.2017	02.03.17 Gardner Statement on Sanctions Against Iran Washington, DC – US Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, released the following statement after the announcement by the Trump Administration that a new wave of sanctions against Iran are being imposed: “I welcome today’s announcement of new sanctions against Iran,” Gardner said. "For eight years, the past administration failed to deal with the Iranian threat in any meaningful way, going so far as to enter into a flawed agreement that gave Iran tens of billions of dollars that allows them to keep testing ballistic missiles, financing terror groups, and threatening our closest ally, Israel. We must punish any and all behavior by the Iranian regime that threatens American interests and those of our close allies." ###
02.02.2017	02.02.17 Gardner Joins Effort to Lead Sanctions Against Russia Washington, DC – US Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, announced today that he is joining a bipartisan group of his Senate colleagues in cosponsoring S.94, the Counteracting Russian Hostilities Act of 2017. “Vladimir Putin’s continued aggression toward our allies in the region, and repeated malicious cyber activity against the United States needs to be dealt with now,” Gardner said. “Russia’s behavior must be met with strength in the form of aggressive sanctions to show the world that its actions will not be tolerated." Gardner immediately called for sweeping sanctions against Russia after the Obama Administration publicly accused Russia of authorizing cyber attacks against the U.S. In July of 2016, Gardner joined his colleagues in introducing a bipartisan resolution that calls on Russia to cease provocative military maneuvers that endanger U.S. Forces and urges its European allies and the international community to continue to apply pressure on Moscow. Later that month, Gardner sent a letter to the Obama Administration questioning its silence on reports of Russia's harassment and violence toward U.S. diplomats. Yesterday, Gardner met with Ukrainian former Prime Minister Yulia Tymoshenko, to express U.S. support for Ukraine and to condemn Russian aggression. ABOUT THE COUNTERING RUSSIAN HOSTILITIES ACT OF 2017 TITLE I: COUNTERING RUSSIAN CYBER INTRUSIONS On January 6, 2017, an Intelligence Community Assessment entitled “Assessing Russian Activities and Intentions in Recent U.S. Elections” assessed that “Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered an influence campaign in 2016 aimed at the US presidential election. The assessment warns that “Moscow will apply lessons learned from its Putin-ordered campaign aimed at the U.S. Presidential election to future influence efforts worldwide, including against U.S. allies and their election processes." Cyber Sanctions • The bill would impose mandatory visa bans and asset freezes those who undermine the cybersecurity of public or private infrastructure and democratic institutions. • The bill would impose mandatory sanctions on those who materially assist, sponsor, or provide financial, material, or technological support for such activities. • The bill would also impose mandatory sanctions on transactions with the Russian defense or intelligence sectors, including the FSB and GRU. • The bill also codifies the administration’s Executive Order 13694 and its related annex regarding cyber security and Russian interference in the 2016 election. Public Service Campaigns Related to Cybersecurity and Combating Disinformation • The bill mandates that the Secretary of Homeland Security conduct a series of public service campaigns to educate the public on threats to cybersecurity and urging better online practices to ensure better protection of online information. • The bill authorizes $25 million for fiscal years FY18 and FY19 for this programming. TITLE II: COUNTERING RUSSIAN AGGRESSION Russia continues to violate its international commitments by its 2008 invasion of Georgia, 2014 illegal annexation of Crimea in 2014, its ongoing destabilizing activities in eastern Ukraine. Russia has failed to comply with the terms of the Minsk Agreement and Protocol. In Syria, Russia has provided support to the Assad regime and engaged in a devastating military campaign which has targeted hospitals and medical facilities, resulting in thousands of civilian casualties. Ukraine/Syria-related sanctions • The bill would codify the four Obama Administration executive orders (EOs 13660, 13661, 13662, 13685) with respect to sanctions on Russia for its actions in Ukraine. • The bill would mandate sanctions on investments of $20 million or more in Russia’s ability to develop its petroleum and natural gas resources. • The bill would mandate sanctions the development of Russian energy pipelines. • Similarly, the bill would impose mandatory sanctions on investments in the development of civil nuclear projects by the Russian Federation. • The bill would impose mandatory sanctions on U.S. and third party investment in Russian privatization of state-owned assets and sales of sovereign debt. • The bill would impose visa ban and asset freezes on those responsible for the commission of serious human rights abuses in any territory occupied or controlled by Russia. Crimea/Georgia related provisions • The bill would not recognize Russia’s territorial changes effected by force alone. It would also prohibit any action or extend any assistance that recognizes or implies any recognition of the de jure or de facto sovereignty of Russia over Crimea, its airspace, or its territorial waters or the independence of South Ossetia or Abkhazia in Georgia. TITLE III: EUROPE AND EURASIA DEMOCRACY AND ANTI-CORRUPTION INITIATIVE Russia has sought to exert influence throughout Europe and Eurasia by overtly and covertly providing resources to political parties, think tanks, and civil society groups that sow distrust in democratic institutions, promote xenophobic and illiberal views. The Russian government has also engaged in well-documented corruption practices as a means toward undermining and buying influence in these European countries. This bill would support programs that build the resilience of democratic institutions in Europe against Russian aggression exerted through corruption, propaganda and other forms of political interference. Report on Advertising on Russian State-owned or Controlled Media. The bill mandates a report by the Secretary of State detailing media outlets controlled and funded by the Russian government as well as their advertisers with headquarters in the United States. Europe and Eurasia Democracy and Anti-Corruption Fund The State Department, Global Engagement Center and USAID are mandated to provide support for programming to: • improve democratic governance, transparency, accountability, rule of law, and combat corruption, including by strengthening democratic civil society and political parties, and independent and nonpartisan think tanks; • support the efforts of independent media outlets and public broadcasters to broadcast, distribute, and share information in all regions; • support objective, Russian-language, independent media, investigative journalism, and civil society watchdog groups working to combat corruption; • promote and protect Internet freedom; • support, as appropriate, the operations and activities of national anti-corruption and auditing offices; • support programs that strengthen independent judiciaries and prosecutor general offices; • strengthen cybersecurity practices of governments and civil society organizations; • support research and analysis on the effects of information warfare on target audiences and best practices for promoting resilience; • support evidence-based civic education and advocacy programs to strengthen resilience to misinformation; • encourage cooperation with social media companies to strengthen the integrity of information on the Internet; and • support programs to counter “fake news”. • The bill would authorize $100 million for these activities. Establishment of a Russia Unit in the Financial Crimes and Enforcement Network The bill mandates that the Secretary of Treasury establish a high level task force within the Department’s Financial Crimes and Enforcement Network that would focus on: • tracing, mapping, and prosecuting illicit financial flows linked to the Russian Federation if such flows interact with the United States financial system; • working with liaison officers in key United States embassies, especially in Europe, to work with local authorities to uncover and prosecute the networks responsible for the illicit Russian financial flows; and • seeking to expand the number of real estate geographic targeting orders beyond the number of cities to which such orders apply to capture more links to illicit financial flows. Sunset Provision • The bill would sunset ten years after enactment. ###
02.02.2017	02.02.17 Gardner, Bennet Introduce Colorado Public Lands Bills WASHINGTON —Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Michael Bennet (D-CO) today released the following statements after introducing five public lands bills pertinent to Colorado. “Colorado’s public lands are national treasures and I’m proud to work across the aisle to protect our state’s natural beauty,” said Gardner. “Each of these measures proposes a legislative fix that will have a lasting impact on Colorado and ensure future generations are able to enjoy Colorado’s great outdoors. I look forward to working with my colleagues to advance these bills through the legislative process.” “Our public lands define Colorado and help drive our outdoor recreation economy,” said Bennet. “These bipartisan, commonsense measures will help to preserve our pristine lands, protect wildlife habitats and expand outdoor access for years to come.” -The Bolts Ditch Access and Use Act would authorize special use of the Bolts Ditch headgate and the segment of the Bolts Ditch within the Holy Cross Wilderness Area, allowing Minturn to use its existing water right to fill Bolts Lake. This would solve a problem created in 1980 when Congress designated Holy Cross Wilderness area, but inadvertently left Bolts Ditch off of the list of existing water facilities. -The Florissant Fossil Beds National Monument legislation will allow for enhanced wildfire protection as well as additional habitat for wildlife and recreational opportunities for visitors. Established as a national monument in 1969, the Florissant Fossil Beds National Monument is located west of Pikes Peak and less than 40 miles from Colorado Springs. The monument is home to diverse fossil deposits, maintaining a collection of over 12,000 specimens. It also provides recreational experiences and curriculum-based education programs for its visitors. A private landowner submitted a proposal to donate 280 acres of land adjacent to Florissant Fossil Beds Monument, but due to current law the land donation cannot take place. This commonsense legislation would permit a landowner to donate private land to Florissant Fossil Beds National Monument. -The Wedge Act would aid the Forest Service in acquiring several parcels of land adjacent to Rocky Mountain National Park. This Act would help preserve critical wildlife habitat, Colorado River headwaters, and a highly visible view shed in the area commonly referred to as the Wedge. -The Crags, Colorado Land Exchange Act is a federal land exchange where the Forest Service would acquire pristine land in the Pike National Forest allowing for more outdoor recreation near Pikes Peak. -The Elkhorn Ranch and White River National Forest Conveyance Act would correct the discrepancy that took place from conflicting land surveys and require the Forest Service to convey acreage to private ownership that is rightfully private property, according to the Forest Service’s own conclusion and recommendation. For nearly 100 years, 148 acres of land has been used as private land even though it is included in Forest Service survey maps, and this legislation allows for the resolution between the Forest Service and the private landowner. ###
02.02.2017	02.02.17 Gardner Votes to Recommend Mick Mulvaney as Director of OMB Washington, DC – The Senate Budget Committee today approved the nomination of Mick Mulvaney to be Director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB). Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), a member of the Senate Budget Committee, voted in favor of Mulvaney’s nomination. “After eight years of reckless spending by the Obama Administration, Mick Mulvaney will bring much-needed fiscal restraint to the Office of Management and Budget,” said Gardner. “It’s far past time to get our fiscal house in order, and I look forward to working with the Administration to balance our budget and put our country back on the path to fiscal sustainability.” ###
02.01.2017	02.01.17 Gardner Joins Bill in Support of Colorado Craft Brewers Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), a member of the Senate Bipartisan Small Brewers Caucus, joined Senators Roy Blunt (R-MO) and Ron Wyden (OR) in introducing the Craft Beverage Modernization and Tax Reform Act. This bipartisan, bicameral legislation reduces federal excise taxes, eases compliance burdens, and streamlines federal regulations for the craft beverage industry. “Colorado is home to more than 350 small and independent brewers that employ more than 20,000 people. The industry contributes significantly to our state’s economy, and it’s important that Washington doesn’t stand in the way of its continued success,” said Gardner. “The Craft Beverage Modernization and Tax Reform Act addresses federal tax laws and regulations that inhibit small brewers’ growth so that they can continue to create jobs and boost communities across the four corners of Colorado and throughout our country.”
02.01.2017	02.01.17 Gardner Meets with Supreme Court Nominee Judge Neil Gorsuch Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statement following his meeting with Judge Neil Gorsuch, President Trump’s nominee to the Supreme Court. “I was honored to meet with fellow Coloradan, Judge Neil Gorsuch, today,” said Gardner. “He is an exceptional jurist who will bring an additional Western perspective to the Supreme Court, and I’m confident his opinions will have a positive impact on this country for generations to come. I urge my colleagues to expeditiously confirm this mainstream jurist who has proven that he understands the importance of putting personal beliefs aside and interpreting the law as written.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
01.31.2017	01.31.17 Gardner Statement on Supreme Court Nomination of Judge Neil Gorsuch WASHINGTON —Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statement on President Trump’s nomination of Judge Neil Gorsuch, who serves on the 10th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, to the Supreme Court: “Judge Gorsuch is one of our country’s brightest legal minds with significant experience as a federal judge and a private litigator. A former Supreme Court clerk for Justices Byron White and Anthony Kennedy, Judge Gorsuch has learned from some of the most exceptional, disciplined, and faithful interpreters of the law. He is an ardent defender of the Constitution and he has the appropriate temperament to serve on the nation’s highest court. Judge Gorsuch also adds to the court's Western perspective, with his understanding of uniquely Western issues like water and public lands issues. I’m enthusiastic about the native Coloradan’s nomination and will work to ensure that his confirmation process is fair, thorough, and expedient.” Video of Gardner’s statement is available to download here. Audio of Gardner’s statement is available to download here. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
01.31.2017	01.31.17 Gardner Named Chairman of the Energy and Natural Resources Subcommittee on Energy Washington, DC – U.S. Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today was named Chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Subcommittee on Energy. Gardner served on the Senate Energy and Natural Resources during the 114th Congress, and on the Energy and Commerce Committee while he represented Colorado’s fourth district in the U.S. House of Representatives. The Energy Subcommittee’s jurisdiction includes oversight, legislative and regulatory responsibilities for energy production and distribution and research and development for new technologies. “I’m honored to be named Chairman of the Energy Subcommittee and thank Chairman Murkowski for entrusting me with this important assignment,” said Gardner. “A strong and responsible energy policy is critical to unleashing our energy potential, and I look forward to using my new position to advance policy that benefits Coloradans and all Americans. I have long advocated for an all-of-the-above energy strategy, and that includes pursuing renewables, such as wind, solar, and geothermal, as well as conventional sources. I look forward to working with members of both parties toward solutions that reflect a balanced approach to achieving energy security.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy and Chairman of the Energy Subcommittee. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
01.31.2017	01.31.17 Gardner Votes to Recommend Ryan Zinke as Interior Secretary, Governor Rick Perry as Energy Secretary Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), a member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, today voted to recommend Rep. Ryan Zinke (R-MT) as Secretary of the Department of the Interior and Governor Rick Perry as Secretary of the Department of Energy: On Rep. Ryan Zinke as Interior Secretary: “Having someone who understands Western issues – ranging from the importance of the Land and Water Conservation Fund to the responsible procurement of our energy resources on our public lands - lead the Department of the Interior will have a positive effect on Colorado and the country as a whole. Rep. Zinke has dedicated his life to public service; he previously served our country valiantly as U.S. Navy Seal and now he represents the people of Montana in the House of Representatives. I’ve long stated that I will work to bring more of Colorado to Washington, and less of Washington to Colorado, and that’s why I enthusiastically supported a Westerner for the Secretary of the Interior post.” On Governor Rick Perry as Energy Secretary: “Governor Perry is a leader who I will work with to promote scientific research and the advancement of new technologies. When I met with Governor Perry, we discussed the importance of the Department of Energy’s National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL). NREL is an asset to not only Colorado, but our country and has proven to be instrumental in the advancement of the nation’s renewable energy and electrical grid modernization. Governor Perry is a strong manager who promotes an all-of-the-above energy strategy that will not only spur our economy, but keep our country safe.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
01.30.2017	01.30.17 Bipartisan, Bicameral Group of Lawmakers Introduce Energy Efficiency Legislation Washington, DC – Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO), Chris Coons (D-DE), Rob Portman (R-OH), and Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH) and Representatives Adam Kinzinger (R-IL) and Peter Welch (D-VT) introduced the Energy Savings Through Public-Private Partnerships Act of 2017, legislation that encourages the use of Energy Savings Performance Contracts (ESPCs) and Utility Energy Savings Contracts (UESCs) in federal buildings. Mandatory federal audits already outline energy savings projects for federal facilities aimed at reducing energy consumption and saving tax dollars; however, federal agencies are currently not required to implement these changes. This legislation changes that and would allow projects to be paid for by ESPCs or UESCs. ESPCs and UESCs are innovative public-private partnerships in which private companies use their own money and resources to make energy efficiency upgrades to federal buildings. In exchange for making energy efficient upgrades, those private companies receive a portion of the money saved as a result of the increased efficiency in federal buildings. ESPCs and UESCs create private sector jobs upgrading the federal government’s estimated three billion square feet of office space at no real cost to taxpayers. “Since my time in the House of Representatives, I’ve been proud to work with members of both parties to encourage energy efficiency,” said Senator Gardner. “Increasing federal buildings’ energy efficiency through public-private partnerships is commonsense - it will lead to the creation of private sector jobs, save American taxpayer dollars, and promote a cleaner environment.” “Saving energy and taxpayer money just makes sense with public/private partnerships like this, which is why this bill has bipartisan support,” Senator Coons said. “This legislation will simultaneously support local jobs, help the federal government save energy, and allow us to invest in clean energy, energy efficiency, and water conservation projects that are critical to our economic future.” “As the largest single user of energy in the United States, the federal government has a responsibility to lead by example on the issue of energy conservation,” said Senator Portman. “This bipartisan measure will help make the federal government more energy efficient, lower energy costs, and save taxpayer dollars, and that’s something I believe all Americans support.” “ESPCs and UESCs have proven to be a cost-effective way to reduce energy consumption, create private sector jobs and save taxpayers millions of dollars,” said Senator Shaheen. “Encouraging the use of these innovative tools will help to improve the energy efficiency of the Federal government, which is the nation’s largest energy user.” “Currently, the federal government is missing out on an estimated $20 billion in savings by continuing to run outdated, energy inefficient federal facilities,” Representative Kinzinger said. “The Energy Savings through Public Private Partnerships Act is a bipartisan, commonsense solution that is guaranteed to help end wasteful spending on inefficient energy programs in order to deliver savings to the American taxpayers who are footing these energy bills.” “The federal government has over 3 billion square feet of building space and is the largest energy consumer in the country,” Representative Welch said. “This legislation would make federal buildings energy efficient while saving taxpayer dollars, improving the environment and create private sector jobs. In the previous Congress, the House demonstrated that energy efficiency is a practical idea that cuts through partisan gridlock. In this Congress, we’ll be redoubling our efforts to get bipartisan energy efficiency legislation on the President’s desk.” ###
01.30.2017	01.30.17 Gardner Joins Bill to Protect Family Farms WASHINGTON —Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today announced he joined Senator John Thune (R-SD) in introducing the Death Tax Repeal Act, legislation to permanently repeal the federal estate tax, commonly known as the death tax. Rep. Kristi Noem (R-SD) introduced companion legislation in the House of Representatives. “Growing up on the Eastern Plains and working at my parent’s farm implement dealership allowed me to see the devastating impact the death tax has on Colorado families, particularly those in the agriculture community,” said Gardner. “Many families build their farms and small businesses with the hope of passing on their business, success, and opportunities to the next generation. The federal government shouldn’t profit from the death of a family member, and that’s why I’ve long supported the repeal of this onerous and unfair tax. It’s time to kill the death tax, and this legislation will do just that.” The Death Tax Repeal Act is supported by the American Farm Bureau Federation, Associated Builders and Contractors, National Association of Manufacturers, National Federation of Independent Business, Americans for Tax Reform, Club for Growth, National Black Chamber of Commerce, International Franchise Association, National Taxpayers Union, Family Business Coalition, the Family Business Estate Tax Coalition, and many others. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
01.30.2017	01.30.17 Gardner, Colorado Technology Association Announce Partnership To Gather Input from Colorado Tech Community Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), a member of the Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee, and the Colorado Technology Association today announced the One More Job/One More Innovation Initiative, a partnership that aims to gather input from Colorado’s technology sector and help enact legislative solutions to promote technology in Colorado and throughout the nation. Gardner and the Colorado Technology Association want to hear directly from the Colorado technology community about their ideas for federal legislative opportunities, federal regulations that should be repealed or reworked in order to spur innovation and the creation of new jobs, and any other challenges currently facing the Colorado tech community. “Our One More Job/One More Innovation Initiative aims to give the Colorado technology industry a voice at the table in Washington, D.C.,” said Gardner. “It’s important that Colorado ideas drive the decisions made in Washington. With the start of a new Congress and a new Administration, we must explore opportunities to work together to set a robust agenda. That’s why I’m excited to partner with the Colorado Technology Association to listen to Coloradans about how we can best grow the tech industry, work to target regulations they find burdensome, and pursue legislative solutions that will expand Colorado’s technology footprint and ensure the United States remains a global leader in this space.” “Colorado Technology Association aims to modernize laws as technology evolves and bridge our tech community with policy makers to further advance Colorado’s fast-moving tech ecosystem,” said Andrea Young, President and CEO, Colorado Technology Association. “This collaborative initiative with Sen. Gardner opens the door for our tech leaders to engage directly with government by providing insight and expertise on what will help them succeed and how to solidify Colorado’s standing as the definitive tech hub between the coasts.” Members of the Colorado technology community are encouraged to express their interest by contacting Colorado Technology Association. Send an email to innovationinitiative@coloradotechnology.org to register for this collaborative and interactive feedback process and include your name and contact information. According to the Colorado Technology Association, Colorado is home to more than 14,847 electronics and information technology companies who employ nearly 187,000 Coloradans in high-paying jobs. The Centennial State is a leader in entrepreneurial businesses with Boulder ranking first of all U.S. metro areas for startup density and Denver has been recognized as the second best place to launch a startup in the United States. ###
01.27.2017	01.27.17 Gardner, Bennet Announce 2017 Colorado Capital Conference Application Process Washington, DC –U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Michael Bennet (D-CO), Colorado Mesa University, and the University of Colorado invite Colorado residents to attend the 2017 Colorado Capital Conference in Washington, D.C., on June 21-23. The conference affords residents across Colorado a better understanding of the federal legislative process by giving them the opportunity to interact with members of Congress, the President’s cabinet, and other relevant leaders in Washington, D.C. “Without an informed public, representative democracy does not work. Events like the Colorado Capital Conference are an essential part of creating that informed public, and I’m grateful to Colorado Mesa University and the University of Colorado for organizing this gathering,” said Gardner. “This conference gives Coloradans an opportunity to interact with and learn from academics, business leaders, and policymakers, and, more importantly, gives those of us in public life a chance to hear and learn from Coloradans.” “Events like these allow us to listen to the voices we represent and learn more about what’s most important to them. After all, the best ideas for Colorado don’t come from Washington D.C. They come from Coloradans,” stated Bennet. “We are grateful to Colorado Mesa University, the University of Colorado, and Senator Cory Gardner for helping to arrange this conference. It’s an excellent opportunity to connect with the people who make Colorado a great place to live and work.” “A healthy republic relies upon active, informed citizen participation in every level of government,” Foster said. “This conference gives Coloradans an audience with key decision-makers in Washington, D.C.” “Our democracy works best when we have informed and engaged citizens, and the Capital Conference helps achieve both those imperatives. It is an excellent overview of how the legislative process works and it provides insight into how our government works. The conference is not only a great opportunity for participants, but also for elected officials and business and community leaders to hear from Coloradans about the issues important to them. We are proud to partner with Senators Bennet and Gardner, as well as President Tim Foster and Colorado Mesa University, to make this opportunity available,” University of Colorado President Bruce Benson stated. Participants who represent a diverse cross-section of the state will be selected through an application process. All applications must be received no later than March 27, 2017. Conference participants will be announced no later than April 7th. Participants are responsible for their own accommodations (at a group rate) and airfare. There is a $375 registration fee, which covers most meals and conference materials. For more information on the conference or to apply, visit www.coloradomesa.edu/capitalconference/ or call 970-623-9388. ###
01.27.2017	01.27.17 Gardner, Colleagues Introduce Bill to Authorize Delayed VA Medical Leases WASHINGTON —Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO), Mark R. Warner (D-VA), Susan Collins (R-ME), and a group of 14 other Senators, reintroduced the bipartisan Providing Veterans Overdue Care Act, legislation that would authorize pending leases for 24 Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) medical facilities in 15 states. The bill seeks to ensure veteran access to healthcare by authorizing these medical leases, which would allow the VA to maintain needed healthcare facilities for which the VA has been seeking congressional approval for more than a year. Under law, the VA must receive specific legislative authorization to lease medical facilities with average annual rental payments in excess of $1 million. However, since 2012, Congress has not, through a regular process, authorized any major VA medical facility leases, hampering the ability of the department to provide much-needed health care and services to veterans around the country. The 24 leases pending before Congress are located in states with an estimated 11 million veterans. “Our veterans deserve the best possible care and I am committed to working to make that a reality,” said Gardner. “Under current law, a VA outpatient clinic in Northern Colorado and a VA administrative office in Denver’s lease will expire unless Congress acts. This bill provides a legislative fix and ensures our veterans’ care is not interrupted. I look forward to working with my colleagues on this issue until this bill becomes law.” “Despite progress the V-A has made in recent years to improve access, too many veterans in Virginia and across the country are still waiting too long to get medical care through the V-A. While we have been able to reduce waiting times in the Hampton Roads region, we have a larger challenge ahead as the veteran population in the area grows at roughly four times the national average,” said Warner. “Veterans deserve a new outpatient facility in South Hampton Roads to help ease some of the burden at Hampton VAMC, and Congress needs to make the approval of these two dozen pending leases a top priority. Our veterans expect better from us, and this bill is a good step in the effort to improve veteran’s access to the services they have earned through their service to this country.” “Veterans deserve convenient access to the high-quality health care they have earned through their service. That is why I continue to urge my colleagues to support the authorization of these leases for vital medical facilities across the country, including in Portland, ME,” said Collins. “These facilities, such as the proposed CBOC in Portland, will allow veterans to receive outpatient care without the stress and difficulty of traveling to larger VA medical centers, which may be located far away from their homes.” One reason for the delay in congressional authorization has been a recent change in the way that the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) scores these leases. Prior to 2012, the major medical facility leases were scored on an annual basis, but that year, CBO determined that budget authority for these leases, many of which cover a 20-year period, should be recorded up front when the leases are initiated and the acquisition occurs, not when the debt is repaid. As such, scoring for legislation that authorized these leases increased significantly, even though actual spending would not increase and the leases are ultimately subject to annual appropriations. The bill would authorize the following leases: • Ann Arbor, MI - Outpatient Clinic • Birmingham, AL - Outpatient Mental Health Clinic • Birmingham, AL - Outpatient Specialty Clinic • Boston, MA – Research Space • Charleston, SC – Research Space • Corpus Christi, TX – Replacement Outpatient Clinic • Daytona Beach, FL - Outpatient Clinic • Denver, CO - Chief Business Office Purchased Care • Gainesville, FL - Outpatient Clinic • Hampton Roads, VA - Outpatient Clinic • Jacksonville, FL – Outpatient Clinic • Mission Bay, CA – Research Space • Missoula, MT - Outpatient Clinic • Northern Colorado, CO - Outpatient Clinic • Ocala, FL - Outpatient Clinic • Oxnard, CA - Outpatient Clinic • Pike County, GA - Outpatient Clinic • Pontiac, MI – Outpatient Clinic • Portland, ME - Outpatient Clinic • Raleigh, NC - Outpatient Clinic • Rochester, NY – Outpatient Clinic • Santa Rosa, CA - Outpatient Clinic • Tampa, FL – Outpatient Clinic • Terre Haute, IN – Outpatient Clinic ###
01.25.2017	01.25.17 Gardner, Coons Introduce Legislation to Create Select Committee on Cybersecurity Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Senator Chris Coons (D-DE) introduced legislation to establish a Senate Select Committee on Cybersecurity that would have jurisdiction over cybersecurity and cyberspace issues. Currently, multiple Senate Committees have jurisdiction over cybersecurity. During the 114th Congress, at least 20 standing committees between the House of Representatives and the Senate held hearings related to cybersecurity. The purpose of the narrowly-focused committee is to oversee and strengthen U.S. data breach prevention strategy and cyber activities. Among its responsibilities similar to a standing committee, the Select Committee on Cybersecurity would be authorized to investigate issues within its jurisdiction, make recommendations, and report legislation. The committee would be composed of 21 members, including the chair and ranking members of the Appropriations Committee; Armed Services Committee; Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs Committee; Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee; Foreign Relations Committee; Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee; Select Committee on Intelligence; and Judiciary Committee. Additionally, Senate leadership will appoint five members from the Senate at large. “Cybersecurity policy is one of the most complex and significant challenges facing Congress, yet the Senate’s structure to investigate and address cyber issues is diffuse and inadequate. This has led to an uncoordinated policy response to recent cyber attacks on government agencies, businesses, and infrastructure,” said Senator Gardner. “The scope of the cyber threat is as varied as the actors who are responsible for them and the consequences of potential attacks. Therefore, as cyber risks threats evolve so must U.S. cybersecurity policy. The establishment of a Select Committee on Cybersecurity is essential to investigating emerging cyber risks and bolstering our defenses against them through legislative solutions, and I’m hopeful that my colleagues recognize that a centralized structure is the best path forward to effectively tackle the cyber challenge.” "In the Internet age, Americans’ fundamental freedoms depend more than ever on robust cybersecurity, which is vital to ensure the free flow of information, the protection of intellectual property, the privacy of our citizens, and the sanctity of our democratic process," said Senator Coons. "Russia's direct attack on the U.S. election, the 2015 Chinese hack into the Office of Personnel Management (OPM), multiple intrusions into unclassified government networks, and efforts to compromise U.S. financial and industrial control systems all indicate that gaps exist in United States cyber defenses – and that Congress maintains a 20th century framework to respond quickly and effectively to these 21st century challenges. The consequences of such attacks will only grow in years to come. By establishing the permanent Senate Select Committee on Cybersecurity, this bill will give Congress the tools to comprehensively investigate and respond to cyber intrusions, take proactive steps to protect against and respond to future attacks, and hold the executive branch accountable for its actions. A challenge as complex as cybersecurity demands congressional responsibilities and authorities be as clear, direct, and nonpartisan as possible. This bill represents a significant step in that direction." The text of the bill can be found here. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
01.24.2017	01.24.17 Gardner Votes to Recommend Wilbur Ross as Secretary of Commerce, Secretary Elaine Chao as Secretary of Transportation Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), a member of the Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee, today released the below statements after voting in favor of recommending Wilbur Ross as Secretary of Commerce and Secretary Elaine Chao as Secretary of Transportation: On Wilbur Ross as Secretary of Commerce: “Mr. Ross has decades of experience in the private sector and a firm grasp on how to grow our economy and our workforce. When I met with Mr. Ross, I spoke about the importance of rural economic development, the necessity of making more federal spectrum holdings available for commercial use, and the need to increase American exports through a robust trade agenda. Mr. Ross understands that we must deliver relief to Main Street towns across the country, and I’m confident that his extensive experience will guide his efforts to strengthen our economy and increase opportunities for Americans everywhere.” On Secretary Elaine Chao as Secretary of the Department of Transportation: “Previously Secretary of Labor and Deputy Secretary of Transportation, Secretary Chao has significant administration experience and a long record of public service. She recognizes how critical it is that we modernize and invest in our infrastructure in order to grow our economy in Colorado and boost communities throughout the country. Secretary Chao is committed to working toward innovative funding solutions for transportation projects, and I’m supportive of her approach to improving our transportation system.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
01.24.2017	01.24.17 Gardner Votes to Recommend Governor Nikki Haley as UN Ambassador Washington, DC – The Senate Foreign Relations Committee today recommended the Senate confirm Governor Nikki Haley as Ambassador to the United Nations (UN). A member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) voted in favor of Governor Haley’s nomination. “The UN is in desperate need of U.S. leadership, particularly when it comes to standing up for one of our closest allies, Israel, and standing up to rogue regimes like Iran and North Korea. During her confirmation hearing, Governor Haley rejected the UN’s condemnation of Israel and committed to serving as a strong advocate for American principles of freedom and democracy. The United States must support its allies through action, and Governor Haley has demonstrated that she is willing to be a strong voice on behalf of the United States in the UN.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
01.23.2017	01.23.17 Gardner Statement on Confirmation of Mike Pompeo as CIA Director Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statement after voting in favor of confirming Mike Pompeo as Director of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA): “At a time when we are facing many evolving threats around the world, it is important that our chief intelligence officer is prepared to face them head on to protect Americans at home and abroad. I will work with the incoming CIA Director to protect privacy as he works to protect America. Mr. Pompeo’s background as a U.S. Army veteran and member of the House Intelligence Committee will serve him well as the Director of the CIA.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
01.23.2017	01.23.17 Gardner Votes to Recommend Rex Tillerson as Secretary of State Washington, DC – The Senate Foreign Relations Committee today recommended the Senate confirm Rex Tillerson as Secretary of State. A member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) voted in favor of Rex Tillerson’s nomination. “During his confirmation hearing, Mr. Tillerson communicated that he would be tough on Russia, stand up to China’s aggression in the South China Sea, and continue to pursue sanctions against North Korea, including full enforcement of my North Korea Policy Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act,” said Gardner. “Mr. Tillerson recognizes that years of failed foreign policy requires a new direction of strength toward our adversaries and bolstered support for our allies, and I was pleased the Foreign Relations Committee recommended his confirmation.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
01.20.2017	01.20.17 Gardner Votes to Confirm Mattis, Kelly Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statements after voting in favor of confirming General James Mattis as Secretary of Defense and General John Kelly as Secretary of Homeland Security. On General James Mattis as Secretary of Defense: “General Mattis is a proven leader who has served our country valiantly for more than four decades. A four-star general, he made clear during his confirmation hearing that he understands the importance of supporting our allies and military alliances and standing up to key threats, including Russia. Now, General Mattis assumes a new role in public service and I’m confident in his ability to lead the Department of Defense.” On General John Kelly as Secretary of Homeland Security: “General Kelly has a distinguished record of service to our country and the commitment required to serve as Secretary of Homeland Security. He has seen first-hand the challenges our country faces when it comes to securing our borders, and has the experience, dedication, and vigilance to fight homegrown terrorism and keep our country safe.”
01.20.2017	01.20.17 Gardner Statement on the Inauguration of Donald J. Trump Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statement following the inauguration of Donald J. Trump as the 45th President of the United States of America: “After a divisive political election, our country came together today to celebrate the inauguration of a new President and witness a proud American tradition, the peaceful transfer of power. I echo President Trump’s call for unity in his inaugural address and truly believe that regardless of individual political ideology, we all have something in common: a shared love for our nation and the desire to pass on a better America with more opportunities to the next generation. I continue to believe that our country’s best days are ahead, and I look forward to working with the incoming Administration to grow our economy and encourage job creation across the four corners of Colorado and throughout our great nation.” Press Contact
01.19.2017	01.19.17 Gardner Reopens Committee to Fill Colorado Judicial Vacancy Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today announced an additional opportunity to apply for the vacancy on the U.S. District Court for the District of Colorado, one of the busiest courts in the country with more than 500 weighted cases per judgeship. The number of judgeships on the court – seven – has remained the same for over 30 years, despite the state’s population growing by more than 70 percent and judicial workload remaining well above the national average. The vacancy was created on the court in April 2016 when Judge Robert Blackburn moved to senior status. Eight months prior to the vacancy, Gardner announced his office established a Judicial Evaluation Committee to identify qualified applicants to fill the vacancy. In November 2015, Gardner recommended four potential nominees the White House. While President Obama nominated one of Gardner’s recommendations, the nominee was not confirmed. “The search to fill the Colorado judgeship began nearly a year prior to the vacancy in order to ensure that an already busy court is not understaffed,” said Gardner. “It is critical that the process to fill the vacancy remains thorough and expeditious. That is why I have requested the Judicial Evaluation Committee provide recommendations within 30 days so that I can send potential nominees to President-elect Trump as soon as possible.” Those interested in applying for the vacancy must submit an initial application, which is available online here. Completed applications must be submitted by January 30, 2017 to the following email: ColoradoVacancy@gmail.com. Finalists will be asked to complete a more in-depth application prior to interviewing with the Committee. Individuals who applied through the last process and wish to be considered again must submit this initial application. The Judicial Evaluation Committee consists of leaders in the Colorado legal field who served on the prior Committee: Jon Anderson, (Chair) Holland and Hart Michael O'Donnell, Wheeler Trigg O'Donnell Raymond M. Deeny, Sherman and Howard Robert Miller, Perkins Coie (Retired) ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
01.19.2017	01.19.17 Gardner Statement on Pruitt’s Commitment to Review EPA Decision on Gold King Mine Spill Claims Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today reacted to President-elect Trump’s intended nominee to lead the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), Scott Pruitt, and his commitment to reviewing the EPA’s decision to deny claims under the Federal Tort Claims Act (FTCA) for any injury or economic loss arising out of the Gold King Mine spill in August 2015. Attorney General Pruitt stated his commitment during his Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works confirmation hearing. “I applaud Attorney General Pruitt’s commitment to review the EPA’s decision to not process FTCA claims related to the Gold King Mine spill,” said Gardner. “The EPA is responsible for the injury and economic losses that took place in Southwest Colorado, and that’s why I’ve worked to see that the agency is held accountable and that my constituents are made whole. This commitment is a step in the right direction. I will continue to work toward fixing the Obama Administration’s broken promise.” Click here to view the video. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
01.16.2017	01.16.17 Gardner Celebrates Martin Luther King, Jr. Day Marches in Denver’s MLK Day Marade Washington – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement marking Martin Luther King, Jr. Day: “Today we honor the life and legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.,” said Gardner. “Dr. King changed the world through his actions because he taught the world to value unity, tolerance, and love above all else. Every year, on MLK Day, we remember Dr. King’s call and continue to work together as a nation to fulfill his dream. I am fortunate to celebrate Dr. King with Coloradans at today’s MLK Day Marade in Denver, and am honored to participate in such a meaningful ceremony.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
01.13.2017	01.13.17 Gardner, Bennet, Tipton Express Disappointment Over EPA’s Refusal to Pay Gold King Mine Claims Lawmakers Vow to Introduce Legislative Fix Washington, DC – Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Michael Bennet (D-CO), along with Congressman Scott Tipton (CO-3), today released the below statements regarding the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) decision to not receive and process claims under the Federal Tort Claims Act (FTCA) for any injury or economic loss arising out of the Gold King Mine spill in August 2015. EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy spoke with the lawmakers earlier today to inform them the EPA will not reimburse the 73 individuals and tribes who filed claims under the FTCA. “I spoke with EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy earlier today and she informed me the EPA is not processing these claims,” said Gardner. “This decision is disappointing and I plan to work with Senator Bennet and Congressman Tipton on legislation to ensure my constituents are made whole from this EPA-born spill. Last Congress, I introduced a bill that would expedite the FTCA claims and prohibit the government from using the discretionary function exception under the FTCA in relation to receiving and processing these claims. I will continue this effort with Senator Bennet and Congressman Tipton and work for a legislative fix to the EPA’s decision. When the law allows the government to hide from those whom it has harmed, the law must change. Gardner added: “Furthermore, EPA must expeditiously reimburse all state, local, and tribal governments for response costs, which a provision of the Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation Act (WIIN Act) I authored mandates. I sent a letter demanding these payments be made in December and will continue to advocate for my constituents. Coloradans deserve better from their government and I plan on working to hold the agency accountable.” “The record is clear that the Environmental Protection Agency was responsible for the spill. It is extremely disappointing that the EPA has categorically rejected every single claim filed under the Federal Tort Claims Act. The agency has broken its promise to make our communities whole in the days after the spill,” Bennet said. “We introduced legislation authorizing the EPA to reimburse businesses, tribes, governments, and individuals for damages from the Gold King Spill. We will continue to work with affected states to ensure that all victims are compensated for their losses. We will also continue to push for local governments to receive full reimbursement from the EPA for costs incurred due to the spill.” “It is hard to believe that the EPA has determined existing statute prohibits the agency from taking full responsibility and remedial actions following the Gold King Mine spill, when the agency has so clearly shown little regard for statute in implementing its regulatory agenda over the past eight years,” said Tipton. “After the EPA’s irresponsible actions led to the release of three million gallons of contaminated water into Cement Creek and the Animas River, the agency said it would make sure that wronged parties were made whole. The news today is a complete departure from that commitment, and our states, local governments, and tribes can rest assured that we will continue to work to make the EPA accountable for the mess they have made.” ###
01.13.2017	01.13.17 Gardner Announces $240,000 DHS Countering Violent Extremism Grant for Denver Police Department Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today announced the Denver Police Department will receive a $240,000 Countering Violent Extremism Grant from the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to be utilized for training and engagement. “As violent extremists continue to pose a threat to our homeland, we must do everything we can to counter these threats and keep Coloradans safe,” said Gardner. “Whether it’s radical Islamic extremists or homegrown domestic terror groups trying to do us harm, our police officers must be properly trained to prevent an attack. I’m pleased the Department of Homeland Security has provided the Denver Police Department with these critical funds because it is our local law enforcement officers who know how to best keep our communities safe. The Denver Police Department has my full support, and I will continue to do everything I can to ensure Colorado law enforcement has the necessary tools to combat terrorism and root out violent extremists.” In announcing the grant, Secretary of Homeland Security Jeh Johnson stated, “In 2016, Congress answered our call for federal grants, awarded and administered by the Department of Homeland Security, to support local efforts to counter violent extremism. Today, I am pleased to announce the first round of awards of these grants. “A total of 31 proposals, from various organizations in multiple communities, have been accepted to receive some part of the $10 million appropriated by Congress last year. The funding will go for activities that include intervention, developing resilience, challenging the narrative, and building capacity. The organizations approved for grants include local governments, universities, and non-profit organizations, in locations across the country such as Boston, Minneapolis, Los Angeles, Detroit, Nebraska, Houston, Illinois, New Jersey, Texas and New York City. Among the awardees are organizations devoted specifically to countering ISIL’s recruitment efforts in our homeland, and Life After Hate, an organization devoted to the rehabilitation of former neo-Nazis and other domestic extremists in this country. “In this age of self-radicalization and terrorist-inspired acts of violence, domestic-based efforts to counter violent extremism have become a homeland security imperative. And, I know from visiting numerous communities across this country that very often the best efforts to counter violent extremism are local, tailored to a particular community. My hope is that Congress will continue to fund this type of grant activity in the future. Again, this is a homeland security imperative.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
01.12.2017	01.12.17 Gardner Joins Resolution Opposing UN Action Against Israel Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced he joined his colleagues in supporting a resolution, led by Senators Marco Rubio (R-FL) and Ben Cardin (D-MD), that firmly opposes United Nations (UN) Security Council Resolution 2334 and all efforts to undermine negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians. “President Obama’s decision to abstain from the UN Security resolution vote condemning Israel is a direct affront to our friend and ally, Israel. This is yet another example of the Obama Administration’s failed foreign policy and illustrative of his actions that undermine our allies and strengthen our enemies,” said Gardner. “This bipartisan resolution formally objects to the UN’s efforts to delegitimize Israel and sends a message to the world that we stand with Israel. I urge the incoming Trump Administration to recognize the importance of the relationship with our closest ally, Israel, and work to reiterate our unwavering support.” The resolution: Expresses grave objection to United Nations Security Council Resolution 2334 (2016); Calls for United Nations Security Council Resolution 2334 to be repealed or fundamentally altered so that it is no longer one-sided and allows all final status issues toward a two-state solution to be resolved through direct bilateral negotiations between the parties; Rejects efforts by outside bodies, including the United Nations Security Council, to impose solutions from the outside that set back the cause of peace; Demands that the United States ensure that no action is taken at the Paris Conference on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict scheduled for January 15, 2017, that imposes an agreement or parameters on the parties; Notes that granting membership and statehood standing to the Palestinians at the United Nations, its specialized agencies, and other international institutions outside of the context of a bilateral peace agreement with Israel would cause severe harm to the peace process, and would likely trigger the implementation of penalties under sections 7036 and 7041(j) of the Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2016 (division K of Public Law 114–113); Rejects any efforts by the United Nations, United Nations agencies, United Nations member states, and other international organizations to use United Nations Security Council Resolution 2334 to further isolate Israel through economic or other boycotts or any other measures, and urges the United States Government to take action where needed to counter any attempts to use United Nations Security Council Resolution 2334 to further isolate Israel; Urges the current presidential administration and all future presidential administrations to uphold the practice of vetoing all United Nations Security Council resolutions that seek to insert the Council into the peace process, recognize unilateral Palestinian actions including declaration of a Palestinian state, or dictate terms and a timeline for a solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict; Reaffirms that it is the policy of the United States to continue to seek a sustainable, just, and secure two-state solution to resolve the conflict between the Israelis and the Palestinians; and Urges the incoming Administration to work with Congress to create conditions that facilitate the resumption of direct, bilateral negotiations without preconditions between Israelis and Palestinians with the goal of achieving a sustainable agreement that is acceptable to both sides. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
01.11.2017	01.11.17 Ernst, Gardner Introduce Bill to Expand Access to Safe, Effective Contraception Washington, DC – Senators Joni Ernst (R-IA) and Cory Gardner (R-CO) re-introduced the Allowing Greater Access to Safe and Effective Contraception Act, paving the way for contraceptives to be sold over-the-counter without a prescription. Additionally, Congresswomen Mia Love (R-UT) and Barbara Comstock (R-VA) introduced the companion legislation in the U.S. House of Representatives. The Allowing Greater Access to Safe and Effective Contraception Act incentivizes manufacturers of routine-use contraceptives to file an application with the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to sell their products over the counter (OTC). These incentives apply to any contraceptive the FDA deems to be safe and effective for routine OTC use and available to adults over the age of 18. Additionally, the legislation repeals the Affordable Care Act’s restriction on the use of health, medical, and flexible savings accounts to purchase over-the-counter drugs without a prescription. "The Allowing Greater Access to Safe and Effective Contraception Act is straightforward: it gives women the ability to purchase contraception over-the-counter,” said Senator Ernst. “Women wear many hats in their increasingly busy, daily lives; they should have the ability to access routine use contraception directly from their local pharmacy. This bill provides them with the opportunity to do just that.” “It’s important that Congress adopt a modern and commonsense approach to contraception,” said Senator Gardner. “Selling safe and effective oral contraceptives over-the-counter to adults will inevitably drive down costs and afford women the convenience to access their medication on their time. Our legislation recognizes the need to make contraceptives affordable and accessible, and it’s time that Congress put politics aside to allow women the ability to make their own decisions about safe, effective, and long-established methods of contraception.” “American women deserve to have safe, affordable, convenient and effective options for contraceptives available to them without the expense and hassle of government barriers,” said Congresswoman Love. “This bill would provide more options and better access. It’s time to put women in the driver’s seat of their own health care decisions.” “I join Senators Ernst and Gardner and my House colleague Congresswoman Mia Love (R-UT), in support of legislation to make birth control pills available over-the-counter for adult women,” said Congresswoman Comstock. “Allowing over-the-counter sales of oral contraceptives would enhance women’s access, put decisions in their hands, modernize the health care system, and lower birth control costs. It is a common sense solution that could bring people together and help in ending birth control politics.” Key provisions of the Allowing Greater Access to Safe and Effective Contraception Act: Incentivizes manufacturers of contraceptives to file an application for a prescription-to-over-the-counter switch (Rx-to-OTC switch) by: Allowing priority review for contraceptive Rx-to-OTC switch applications. Waiving the FDA filing fee for contraceptive Rx-to-OTC switch applications. Makes these incentives available to: Contraceptives intended for routine-use that, if found to be safe and effective for OTC use by the FDA, would be made available OTC to adults aged 18 and above. Allows women greater access and ability to save for their health care needs by: Repealing the Affordable Care Act’s (ACA) prohibition on the use of health savings accounts, medical savings accounts, and flexible spending accounts (FSAs) to purchase OTC drugs without a prescription. Repealing the ACA’s annual limits on FSA contributions. ###
01.10.2017	01.10.17 Gardner Seeks Input from Colorado Farmers and Ranchers Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today sent a letter to Don Shawcroft, President of the Colorado Farm Bureau, asking for input from him and farmers and ranchers across the state on what legislative priorities are important to Colorado’s agriculture communities. Gardner is a passionate advocate for farmers, ranchers and rural Coloradans and has spent his time in public office championing agriculture. Last year, Gardner was awarded the Colorado Farm Bureau’s Service to Agriculture Award. The Service to Agriculture Award is given to one individual within the Colorado Farm Bureau and one individual outside of the organization annually to recognize their service to the industry and is the organization’s highest honor. In August, Gardner concluded his Second Annual Colorado Farm Tour – meeting with local farm bureaus, traveling over 1,600 miles, making more than 30 stops, and visiting 27 counties on the Western Slope and Eastern Plains. The letter reads in full: Dear Don: I write to thank you for the service you provide to Colorado agriculture and the 36,000 farms and ranches across the state that depend on the services provided by organizations like the Colorado Farm Bureau. As we move forward into a new Congress and new Administration, I want to hear from Colorado Farm Bureau and our state’s farmers and ranchers on how we can work together to support growth in Colorado’s agriculture industry. With various commodity prices dropping close to 20 percent between 2013 and 2015, I would like to know what legislative priorities you believe will assist in helping to turn around this trend. Whether it is regulations or legislation, it is important for the Administration and Congress to understand the impact of their policies, and agriculture is no exception. I look forward to hearing from you and farmers and ranchers throughout the state on how we can work together to ensure Colorado agriculture continues to be effectively represented in Washington. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
01.10.2017	01.10.17 ICYMI: Gardner Reiterates Call for Select Cybersecurity Committee on CNN Discusses Iran, North Korea Threats with CNN’s Wolf Blitzer Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, appeared on CNN’s The Situation Room with Wolf Blitzer to discuss national security threats. Click here to watch the entire interview. On Iran Harassing U.S. Naval Ships: “What we have seen over the past several years under Barack Obama's Administration is an emboldened Iran. They are emboldened because their sanctions have been relieved. They have received billions of dollars as a result of sanctions being lifted. That's why today we also saw the news that they are increasing their defense spending; they’re developing and continuing to infuse cash into a continental ballistic missile program. These actions should surprise no one. We have seen their aggression in the Strait of Hormuz and we have seen the U.S. have to fire warning shots toward Iranian ships. We have seen the illegal seizure of U.S. sailors and the embarrassing response when it happened.” On the Need for a Permanent Select Committee on Cybersecurity: “What I believe we ought to do, and I’ve advocated for this for well over a year now, is create a permanent select committee on cybersecurity. That way we can have a whole of government view, or a whole of government approach, to cybersecurity policy that can address Russia, that can address Iran, that can address North Korea. The Russian revelations - it’s not new. It is something we learned about over the summer. The President didn't respond in a forceful manner, just like he didn't respond to Ukraine in a forceful manner, just like he didn't respond to Syria in a forceful manner. He didn't respond to North Korea in a forceful manner as a result of the Sony attacks, didn’t respond to Iranian cyberattacks against infrastructure in this country. We ought to have a policy set in place that can be overseen by a permanent committee on cybersecurity to make sure we are addressing it all.” On North Korea’s ICBM Threat: “They [North Korea] have the capacity to miniaturize them [nuclear weapons], and they are working each and every day on the capacity to deliver that to the United States homeland. We know they have been able to reach out, that's why we are in the region, to our allies. That's why we are working on the deployment of THAAD, which is the Terminal High Altitude Area Defense System, to shoot down anything they could fire that way. I believe we need to expedite that. I hope [the Trump Administration] will support that effort. The bottom line is this: North Korea presents a significant challenge to the safety of the American people. We have to stand strong with our allies like Japan and South Korea and force China to do what they can to put an end to the nuclear program in North Korea.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
01.10.2017	01.10.17 Gardner Meets with Betsy DeVos, Intended Secretary of Education Nominee Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today met with Betsy DeVos, President-elect Trump’s intended nominee for Secretary of Education. “I enjoyed meeting with Betsy DeVos, President-elect Trump’s intended nominee for Secretary of Education,” said Gardner. “Ms. DeVos’s commitment to rolling back Common Core and returning control over our children’s education back to the states and local communities where it belongs makes her a strong choice to lead the Department of Education. Ms. DeVos understands we need less Washington, D.C. in our schools, and I look forward to working with her to ensure the next generation has access to a world-class education.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
01.09.2017	01.09.17 Gardner Statement on Iran’s Boost in Military Spending Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, today released the below statement on reports that Iran more than doubled its military spending, including funding for the development of its missile program, from the previous year: “Iran’s expansion of its military and development of its missile program is a consequence of President Obama’s disastrous nuclear deal with Iran. Not only did the President’s deal provide Tehran a patient pathway to a nuclear bomb, it handed the mullahs over $100 billion to use for spreading terror around the world,” said Gardner. “I will continue to work with my colleagues to address the damage of the agreement by calling for immediate sanctions on Iran for its support of terror, a missile program, and human rights abuses. I urge the incoming Administration to support these actions to stop Iran’s aggression.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
01.09.2017	01.09.17 Gardner Joins Bipartisan Internet of Things Working Group Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today announced he has joined the bipartisan Internet of Things Working Group within the Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee. Senators Deb Fischer (R-NE), Cory Booker (D-NJ), and Brian Schatz (D-HI) remain members of the working group, which focuses on federal policy that keeps pace with Internet of Things innovations. “I’m excited to join the Internet of Things Working Group and I look forward to working closely with Senators Booker, Fischer, and Schatz to ensure that policy keeps pace with innovation,” said Gardner. “In order for America to compete globally, it’s essential that the federal government recognizes how important connected technologies are to the modern economy and the challenges that come with them. The issues the working group focuses on touch all of our daily lives, and I’m proud to have the opportunity to work with my colleagues to explore how to best foster the Internet of Things and boost economic growth.” “Last Congress, our bipartisan Internet of Things Working Group had many successes and I’m optimistic that we can build on that progress. I thank Senator Gardner for his willingness to join our efforts on this important issue. I look forward to working with him as we plan for the growth of this interconnected network that will help our communities and businesses flourish,” said Sen. Fischer. Sen. Booker said, "I look forward to Sen. Gardner joining our bipartisan efforts to explore the Internet of Things. Emerging technologies can bring major social and economic benefits to the American people and our bipartisan approach aims to underscore this potential." “I’m happy to have Senator Gardner onboard, and I look forward to working with him,” said Sen. Schatz. “The Internet of Things has enormous potential, and we need to continue to work on a bipartisan basis to create meaningful policies that will empower consumers and promote the use of IoT.” ###
01.06.2017	01.06.17 President Signs Gardner-Peters American Innovation and Competitiveness Act Into Law Washington, DC – President Obama today signed the American Innovation and Competitiveness Act, a bicameral, bipartisan legislative compromise originally introduced by Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Gary Peters (D-MI), along with John Thune (R-SD), and Bill Nelson (D-FL). The first major update to federal research and technology policy to originate in the Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee in more than a decade, this legislation maximizes basic research opportunities, reduces administrative burdens for researchers, encourages scientific entrepreneurship, and promotes oversight of taxpayer-funded research. The legislation also promotes diversity in STEM fields, incentivizes private-sector innovation, and boosts manufacturing. It most directly affects programs within the National Science Foundation (NSF), National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), and the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP). During a Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee hearing, Former National Science Board official Dr. Kelvin Droegemeier stated, “This committee has already addressed one of the greatest long-term threats to American innovation: You’ve made science bipartisan again, countering rhetoric that has at times made the research community feel under siege.” “I’m proud to see the President sign the American Innovation and Competitiveness Act into law today. A strong, bipartisan effort, this legislation is the result of nearly two years of work to gather input from the scientific community, universities, and interested stakeholders,” said Senator Gardner. “I thank Chairman Thune, Ranking Member Nelson, and Senator Peters for their leadership and hard work to not only make science bipartisan again, but ensure that America stays at the forefront of cutting-edge research and development.” “I’m pleased the President signed into law this important bipartisan bill that will ensure America maintains a competitive edge in the global economy,” said Senator Peters, Ranking Member of the Space, Science and Competitiveness Subcommittee. “Scientific research and innovation are the foundation of a strong economy, and the American Innovation and Competitiveness Act will help leverage federal investments in basic research, strengthen STEM education to train a skilled workforce and support small and medium sized manufacturers to keep our country internationally competitive. I was honored to work with Chairman Thune, Ranking Member Nelson and Senator Gardner to craft this vital legislation that will help our economy continue to grow.” Highlights of the American Innovation and Competitiveness Act Maximizing Basic Research • Highlights Peer Review: Reaffirms the appropriateness of the National Science Foundation’s (NSF’s) intellectual merit and broader impacts criteria used to evaluate grant proposals. • Keeps Government Accountable to Taxpayers: Promotes transparency by requiring public notices of grants to justify the project’s expenditures and confirm that they align with NSF’s priorities. • Broadens Research Opportunities: Updates NSF’s Experimental Program to Stimulate Competitive Research (EPSCoR) to continue promoting groundbreaking research in states that receive relatively little federal research money. • Modernizes Existing Programs: Includes updates to the Networking and Information Technology Research and Development (NITRD) programs, and the National Institute of Standards and Technology’s (NIST’s) laboratory and education outreach programs. Administrative and Regulatory Burden Reduction • Reduces Paperwork Burdens: Establishes an inter-agency working group to provide recommendations on eliminating unnecessary paperwork for researchers and institutions. • Streamlines Government: Repeals obsolete agency reports and unfunded government programs. Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics • Enhances Scientific Community Input: Establishes a STEM Advisory Panel composed of academic and industry representatives to provide recommendations on federal STEM programs. • Promotes Diversity in STEM Fields: Creates a working group to study how to improve inclusion of women and underrepresented individuals in STEM fields and reaffirms the necessity of broadening participation in STEM fields through NSF programs. Leveraging the Private Sector • Incentivizes Private-Sector Innovation: Updates prize competition authority to encourage greater participation in federal prize competitions. • Expands Opportunities for Public Involvement: Permits federal science agencies to use crowdsourcing as a tool to conduct agency projects. Manufacturing • Encourages Improved Manufacturing: Adjusts the federal cost-share ratio and implements new accountability and oversight provisions within NIST’s Hollings Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP) program. Innovation and Technology Transfer • Bolsters Scientific Entrepreneurship: Authorizes the successful I-Corps program to help scientists move their research from the laboratory to the marketplace. • Reaffirms Importance of Commercialization: Directs NSF to continue awarding translational research grants and strengthen public-private cooperation. ###
01.05.2017	01.05.17 Gardner Meets with Governor Perry, Intended Secretary of Energy Nominee Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), a member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, today met with Governor Rick Perry, President-elect Trump’s intended nominee for U.S. Secretary of Energy. “I had a thoughtful discussion with Governor Perry and appreciate the opportunity to speak with him about his approach to responsible energy production and achieving America’s energy independence,” said Gardner. “We also discussed the importance of the Department of Energy’s National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL) located in Colorado. NREL is instrumental in the advancement of the nation’s renewable energy and energy efficiency, and plays an important role in electrical grid modernization and protecting our grid from cybersecurity threats. Governor Perry is a proven leader who worked to bring jobs and economic growth to Texas, and I’m confident in his all-of-the-above energy strategy to lead the Department of Energy.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Budget Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
01.05.2017	01.05.17 Gardner Meets with Rex Tillerson, Intended Secretary of State Nominee Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, today met with Rex Tillerson, President-elect Trump’s intended nominee for U.S. Secretary of State. “I appreciate the opportunity to meet with Mr. Tillerson and learn more about his approach to serving as America’s top diplomat,” said Gardner. “Mr. Tillerson is an accomplished businessman and job creator who has a firm grasp on geopolitics, and I am confident in Chairman Corker’s ability to lead a fair and thorough confirmation process.”
01.03.2017	01.03.17 Gardner Announces Committee Assignments U.S. Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today announced he will be joining the Budget Committee and continue serving on the Foreign Relations Committee, Energy and Natural Resources Committee, and the Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee. “I look forward to serving on the Budget Committee and working to get our fiscal house in order and address years of the Obama Administration’s reckless spending,” said Gardner. “In addition to joining the Budget Committee, I’m grateful to continue serving on the Foreign Relations Committee, the Energy and Natural Resources Committee, and the Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee. My committee assignments provide Coloradans a voice in shaping federal policy on important issues and significant challenges facing our country, and I’m eager to get to work.”
12.29.2016	12.29.16 Gardner Statement on Russia Sanctions Washington, DC – U.S. Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, today released the below statement after the Obama Administration announced sanctions against Russia for its cyber activities and treatment of U.S. diplomats in Moscow: "I welcome President Obama's eleventh hour effort to address Russia's growing aggression over the past eight years, however, the sanctions should have been announced and enforced sooner than the final days of his presidency. From Russia's dismemberment and occupation of Ukraine to its fecklessness in Syria that's led to horrific atrocities and indescribable suffering, Russia has a long history of provocative actions that have been met with years of failed U.S. policy instead of expedient strength. It has appeared as if the Administration turned a blind eye to Russian belligerence, including the mistreatment of U.S. diplomats in Moscow and Russia's attempt to influence our elections, until now." Gardner immediately called for sweeping sanctions against Russia after the Administration publicly accused Russia of authorizing cyber attacks against the U.S. In July, Gardner joined his colleagues in introducing a bipartisan resolution that calls on Russia to cease provocative military maneuvers that endanger U.S. Forces and urges its European allies and the international community to continue to apply pressure on Moscow. Later that month, Gardner sent a letter to the Obama Administration questioning its silence on reports of Russia's harassment and violence toward U.S. diplomats. Gardner added, "Following the enforcement of the newly announced sanctions against Russia, the best path forward is the establishment of a permanent select committee on cybersecurity to not only investigate cyber issues, but also lead the charge on federal policy to keep pace with the evolving threat. It's important that Congress has the most effective structure in place to provide oversight of the Administration's cyber activities and strategy to deter and mitigate the cyber threat." Gardner recently renewed his call for the creation of a permanent Select Committee on Cybersecurity, and stated he intends to introduce legislation to establish the committee early in the 115th Congress. ###
12.23.2016	12.23.16 Gardner Statement on U.S. Abstaining from U.N Vote Condemning Israel Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statement following President Obama’s decision to not veto the United Nations (U.N) Security Council resolution condemning Israel: “One of President Obama's last acts in office was to turn his back on our ally Israel. His days of emboldening our enemies and weakening our friends are thankfully coming to an end. After eight years of waffling on supporting one of our closest allies, President Obama’s decision today marks his final betrayal of Israel.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
12.23.2016	12.23.16 Gardner Statement on U.N Vote Condemning Israel Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statement urging President Obama to veto the United Nations (U.N) Security Council resolution condemning Israel: "I implore President Obama to veto the U.N Security Council's resolution that condemns our friend and ally, Israel. A veto maintains the United States' longstanding policy to support Israel against consistent bias at the United Nations, and I urge President Obama to follow this policy by directing a U.S. veto of this misguided and counterproductive action and reaffirming that the United States stands with Israel."
12.19.2016	12.19.16 Gardner, Tipton Demand EPA Reimburse Communities Impacted by Gold King Mine Spill Washington, DC – U.S. Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), along with Congressman Scott Tipton (CO-3), sent a letter to Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Gina McCarthy today regarding the agency’s decision not to fully reimburse affected states, local, and tribal governments that have been impacted by the EPA-born Gold King Mine disaster. In the letter, Gardner and Tipton reminded Administrator McCarthy of a section of the Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation Act (WIIN Act) they authored that requires the EPA to fully reimburse all state, local, and tribal government for response costs, regardless of the arbitrary deadline the EPA imposed on such payments. The letter reads in full: Dear Administrator McCarthy: We write today to request the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) immediately issue full reimbursement for the costs incurred by several entities in Southwest Colorado to respond to the August 2015 Gold King Mine spill, in accordance with Section 5004 of the Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation Act (WIIN Act), which we sponsored, and the President signed into law. Earlier this month, EPA sent final decision letters indicating that the agency has no intention of making further response cost reimbursements. This is unacceptable, and inconsistent with your commitment to take full responsibility to affected states, local and tribal governments, and communities, and contrary to the newly enacted WIIN Act. The justification cited by EPA in refusing to reimburse many response costs has no basis in law. The provision included in the WIIN Act makes that clear. The law specifically directs EPA to expedite reimbursement of all response costs incurred by state, local and tribal governments prior to September 9, 2016, if consistent with the National Contingency Plan under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act. Therefore, Congress compels the agency to reimburse such response costs even if incurred after October of 2015. Furthermore, EPA should reassess all disallowed response costs while ensuring all reassessments and appeals are based on the recently-enacted law. Local and tribal entities should not have to be burdened with the appeals process when the law requires EPA to assist them in being made whole. Additionally, we reiterate our calls for the U.S. Department of Justice and EPA to expeditiously process the more than 60 claims that are still pending under the Federal Torts Claim Act regarding the spill. The August 1, 2016, letter from EPA to state, tribal, local, and Congressional leaders stated that EPA and the Department of Justice “hope to be responding to these claims in the coming weeks.” It is completely inadequate that our federal government has not moved forward on a single claim related to personal injury or economic loss resulting from the spill it caused over 16 months ago. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
12.16.2016	12.16.16 Gardner Statement on China’s Seizure of U.S. Navy Equipment Washington, DC – U.S. Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy, today released the below statement on reports that China seized a U.S. Navy underwater vehicle in the South China Sea: “This brazenly hostile act is outrageous and must be met with a firm response. The U.S. Navy was operating in international waters conducting a standard exercise, and China should return the underwater vehicle immediately,” said Gardner. “As a start, I urge the Administration to recall the U.S. Ambassador to China until the U.S. Navy’s property is returned and a formal apology is issued. The United States must send a message to China, unilaterally and through the United Nations, that if its hostile behavior in the South China Sea continues, there will be repercussions.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
12.16.2016	12.16.16 House Approves Gardner-Peters American Innovation and Competitiveness Act Headed to President’s Desk Headed to President’s Desk Washington, DC – The U.S. House of Representatives today followed the U.S. Senate’s action and approved the American Innovation and Competitiveness Act, a bicameral, bipartisan legislative compromise originally introduced by Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Gary Peters (D-MI), along with John Thune (R-SD), and Bill Nelson (D-FL), that maximizes basic research opportunities, reduces administrative burdens for researchers, encourages scientific entrepreneurship, and promotes oversight of taxpayer-funded research. The legislation promotes diversity in STEM fields, incentivizes private-sector innovation, and aims to improve manufacturing. It most directly affects programs within the National Science Foundation (NSF), National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), and the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP). This legislation marks the first major update to federal research and technology policy to originate in the Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee in more than a decade. “The House’s passage of the American Innovation and Competitiveness Act is a major step forward for the science and research community, and I thank Chairman Smith and Ranking Member Johnson for working in good faith with the Senate to achieve this success,” said Gardner. “We’ve worked for more than 18 months with the scientific community, industry, universities, and other interested stakeholders to craft a bill that reflects the needs of America’s science and technology enterprise and I will continue to work to ensure their needs are addressed in Congress. The American Innovation and Competitiveness Act has made science bipartisan again, and I look forward to the President signing this legislation into law and helping to keep America competitive across the globe.” “Cutting-edge innovation and scientific research drive our economy forward by supporting new advances in manufacturing, creating new jobs and promoting our nation’s competitiveness,” said Senator Peters, Ranking Member of the Space, Science and Competitiveness Subcommittee. “I am pleased that the House passed this bipartisan legislation that maximizes federal investments in basic science research, strengthens STEM education programs to build a skilled workforce and supports services that make small and medium-sized manufacturers globally competitive. I was honored to work with Senator Gardner to craft this legislation to help America stay ahead of the curve in our increasingly competitive world.” Highlights of the American Innovation and Competitiveness Act Maximizing Basic Research Highlights Peer Review: Reaffirms the appropriateness of the National Science Foundation’s (NSF’s) intellectual merit and broader impacts criteria used to evaluate grant proposals. Keeps Government Accountable to Taxpayers: Promotes transparency by requiring public notices of grants to justify the project’s expenditures and confirm that they align with NSF’s priorities. Broadens Research Opportunities: Updates NSF’s Experimental Program to Stimulate Competitive Research (EPSCoR) to continue promoting groundbreaking research in states that receive relatively little federal research money. Modernizes Existing Programs: Includes updates to the Networking and Information Technology Research and Development (NITRD) programs, and the National Institute of Standards and Technology’s (NIST’s) laboratory and education outreach programs. Administrative and Regulatory Burden Reduction Reduces Paperwork Burdens: Establishes an inter-agency working group to provide recommendations on eliminating unnecessary paperwork for researchers and institutions. Streamlines Government: Repeals obsolete agency reports and unfunded government programs. Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics Enhances Scientific Community Input: Establishes a STEM Advisory Panel composed of academic and industry representatives to provide recommendations on federal STEM programs. Promotes Diversity in STEM Fields: Creates a working group to study how to improve inclusion of women and underrepresented individuals in STEM fields and reaffirms the necessity of broadening participation in STEM fields through NSF programs. Leveraging the Private Sector Incentivizes Private-Sector Innovation: Updates prize competition authority to encourage greater participation in federal prize competitions. Expands Opportunities for Public Involvement: Permits federal science agencies to use crowdsourcing as a tool to conduct agency projects. Manufacturing Encourages Improved Manufacturing: Adjusts the federal cost-share ratio and implements new accountability and oversight provisions within NIST’s Hollings Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP) program. Innovation and Technology Transfer Bolsters Scientific Entrepreneurship: Authorizes the successful I-Corps program to help scientists move their research from the laboratory to the marketplace. Reaffirms Importance of Commercialization: Directs NSF to continue awarding translational research grants and strengthen public-private cooperation. ###
12.12.2016	12.12.16 Gardner Renews Call for Permanent Select Committee on Cybersecurity Washington, DC – U.S. Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy, today renewed his call to establish a permanent Select Committee on Cybersecurity in the U.S. Senate in light of reports that the Intelligence community concluded Russian hackers attempted to influence the presidential election: “Cybersecurity policy is one of the most significant and complex challenges facing Congress, yet the Senate’s current structure to address cyber attacks remains inefficient. According to the Congressional Research Service, at least 19 standing committees between the House of Representatives and the U.S. Senate have held hearings related to cybersecurity. That’s why I’m renewing my call for the creation of a permanent Select Committee on Cybersecurity, which would be narrowly focused on providing oversight of our strategy to protect sensitive data, defend our networks, and to deter malicious cyber actors,” said Gardner. “Recent reports from our intelligence community concluded that Russia attempted to influence the U.S. presidential election, serving as yet another reminder of the host of emerging threats in cyberspace. These allegations must be thoroughly investigated, and I will continue to work with my colleagues to address the sanctioning of Russia and specifically, bad actors identified following an investigation.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
12.12.2016	12.12.16 Senate Approves Gardner-Peters American Innovation and Competitiveness Act Washington, DC – The United States Senate approved the American Innovation and Competitiveness Act, a bicameral, bipartisan legislative compromise originally introduced by Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Gary Peters (D-MI), along with John Thune (R-SD), and Bill Nelson (D-FL), that maximizes basic research opportunities, reduces administrative burdens for researchers, encourages scientific entrepreneurship, and promotes oversight of taxpayer-funded research. The legislation also promotes diversity in STEM fields, incentivizes private-sector innovation, and aims to improve manufacturing. It most directly affects programs within the National Science Foundation (NSF), National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), and the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP). Beginning in July of 2015, Gardner and Peters led the Senate Commerce Committee’s innovation and competitiveness working group on ways to update federal science and technology research policy. The working group was designed to facilitate a dialogue between leaders on federal science and technology research and gather feedback to consider in developing the American Innovation and Competitiveness Act “America is at its best when it empowers our entrepreneurs and innovators with the tools they need to keep America competitive and at the forefront of cutting-edge research and development,” said Gardner. “The American Innovation and Competitiveness Act has made science bipartisan again. It is a collaborative, bipartisan effort that updates and enhances federal research and technology policy. It highlights STEM education and incentivizes entrepreneurship and private sector development, while at the same time enhancing oversight of federal agencies to ensure the most effective use of resources. This legislation paves the way for our country to grow our economy and create good-paying jobs, and its passage represents a significant step forward.” “Research and innovation are the cornerstones of the American economy, generating new discoveries that become major industries, create jobs and keep our nation internationally competitive,” said Senator Peters, Ranking Member of the Space, Science and Competitiveness Subcommittee. “I was honored to work with Senator Gardner, Chairman Thune and Ranking Member Nelson on this bipartisan legislation that takes important steps to improve STEM education efforts, boost small and medium sized manufacturers, and encourage entrepreneurs to turn their discoveries into new businesses that strengthen America’s competitive edge and keep us at the forefront of the global economy.” Highlights of the American Innovation and Competitiveness Act Maximizing Basic Research Highlights Peer Review: Reaffirms the appropriateness of the National Science Foundation’s (NSF’s) intellectual merit and broader impacts criteria used to evaluate grant proposals. Keeps Government Accountable to Taxpayers: Promotes transparency by requiring public notices of grants to justify the project’s expenditures and confirm that they align with NSF’s priorities. Broadens Research Opportunities: Updates NSF’s Experimental Program to Stimulate Competitive Research (EPSCoR) to continue promoting groundbreaking research in states that receive relatively little federal research money. Modernizes Existing Programs: Includes updates to the Networking and Information Technology Research and Development (NITRD) programs, and the National Institute of Standards and Technology’s (NIST’s) laboratory and education outreach programs. Administrative and Regulatory Burden Reduction Reduces Paperwork Burdens: Establishes an inter-agency working group to provide recommendations on eliminating unnecessary paperwork for researchers and institutions. Streamlines Government: Repeals obsolete agency reports and unfunded government programs. Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics Enhances Scientific Community Input: Establishes a STEM Advisory Panel composed of academic and industry representatives to provide recommendations on federal STEM programs. Promotes Diversity in STEM Fields: Creates a working group to study how to improve inclusion of women and underrepresented individuals in STEM fields and reaffirms the necessity of broadening participation in STEM fields through NSF programs. Leveraging the Private Sector Incentivizes Private-Sector Innovation: Updates prize competition authority to encourage greater participation in federal prize competitions. Expands Opportunities for Public Involvement: Permits federal science agencies to use crowdsourcing as a tool to conduct agency projects. Manufacturing Encourages Improved Manufacturing: Adjusts the federal cost-share ratio and implements new accountability and oversight provisions within NIST’s Hollings Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP) program. Innovation and Technology Transfer Bolsters Scientific Entrepreneurship: Authorizes the successful I-Corps program to help scientists move their research from the laboratory to the marketplace. Reaffirms Importance of Commercialization: Directs NSF to continue awarding translational research grants and strengthen public-private cooperation. ###
12.10.2016	12.10.16 Gardner Priorities Included in Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) Gardner’s Gold King Mine Spill Recovery Language Headed to President’s Desk to be Signed into Law Washington, DC – The U.S. Senate approved the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA), legislation that included language authored by Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) to expedite payments to entities that assumed response costs associated with the Gold King Mine spill and direct the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to work with affected states, Indian tribes, and local governments on a long-term water quality monitoring program of the rivers contaminated by the spill. In September, Gardner led a group of bipartisan Senators in introducing an amendment to WRDA with Senators Tom Udall (D-NM), Michael Bennet (D-CO), Orrin Hatch (R-UT), Martin Heinrich (D-NM), and John McCain (R-AZ) on the Gold King Mine spill. Gardner worked to secure the amendment in legislative text that expedites the payments of response costs assumed by states, Indian tribes, and local governments. It also requires the EPA to pay for the response costs within 90 days if the costs are consistent with federal law. Lastly, the legislative language establishes a long-term water quality monitoring program and authorizes the EPA to reimburse the states, Indian tribes, and local governments for this monitoring activity. “It has been over 16 months since the EPA released three million gallons of contaminated waste water into the Animas River, yet states, tribes, and local governments had still not been fully reimbursed for response costs incurred as a result of this EPA-born disaster,” said Gardner. “The passage of the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA), which includes a provision I authored to reimburse states, tribes, and local governments for costs associated with the Gold King Mine spill, is a step forward for the communities affected. I have worked with my colleagues in the Senate to ensure this language is a part of the final legislation and I’m proud we were able to secure its inclusion in the final bill. I look forward to the President signing this legislation into law and finally bringing relief to the states, tribes, and local governments that have been at a financial loss because of the EPA’s lack of accountability.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
12.09.2016	12.09.16 Gardner Statement on FERC Denial of Jordan Cove Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement today after the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission’s (FERC) announcement to deny a re-hearing for the reconsideration of the Jordan Cove Energy Project and Pacific Gas Connector Pipeline: “Once again FERC has denied the application of Jordan Cove to export liquefied natural gas (LNG), shutting down their pipeline, and preventing them from getting the assistance they need to open the facility to be able to export LNG to our allies. This is nothing more than a misguided attempt to stop exporting LNG completely, a commonsense energy resource, out of the Rockies to our allies in the West. “I wholeheartedly disagree with FERC’s decision, and I will continue to work tirelessly to make sure that the federal government plays no role in deciding what types of energy are suitable for the marketplace. There is no sensible explanation for denying opportunities for economic growth and job creation." ###
12.09.2016	12.09.16 President Obama Signs Gardner-Shaheen Legislation into Law, Requiring Federal Government to Measure Impact of Outdoor Recreation on U.S. Economy Washington, DC – President Barack Obama signed into law legislation authored by U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH) to require the federal government to measure the impact of the outdoor recreation on the economy. The bipartisan Outdoor Recreation Jobs and Economic Impact Act of 2015, introduced in October 2015 by Gardner and Shaheen will inform policy makers and business leaders on the jobs created, and the consumer spending driven by, the outdoor recreation economy. The House companion bill H.R. 4665 was introduced by Reps. Don Beyer (D-VA), Dave Reichert (R-WA), Peter Welch (D-VT), and Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA). The bill unanimously passed in the House and then the Senate in November. “Outdoor recreation is a way of life in Colorado and is a major economic driver for many communities across the Centennial state,” said Senator Gardner. “It’s time the federal government measures outdoor recreation’s economic impact and I’m pleased President Obama has signed this bipartisan legislation into law. Policymakers in Washington will now have a powerful tool at their disposal that will benefit all Americans by highlighting the industry’s economic benefits in Colorado and across the United States.” “I am proud that President Obama has signed this commonsense legislation into law, recognizing the outdoor recreation sector’s important contributions to our economy,” said Senator Shaheen. “In the Granite State, we know that preserving our natural treasures isn’t just good for the environment; it’s also a smart move for state and local economies. Policymakers need to see the full picture of the role that outdoor recreation plays in supporting jobs and economic growth, and craft policy accordingly.” “This new law will ensure that outdoor recreation is a permanent part of the U.S. GDP and will enable our industry to make the case that preserving public lands and investing in our nation’s recreation infrastructure is a sustainable job creator and economic driver that is a hallmark of American values and ideals,” said Amy Roberts, Executive Director of the Outdoor Industry Association. “We appreciate the leadership of Congress in choosing to prioritize this bill with bipartisan, unanimous support for its passage during a very limited end of year session.” “This is an exciting time for the outdoor recreation industry, which is such an important part of our local and national economies,” said Jim Pisani, Global President for Timberland, headquartered in Stratham, New Hampshire. “It was great to see the Senate and House come together in support of the Outdoor Recreation Jobs and Economic Impact Act, which was signed into law today by President Obama. We are grateful to Senator Shaheen and Senator Gardner for their leadership in driving this important, bipartisan legislation.” Until recently, the federal government did not measure the economic impact of outdoor recreation, despite independent estimates that this sector generates $646 billion in consumer spending each year and supports 6.1 million jobs. In April, U.S. Secretary of the Interior Sally Jewell announced that the Federal Recreation Council will work with the Commerce Department’s Bureau of Economic Analysis to assess the economic contributions of the outdoor recreation industry. The Outdoor Recreation Jobs and Economic Impact Act of 2015 ensures that this work continue in the future by requiring it in statute. The bill also requires that the Commerce Department submit a comprehensive analysis to Congress capturing the outdoor recreation sector’s contribution to the economy. ###?
12.08.2016	12.08.16 Gardner Meets with Governor Nikki Haley, Intended United Nations Ambassador Nominee Washington, DC – U.S. Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, today met with Governor Nikki Haley, President-elect Trump’s intended nominee for U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations. “After meeting with Governor Nikki Haley, I’m convinced she will be an outstanding U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations,” said Gardner. “We discussed many topics, including U.S. policy toward North Korea and agreed the current Administration’s policy of ‘strategic patience’ has failed. I’m excited to work with Governor Haley and the Trump Administration to promote U.S. interests abroad and ensure the safety and security of all Americans. Throughout her tenure as Governor, Governor Haley has always put the people of South Carolina first, and I’m confident she will now put the American people first as she enters her new role as U.N. Ambassador.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
12.08.2016	12.08.16 Senate-Passed Bill Paves Way for Commerce City Development Perlmutter, Gardner, Bennet Measure Included in the National Defense Authorization Act Washington, DC – The United States Senate today approved the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2017, which included a provision introduced by Rep. Ed Perlmutter (CO-07) and Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Michael Bennet (D-CO) - the Rocky Mountain Arsenal Amendment. The NDAA will now head to President Obama’s desk for signature. The Rocky Mountain Arsenal Amendment allows for an environmental assessment to evaluate the removal of deed restrictions, which currently prohibit the development of things like transportation infrastructure or retail and housing properties, on land that Commerce City purchased in 2004. Commerce City has been working with federal and state regulators to prove the property’s safety, but Congressional action was necessary to remove the deed restrictions and fully allow for residential or industrial use of the property. The land was formerly a U.S. Army chemical weapons manufacturing facility, but was cleaned up and much of the property was used to establish the Rocky Mountain Arsenal National Wildlife Refuge. Gardner, along with Bennet, introduced the Rocky Mountain Arsenal Amendment to change current law to allow restrictions on the deed to be removed or modified if a risk assessment conducted under federal environmental law proves that the property is safe for these new uses. Perlmutter authored similar language in the House of Representatives. In July, Perlmutter, Gardner, and Bennet sent a letter to Senators John McCain (R-AZ) and Jack Reed (D-RI), the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Senate Armed Services Committee respectively, and Congressmen Mac Thornberry (TX-13) and Adam Smith (WA-9), the Chairman and Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee respectively, urging them to include the Rocky Mountain Arsenal Amendment in the final conference report of the NDAA. “The National Defense Authorization Act’s inclusion of the Rocky Mountain Arsenal is central to Commerce City’s potential development of the land it purchased nearly a decade ago,” said Gardner. “If the land is deemed safe for development, Commerce City has the opportunity to attract new businesses and jobs, boosting its local economy. This is the result of a strong bipartisan effort, and I look forward to President Obama signing the NDAA into law.” “Following an environmental review, this amendment allows Commerce City greater flexibility to move forward and continue growing its local economy,” said Perlmutter. “I appreciate the bipartisan effort with Senators Bennet and Gardner to secure passage of this important amendment for the future of Commerce City.” "This language will finally allow Commerce City to move forward with its development plans following an environmental review,” Bennet said. “These reforms will help boost economic development and create jobs in the community." “Allowing residential development on the Victory Crossing property aligns with the city’s vision to create a one-of-a-kind space for the community to gather as well as make a home,” said Mayor Sean Ford. “The world-class soccer stadium, the new Central Park rail station and the new RTD bus line are just a few examples of how this area continues to grow and we want Commerce City residents to enjoy those amenities too. For the past few years, the city has been working with federal agencies and partners to remove these land restrictions and we look forward to our continued partnerships to develop this area. Multi-family housing with further strengthen Victory Crossing, providing a sense of place and contributing to a vibrant community.” ###
12.08.2016	12.08.16 Senate Approves National Defense Authorization Act Gardner Amendment Paves the Way for Assured Access to Space and Colorado Jobs Washington, DC – Today, the U.S. Senate approved the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (NDAA), which provides funding for the Department of Defense (DoD). The legislation included language Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) authored that allows for the DoD to purchase rockets from any certified launch provider between now and December 31, 2022 so long as the provider offers the best value to the DoD. Gardner’s fiscally responsible amendment to the NDAA promotes competition, protects our national security, and paves the way for assured access to space, which is critical to the detection of missiles, transmitting secure communication, and gathering intelligence. It is estimated that the amendment could potentially save the DoD as much as $5 billion. “It’s critical the DoD has the opportunity to purchase affordable, reliable launch vehicles that assure our continued access to space and strengthen our national security. My amendment requires the DoD to purchase the most affordable rockets from certified providers. I’m proud I was able to work with my colleagues to ensure this provision was included in the final NDAA package,” said Gardner. “The NDAA also bolsters the safety and security of Coloradans and Americans across the country by prohibiting funds from being used to transfer or assist in the transfer of detainees from Guantanamo Bay to the United States. Guantanamo Bay is tailor-made for terrorists, and Coloradans and Americans across the country have rejected President Obama’s proposal to transfer detainees to American soil. I look forward to working with the incoming Trump Administration to ensure this ill-conceived plan is abandoned once and for all.” Gardner added, “Supporting our troops on and off the battlefield has always been one of my top priorities and I was proud to vote in favor of the NDAA because it provides our troops with a well-deserved pay raise and the necessary resources to combat the growing threats our nation faces at home and abroad. I urge the President to swiftly sign this legislation into law.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
12.08.2016	12.08.16 Gardner Meets with Secretary Elaine Chao, Intended Transportation Secretary Nominee Washington, DC – U.S. Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), a member of the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, today met with Secretary Elaine Chao, President-elect Trump’s intended nominee for Secretary of the U.S. Department of Transportation. “Secretary Chao has dedicated much of her life to public service and is a proven leader who knows how to get the job done,” said Gardner. “We spoke about the unique challenges Colorado faces when it comes to transportation and I am confident Secretary Chao will work to repair and strengthen our country’s infrastructure. President-elect Trump’s intended nomination of Elaine Chao is the right choice for Colorado and it’s the right choice for this country. I look forward to working with Secretary Chao on behalf of the American people.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
12.07.2016	12.07.16 Gardner Announces $30 Million Grant for Denver’s Sun Valley Neighborhood Washington, DC – U.S. Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today announced the Denver Housing Authority will receive a $30 million Choice Neighborhood Implementation Grant to build 750 mixed-income housing units, and increase business opportunities and access to jobs and education in Denver’s Sun Valley neighborhood. The Sun Valley neighborhood is the lowest-income neighborhood in Denver where 83 percent of households live below the poverty line. Gardner played an instrumental role in securing this grant for Denver. Gardner, in consultation with Mayor Hancock, advocated on behalf of the Denver Housing Authority and spoke with Secretary Julián Castro by phone to express his support for this project. “I’m thrilled the Denver Housing Authority will receive $30 million to revitalize Denver’s Sun Valley neighborhood,” said Gardner. “As the Department of Housing and Urban Development was considering this grant application, I spoke with Secretary Castro and explained how important this funding is to this Denver community. The local government and its key partners put together a major revitalization plan for this neighborhood and this grant will allow the plan to move forward. Whether it’s the 750 new housing units or the increase in access to quality jobs and education, we will see tangible benefits for individuals and families in this community as a result of this grant. I was proud to support this project and I look forward to seeing the results.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
12.07.2016	12.07.16 Senate Approves Gardner Language to Preserve Medicare Funding for Craig Hospital, Increase Access to Life-Saving Medical Devices Bipartisan 21st Century Cures Act Headed to President’s Desk Washington, DC – The U.S. Senate today approved the 21st Century Cures Act, bipartisan, comprehensive legislation aimed at fast-tracking the development of new medicine and treatments, tackling opioid addiction, and improving mental health programs. Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) authored language that was included in the 21st Century Cures Act to preserve Medicare funding for Craig Hospital as well as a provision that enhances access to life-saving medical devices for patients with rare diseases. Prior to the passage of the 21st Century Cures Act, Craig Hospital was at risk of losing its Long Term Care Hospital (LTCH) designation due to new LTCH Medicare payment system rules that fail to capture the severity of patients’ needs at Craig Hospital. Gardner recently visited Craig Hospital in September to meet with hospital leadership to discuss the hospital’s challenges in light of the new LTCH payment rules, and has worked hard to ensure that Craig Hospital maintains its LTCH designation so that the Medicare patients it serves can continue to receive treatment. Gardner successfully secured language in the 21st Century Cures Act that temporarily preserves Craig Hospital’s LTCH designation and requires language be submitted by 2018 demonstrating the need for Craig Hospital to remain a LTCH. “Medicare patients at Craig Hospital were at risk of losing access to care under new payment system rules,” said Gardner. “I’m proud I was able to secure language in the 21st Century Cures Act that will enable Craig Hospital to continue providing treatment to Medicare patients, and I’ll continue to work with Craig Hospital and other health care facilities throughout Colorado to address their challenges to improving health care delivery.” The 21st Century Cures Act also included the Rare Disease Innovation Act, a bill Gardner authored that streamlines and expedites the Federal Drug Administration’s (FDA) approval of medical devices used to treat patients with rare diseases, including ALS, cerebral palsy, Hodgkin’s lymphoma, mesothelioma, and tuberculosis. Currently, FDA has a simplified approval process for medical devices intended to treat or diagnose rare diseases that are present in 4,000 patients or fewer in the U.S. annually. Gardner’s language increases the threshold from 4,000 to 8,000 patient cases for medical devices that qualify for expedited approval, creating an incentive for manufacturers to develop medical devices for rare conditions that meet the new criteria. “Streamlining the FDA’s approval process, particularly for medical devices used to treat rare conditions, is essential to enhancing the quality of care and improving the quality of life for those suffering from rare conditions. The 21st Century Cures Act recognizes that there needs to be more attention placed on developing devices for rare diseases, and therefore incentivizes innovation where it may not have otherwise occurred,” said Gardner. The 21st Century Cures Act is designed to reduce regulatory hurdles and spur the development of treatments for diseases such as Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s and cures for cancer by supporting the National Institute for Health’s (NIH) efforts to map one million genomes. This legislation includes funding for the “Cancer Moonshot” effort to speed research as well as the Precision Medicine Initiative. Furthermore, this legislation addresses the country’s mental health crisis by enhancing coordination between federal agencies and departments that treat mental illness, ensuring federal dollars are more effectively spent, encouraging new approaches to care, and improving access to mental health care for veterans, women, and children. Gardner added, “The 21st Century Cures Act is an acknowledgment that federal policy related to improving the quality of health care in our country must be updated to keep pace with science and innovation. The bill breaks down barriers to research and development, encouraging medicine’s brightest minds to move forward with breakthrough discoveries and cures. The 21st Century Cures Act is the product of an overwhelming bipartisan, bicameral effort, and evidence of the progress Congress can make when we work together to move this country forward.” The 21st Century Cures Act previously overwhelmingly passed the House of Representatives, and President Obama recently urged its passage. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
12.07.2016	12.07.16 Gardner Secures Disaster Relief Funding for U.S. 34 Project Funding to Complete Remaining Infrastructure Repairs from 2013 Floods Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today announced he secured funding to complete the U.S. 34 project as well as other repairs to infrastructure following the 2013 floods in the continuing resolution. Gardner joined members of the Colorado delegation in writing a letter to Senate Appropriations Chairman Thad Cochran and Vice Chairwoman Barbara Mikulski as well as House Appropriations Chairman Hal Rogers and Ranking Member Nita Lowey urging adequate funding for the Federal Highway Administration’s (FHWA) Emergency Relief account, which is facing a significant shortfall, to address disaster relief and mitigation projects in Colorado. “I welcome the inclusion of much-needed disaster relief funding for Colorado road projects in the continuing resolution. Without it, the Colorado Department of Transportation predicted that it could take up to 20 years to receive the funding necessary to permanently repair our infrastructure damaged from the 2013 floods,” said Gardner. “The significant boost in emergency relief funding is central to the completion of the U.S. 34 project and other critical repairs to Colorado’s roadways. It eliminates the threat of significant delays due to funding shortfalls, and I’m proud the spending bill will pave the way for progress on the remaining projects.” According to the Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT), the state has a backlog of more than $250 million across the state for infrastructure projects in the aftermath of the 2013 floods. The Appropriations measure that the Senate is expected to take up later this week includes more than $1 billion for the Emergency Relief account at FHWA and will allow the state to move these projects forward. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
12.06.2016	12.06.16 Gardner Meets with Wilbur Ross, Intended Commerce Secretary Nominee Washington, DC – U.S. Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), a member of the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, today met with Wilbur Ross, President-elect Trump’s intended nominee for Secretary of the U.S. Department of Commerce. “I had a productive meeting with Mr. Ross today and discussed how best to provide all Americans with the opportunity to succeed. We spoke about how important strong trade relationships and rural economic development are to communities in Colorado and across the country, and I hope we can work together to advance policies that bring relief to rural America,” said Gardner. “Mr. Ross understands how to grow our economy and workforce, and I look forward to having the opportunity to support him as he leads America’s economic resurgence.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
12.05.2016	12.05.16 Gardner Congratulates USS Colorado Captain and Crew on Ship’s Christening Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) sent a letter to Commander Franklin and the Crew of the USS Colorado to congratulate them on the christening of the new submarine. The christening took place at the Electric Boat Shipyard in Groton, Connecticut. This new submarine is the fourth U.S. Navy ship to bear the name USS Colorado, and the first since 1947. Now that the ship is christened, it will undergo sea trial testing before it is put into service in defense of our nation. The letter reads in full: Dear Commander Franklin and the Crew of the USS Colorado (SSN-788), I want to extend my sincerest congratulations on the christening of the USS Colorado. I am honored to represent the state of Colorado, and I speak for all Coloradans when I say that we are honored to have the newest Virginia-class submarine named after our great state. As we celebrate this important milestone on the path to active duty for this warship, it is only fitting to look back on the storied service of ships bearing the name USS Colorado at various times throughout nearly 160 years of our nation’s history. As the fourth ship to bear the name Colorado, SSN-778 has some big shoes to fill. From the first USS Colorado’s role in the Gulf and Atlantic blockades during the Civil War, to the second USS Colorado’s service escorting personnel and supply convoys to England during World War I, and most recently the third USS Colorado’s seven battle stars earned during the Second World War, your predecessors have proudly protected our national interests at home and around the world. When this submarine enters active duty, it will be at a time when our nation faces a myriad of threats. Whether it be the provocative actions Iran takes towards our forces in the middle east, the efforts of our near-peer competitors China and Russia to develop advanced military technologies, or the continued efforts by the rogue regime in North Korea to acquire nuclear ballistic missiles, the global threat matrix is unlike anything the first three ships of your namesake faced. Despite the varied and complex nature of the threats you will face, I have no doubt the newest USS Colorado and its skilled crew will play a critical role in protecting the United States and our maritime interests from any threat we may face. I wish you good luck and Godspeed as you begin your sea trials, and look forward to the day the USS Colorado once again patrols the seas in active service to this great Nation. God bless this submarine and all who sail in her. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
12.05.2016	12.05.16 Gardner, Colleagues Request President Obama Stop Issuing New Regulations Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) led 22 of his Senate colleagues in sending a letter to President Obama requesting his Administration stop issuing non-emergency rules and regulations in the final weeks of his term. Gardner and his colleagues stressed to the President that the American people made it clear on November 8th that they expect regulatory relief. The letter reads in full: Dear Mr. President: We write to request your Administration cease issuing new, non-emergency rules and regulations given the recent election results of November 8. In a clear and direct repudiation of consistent regulatory overreach by federal agencies, the American people have, for the first time since 2007, handed control of both the executive and legislative branches of government to the same majority. It is our job now to determine the right balance between regulation and free market principles and make sure that our federal government no longer stands between Americans and financial success. Whether it is the Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rule unfairly burdening our farmers and ranchers, the anti-coal rules eliminating thousands of jobs and driving up household energy costs, or the Dodd-Frank rules denying our small businesses access to capital, federal agencies continue to produce reams of new regulations that hurt our job creators and cripple our economy. But this flawed approach to governance has been rejected by the people. Today, we have the opportunity to return to commonsense principles of regulation and curb unnecessary government interference in the private sector. In doing so, we will grow the economy, create jobs, and, above all, help the people who have been overlooked the past eight years. To this end, we respectfully request you honor the will of the American people and refrain from working on or issuing any new, non-emergency regulations while carrying out your remaining term in office. The letter was also signed by Jeff Flake (R-AZ), Mike Lee (R-UT), Ben Sasse (R-NE), Deb Fischer (R-NE), John Barrasso, M.D. (R-WY), Roy Blunt (R-MO), Tom Cotton (R-AR), Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV), Jerry Moran (R-KS), James M. Inhofe (R-OK), John Hoeven (R-ND), John Thune (R-SD), Roger F. Wicker (R-MS), Michael B. Enzi (R-WY), Marco Rubio (R-FL), Joni Ernst (R-IA), Mike Rounds (R-SD), Ted Cruz (R-TX), David Perdue (R-GA), Pat Roberts (R-KS), Bill Cassidy, M.D. (R-LA), and Dan Sullivan (R-AK). ###
12.01.2016	12.01.16 Gardner Votes to Extend Iran Sanctions Bill Headed to President’s Desk for Signature Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, today released the below statement following the Senate’s passage of the Iran Sanctions Extension Act, which previously passed the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 419-1. The Iran Sanctions Act of 1996 was set to expire at the end of this year and will now be extended to 2026 in order to curtail Iran’s activities to support terrorism and develop weapons of mass destruction. “While the Obama Administration refuses to take meaningful action to deter Iran from testing ballistic missiles, financing terror groups, and threatening our closest ally, Israel, Congress has acted to ensure we have the ability to respond to Iran’s increasingly belligerent behavior,” said Gardner. “This legislation puts the safety and security of the American people first and is central to ratcheting up pressure on the murderous regime in Tehran, which has no respect for international norms. I look forward to working with the next Administration to prevent a nuclear Iran and make it clear that the United States will not tolerate an Iran that threatens the safety of its neighbors or our interests at home or abroad. I urge the Trump Administration to use the authorities provided by Congress today early and often to punish any and all behavior by the Iranian regime that threatens American interests and those of our close allies.” As a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Gardner has been a vocal opponent of the President’s deal with Iran. Before the deal was reached, Gardner warned about the dangers of a nuclear Iran, and denounced the deal. After reports of Iranian violations of U.N. sanctions, Gardner sent a letter to President Obama asking for a response to Iran’s violations. On the floor of the Senate, Gardner spoke out about the troubling aspects of the deal and urged his colleagues to reject it. Gardner also called on the Administration to explain reports that the United States agreed in secret to grant Iran exemptions and create a loophole to solidify the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) ahead of its deadline. Most recently, Gardner introduced the No Ransom Payments Act authored by Senator Marco Rubio (R-FL). If enacted, this legislation will prohibit the United States Treasury Department from using the Judgment Fund, which was established to pay money owed by the U.S. government, to make any payments to Iran until Iran returns the ransom payment it received and compensates American victims of Iranian terrorism. Furthermore, it prohibits the United States from making ransom payments to any country. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
12.01.2016	12.01.16 Senate Approves Gardner, Bennet Resolution Recognizing 40 Years of Women at the Air Force Academy Washington, DC – The United States Senate approved a resolution, introduced by Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Michael Bennet (D-CO), supporting the designation of October 8, 2016, as “40 Years of Women Cadets at the United States Air Force Academy Day.'' The resolution recognizes the many contributions female cadets have made to the Air Force Academy and their incredible service to our nation. “Forty years ago, the United States Air Force Academy in Colorado became the first military academy to admit female cadets,” said Gardner. “Our female cadets have gone on to command Air Force combat units, earn the rank of 4-star general, and serve as Superintendent of the Academy. These women, along with the thousands of other female cadets who now serve in the Air Force and other branches of the military, serve as role models to young women and all of those around our nation who wish to serve their country and I thank them for their service.” “This resolution honors the tremendous contributions female servicemembers have made to our Armed Forces and to our national security,” Bennet said. “Their achievements are a testament to their dedication and sacrifice, and our nation is stronger because of their service. I am grateful the Air Force Academy opened the door to female cadets 40 years ago.” ###
11.30.2016	11.30.16 Gardner Statement on New U.N. Sanctions on North Korea Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity, today released the below statement following the United Nations (U.N.) Security Council’s approval of new sanctions on North Korea aimed at reducing the regime’s exports: “I welcome the U.N. Security Council’s approval of tougher sanctions on North Korea,” said Gardner. “I’m hopeful that the U.N. will fully enforce these sanctions, which are designed to slash North Korea’s export-generated revenue. At the same time, I encourage the U.N. to pursue aggressive sanctions that address North Korea’s increasingly belligerent behavior, particularly its malicious cyber activities and gross human rights abuses. We know that North Korea’s cyber capabilities are intensifying, and a new report revealed that the regime not only maintains its political prison camps, but may be expanding them. That’s why it is essential that the U.N. continues to ratchet up pressure on Pyongyang while also fully implementing its previous actions against the regime. The US, South Korea and Japan will work with China and the U.N. for full enforcement." ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
11.29.2016	11.29.16 Senate Approves Gardner- Shaheen Legislation to Measure Impact of Outdoor Recreation on U.S. Economy Heads to President’s Desk to be Signed into Law **Senators Gardner (R-CO) and Shaheen (D-NH) authored and introduced the Outdoor Recreation Jobs and Economic Impact Act of 2015 that unanimously passed the Senate** **Independent studies estimate the outdoor recreation industry generates $646 billion in consumer spending each year and supports 6.1 million jobs** Washington, DC – The Senate unanimously approved final passage of legislation authored by U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH) to require the federal government to measure the impact of the outdoor recreation on the economy and the bill will now be sent to President Obama’s desk. The Outdoor Recreation Jobs and Economic Impact Act of 2015, introduced by Gardner and Shaheen in October 2015, is bipartisan legislation that will inform policymakers and business leaders on the jobs created, and the consumer spending driven by, the outdoor recreation economy. “Outdoor recreation is a cornerstone of our economy in Colorado, yet its true economic impact from the federal government’s perspective remains unknown,” said Senator Gardner. “This legislation will educate policymakers on the outdoor recreation industry’s contribution to our economy, including the number of jobs it's responsible for and the amount of consumer spending it generates. It’s a commonsense, bipartisan bill, and I look forward to President Obama signing it into law.” “The outdoor recreation sector is a critical component of both the New Hampshire and national economy, and I am glad to see Congress recognizing its importance by passing this bill,” said Senator Shaheen. “In the Granite State, we know that preserving our natural treasures isn’t just good for the environment; it’s also a smart move for state and local economies. Policymakers need to see the full picture of the role that outdoor recreation plays in supporting jobs and economic growth, and craft policy accordingly. I am grateful to Senator Gardner, Commerce Committee Chairman Thune and Ranking Member Nelson for their work to move this legislation forward and Representatives Beyer, Reichert, Welch and McMorris for their efforts in the House. I look forward to seeing President Obama sign this into law.” “The outdoors are an integral part of our lives in Colorado, and the outdoor industry is a powerful economic engine that contributes $13.2 billion to the state’s economy and supports 125,000 Colorado jobs,” said Harry Kazazian, Chief Executive Officer of Boulder, CO-based Exxel Outdoors. “Thanks to the leadership of Senator Gardner, the outdoor recreation economy will now be counted as part of U.S. Gross Domestic Product and recognized as the powerful economic driver that we in the industry know it is.” "Outdoor Industry Association (OIA) and the thousands of manufacturers, retailers and service providers in the outdoor recreation industry, know about the hundreds of millions of dollars our industry contributes to the U.S. economy and the millions of jobs our businesses support," said OIA Executive Director Amy Roberts. "Today’s Senate passage of this bill shows that bipartisan members in both chambers understand that as well. We are grateful for the leadership of Senator Shaheen and Senator Gardner and join them in celebrating today's vote, which signals that the bill will be signed into law before the end of this legislative session. This is a big step forward in making sure that the federal government quantifies the economic importance of our industry and uses that data to inform the decisions that affect our businesses and the 142 million Americans who recreate outside each year.” Until recently, the federal government did not measure the economic impact of outdoor recreation, despite independent estimates that this sector generates $646 billion in consumer spending each year and supports 6.1 million jobs. In April, U.S. Secretary of the Interior Sally Jewell announced that the Federal Recreation Council will work with the Commerce Department’s Bureau of Economic Analysis to assess the economic contributions of the outdoor recreation industry. The Outdoor Recreation Jobs and Economic Impact Act of 2015 ensures that this work continue in the future by requiring it in statute. The bill also requires that the Commerce Department submit a comprehensive analysis to Congress capturing the outdoor recreation sector’s contribution to the economy. The House companion bill H.R. 4665 was introduced by Reps. Don Beyer (D-VA), Dave Reichert (R-WA), Peter Welch (D-VT), and Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA). The bill passed the House of Representatives earlier this month. ###
11.26.2016	11.26.16 Gardner Statement on Fidel Castro Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, today released the below statement on the death of Fidel Castro: “The Cuban people have suffered under Fidel Castro’s oppressive and murderous regime for decades, and today we reflect on all of the lives lost, families ripped apart, and hardship endured. His death presents an opportunity for the Cuban people, ushering in hope that one day Cuba too can enjoy the democracy and freedoms its people were promised.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941 Press Contact Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, today released the below statement on the death of Fidel Castro: <span style="font-family: 'Calibri',sans-s
11.23.2016	11.23.16 Gardner Applauds South Korea and Japan Agreement to Combat the North Korean Threat Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy, today released the below statement applauding the signed agreement between South Korea and Japan to share military information in order to better detect nuclear activity from North Korea. Gardner has been an outspoken advocate for cooperation among our allies in the region to deter the North Korean threat. “South Korea and Japan’s pact to share military information is a significant, positive step forward and I applaud their collaboration to combat North Korean aggression,” said Gardner. “The agreement will bolster the military posture and defense capabilities of our two closest allies in East Asia, while adding additional pressure on North Korea to peacefully disarm and cease its illicit activities. I call on the Obama Administration and the incoming Trump Administration to prioritize enhancing the trilateral alliance between our nations to deter the North Korean threat.”
11.23.2016	11.23.16 Gardner Gives Thanks Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statement celebrating Thanksgiving: “Thanksgiving is an opportunity to reflect on all that we as a country have to be grateful for, and give thanks to all of those who have sacrificed so much in the name of freedom. This day we also turn to our Creator and give thanks for the blessings bestowed upon His great nation,” said Gardner. “As we gather around our tables with our families, friends, and loved ones this Thanksgiving, let us all pause to honor the men and women in our military who are serving overseas and unable to be with their families. This day is also a reminder that we must never lose sight of how fortunate we are to live in a democratic nation, which allows us to speak and express ourselves freely and pursue and achieve our dreams.”
11.22.2016	11.22.16 Gardner Receives Colorado Farm Bureau’s Highest Honor Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) was awarded the Colorado Farm Bureau’s Service to Agriculture Award at Colorado Farm Bureau’s annual meeting. The Service to Agriculture Award is given to one individual within the Colorado Farm Bureau and one individual outside of the organization annually to recognize their service to the industry. “I’m honored to receive the Colorado Farm Bureau’s Service to Agriculture Award,” said Gardner. “Growing up on the Eastern Plains and working on my family’s farm implement dealership allowed me to develop a deep appreciation for agriculture and an understanding of the challenges facing the industry. Since coming to Washington, I have advocated for solutions that reduce Washington’s presence on our farms and incentivize agriculture production. Farming has long had a positive impact on our communities and rural economies, and I’m committed to fighting for policies that will allow the industry to grow and thrive.” "Senator Gardner is native to agriculture and the rural way of life. He knows it's people, it's struggles and it's ideals. He understands how to bring that knowledge to Washington and to the legislative process. We thank him for his tireless support of the people of Colorado agriculture and the rural way of life," said Don Shawcroft, Colorado Farm Bureau president.
11.21.2016	11.21.16 Gardner Announces Tickets Available for 58th Presidential Inauguration Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today announced that a limited number of tickets to the 58th Presidential Inauguration are available to Coloradans through his office upon request. President-Elect Donald J. Trump will be sworn in as the 45th President of the United States on January 20, 2017 at the United States Capitol in Washington, D.C. The tickets will be in a cordoned-off outdoor area and are standing-room only. Coloradans interested in attending should email Tickets_Gardner@gardner.senate.gov and include their full name, address, phone number, and the number of tickets requested. All requests must be submitted by December 1st, and tickets will be available to be picked up in Gardner’s Washington, D.C. office between January 17th and 19th, 2017. Note: As there are a limited number of spaces, tickets are not guaranteed. Press Contact
11.17.2016	11.17.16 Gardner Statement on American Energy and Conservation Act WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statement after voting in favor to proceed to debate on the American Energy and Conservation Act, legislation that adjusts revenue sharing from offshore and onshore energy production. Press Contact WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statement after voting in favor to proceed to debate on the American Energy and Conservation Act, legislation that adjusts revenue sharing from offshore and onshore energy production.
11.16.2016	11.16.16 Senate Republican Conference Elects Leadership for 115th Congress WASHINGTON, DC — This morning the Senate Republican Conference elected its leadership team for the 115th Congress: Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) as Senate Republican leader, John Cornyn (R-Texas) as Senate Republican whip, John Thune (R-S.D.) as Senate Republican Conference chairman, John Barrasso (R-Wyo.) as Senate Republican Policy Committee chairman, Roy Blunt (R-Mo.) as Senate Republican Conference vice chairman, and Cory Gardner (R-Colo.) as National Republican Senatorial Committee chairman. “I am excited about this expanded opportunity to serve Coloradans and make their voice heard on a larger stage. I am honored to have the confidence of the other Republican Senators to take on this leadership role and I won’t let them down,” said Sen. Gardner. “It’s an honor to once again have been chosen by my colleagues to continue serving as their leader,” said Sen. McConnell. “I know I speak for each of my Republican colleagues in expressing my gratitude to the American people for entrusting us with this majority. We are eager to work with House Republicans and President-elect Trump to bring the national and economic security our nation is asking for.” “I’m grateful for the privilege to again help lead my colleagues and build on the progress we’ve been able to make over the last two years in the Majority,” Sen. Cornyn said. “The hallmark Texas principles of limited government and individual liberty will continue to guide me as we work with the new Republican Administration to chart a new direction for the country.” “I’m honored my colleagues re-elected me to serve as chair of the Senate Republican Conference,” said Sen. Thune. “The Republican-led Congress will work with President-elect Trump and our colleagues across the aisle to continue the work we began two years ago to improve Americans’ economic security and protect our nation. We have a lot of work to do, and we look forward to bringing our country together to address the big challenges we face.” “I am grateful for the opportunity to lead a unified Republican Policy Committee. We plan to move quickly to support our conference and to work closely with the new administration,” said Sen. Barrasso. “There are clearly policy areas that will be high on the list for the new Congress. Jobs, the economy, protecting our homeland and dismantling Obamacare will drive much of the agenda. It is critical during those first 100 days that we get the policy right.” “I’m proud that the American people have returned a Republican majority to the Senate to continue advancing their priorities,” said Sen. Blunt. “Now more than ever, it is critical that we maintain an open and robust dialogue with the American people about the challenges they’re facing and what we’re doing to address them. I thank my colleagues for this opportunity, and look forward to continuing our efforts to expand our digital reach, meet people where they are, and help bring this country together.” Audio of Gardner’s statement is available to download HERE. ###
11.14.2016	11.14.16 House Approves Gardner’s Bill to Measure Impact of Outdoor Recreation on U.S. Economy Washington, DC – The U.S. House of Representatives today approved Senator Cory Gardner’s (R-CO) Outdoor Recreation Jobs and Economic Impact Act, a bipartisan bill that would inform policymakers and business leaders on the jobs created, and the consumer spending driven by, the outdoor recreation economy. In April, Secretary of the Interior Sally Jewell announced the Federal Recreation Council will work with the Commerce Department’s Bureau of Economic Analysis to assess the economic impact of the outdoor recreation industry. Prior to this announcement, however, the federal government had never measured outdoor recreation’s impact on the nation’s economy despite estimations that this sector generates $646 billion in consumer spending each year and supports 6.1 million jobs. Gardner’s legislation will ensure this assessment is codified. “The House’s approval of the Outdoor Recreation Jobs and Economic Impact Act represents a step forward toward ensuring that the outdoor recreation industry’s impact on the economy is measured. This is important not only to states like Colorado, but to communities throughout the country who also know outdoor recreation as a way of life,” said Gardner. “My bill will highlight the industry’s economic benefit and allow policymakers to make more informed decisions, and I look forward to continue working with Senator Shaheen to further advance this legislation.” The Outdoor Recreation Jobs and Economic Impact Act is supported by over 60 organizations and businesses, including the Outdoor Industry Association and the U.S. Travel Association. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
11.14.2016	11.14.16 Gardner Secures Waiver to Allow Alamosa Airport to Continue Commercial Service Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the below statement announcing the Department of Transportation (DOT) granted a waiver petition to Alamosa Airport for Essential Air Services, allowing the airport to continue to provide commercial service. “I’m thrilled Alamosa Airport can continue to provide commercial service to the rural Coloradans who rely on it,” said Gardner. “I was an outspoken advocate on behalf of the region and Alamosa Airport in its pursuit of the waiver, and today I welcome the Department of Transportation’s announcement that it granted its waiver for Essential Air Services.” In September, Gardner sent a letter to DOT Secretary Anthony Foxx requesting the DOT give full and fair consideration to Alamosa Airport’s petition for a waiver from the Essential Air Services program’s subsidy-per-passenger cap. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
11.11.2015	11.11.15 Gardner Statement On Veterans Day Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released a statement today in honor of Veterans Day: “Today, we honor all of those who have sacrificed so much to defend the freedoms that make this country great. We are forever indebted to those who answered the call to serve; it is because of their commitment that we can continue to live in a nation with unlimited opportunities. A nation founded in liberty and rooted in principles that provoke hope and optimism. "Our men and women in uniform represent the best this country has to offer, and it is our responsibility to take care of those who have taken care of us. I’ll continue to work to ensure that veterans have access to the care they deserve, and I’m committed to fighting for a VA that is accountable to the people it was created to serve. I’m grateful for all of those who protect our country and the values that make it unique, and I urge Coloradans and Americans around the country to join me in expressing gratitude for their enormous sacrifices.” ###
11.09.2016	11.09.16 Gardner Congratulates President-Elect Denver, CO – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement following the election of Donald J. Trump: "I offer my congratulations tonight to President-Elect Donald Trump. A hard-fought election is over, and I echo the President-Elect's call for us to come together as one united people to move our nation forward." ###
11.01.2016	11.01.16 Gardner Statement on Taiwan's Inclusion in INTERPOL Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy, released the below statement advocating for the inclusion of Taiwan in the International Criminal Police Organization (INTERPOL) ahead of the 85th INTERPOL General Assembly. In March, the President signed Gardner-authored legislation into law that requires the United States Department of State to develop a strategy to include Taiwan as an observer in the organization. “As we approach the 85th International Criminal Police Organization (INTERPOL) General Assembly, it is imperative Taiwan is granted observer status to this organization,” said Gardner. “Taiwan's exclusion heightens the risk of terrorism, which is why I have been a strong advocate for them being admitted into INTERPOL. I recently authored legislation that was signed into law in March, that required the United States State Department to develop a strategy to include Taiwan as an observer in INTERPOL. I will continue to advocate for Taiwan to be included in INTERPOL and ensure the United States supports our friend and ally at the General Assembly meeting.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
10.28.2016	10.28.16 Gardner Urges the Revocation of Secretary Clinton’s Security Clearance Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today called for the revocation of Secretary Hillary Clinton’s security clearance following the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s (FBI) announcement that it reopened its investigation into Secretary Clinton’s use of a private server while she was secretary of state. Gardner and Senate Majority Whip John Cornyn (R-TX) previously introduced S. 3135, the Taking Responsibility Using Secured Technologies (TRUST) Act of 2016, legislation that would revoke Secretary Clinton’s security clearance as well as the security clearances of Secretary Clinton’s colleagues at the State Department who exhibited extreme carelessness in their handling of classified information. Additionally, the TRUST Act expresses the sense of Congress that Secretary Clinton should not have access to classified information again until she earns the legal right to such access. “Today’s announcement from the FBI must propel action to revoke Secretary Clinton’s access to classified information, as well as the security clearances of her senior staff who have proven to be cavalier with sensitive information,” said Gardner. “Secretary Clinton’s reckless use of a private email server was an open invitation to foreign hackers to access highly sensitive information. Therefore, Coloradans and Americans across the country have reason to mistrust Secretary Clinton with classified information, particularly in light of the FBI’s ongoing investigation.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
10.28.2016	10.28.16 Gardner Leads Delegation Letter Requesting Colorado Disaster Relief Projects Funding Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), along with Senator Michael Bennet (D-CO), Congresswoman Diana DeGette (CO-1), Congressmen Jared Polis (CO-2), Scott Tipton (CO-3), Ken Buck (CO-4), Doug Lamborn (CO-5), Mike Coffman (CO-6), and Ed Perlmutter (CO-7) sent a letter to Senate Appropriations Committee Chairman Thad Cochran (R-MI) and Vice Chairwoman Barbara Mikulski (D-MD) and House Appropriations Committee Chairman Hal Rogers (KY-05) and Ranking Member Nita Lowey (NY-17) regarding funding for disaster relief projects related to the 2013 floods in Colorado. The letter reads in full: Dear Chairman Cochran, Vice Chairwoman Mikulski, Chairman Rogers, and Ranking Member Lowey: We write in support of adequate funding for the Federal Highway Administration’s (FHWA) Emergency Relief (ER) account (23 U.S.C. § 125) to address disaster relief and mitigation projects in Colorado. According to the Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT), the ER account is facing a significant shortfall of available funds to allocate to eligible requests from multiple states. It is likely that several recent natural disasters around the country will only add to this problem. CDOT has informed our offices that it could be 20 years for our state to receive sufficient funding through the ER account to complete the remaining projects from the 2013 floods. Our communities and our state economy cannot risk waiting 20 years to permanently repair our infrastructure. In fact, significant delays in completing permanent repairs will put at risk the temporary repairs made in the immediate aftermath of the disaster, potentially costing additional taxpayer dollars. As a delegation, we look forward to working with you and the entire Committee in any way possible to find a solution to this critical issue facing Colorado and many states across the country. ###
10.27.2016	10.27.16 Gardner Meets with Local Officials Responding to Junkins and Beulah Hill Fires Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statement following his visit with local officials, county commissioners, and emergency personnel responding to the Junkins and Beulah Hill fires in southern Colorado. Gardner began the day at the Westcliffe Command Center where he met with local officials and Beth Lund, the Type 1 Incident Commander overseeing the Junkins fire response. He then attended a wildfire and public safety roundtable with Pueblo County commissioners and emergency service staff to discuss the Beulah Hill fire and wildfire prevention at the Pueblo Emergency Operations Center. “Colorado is fortunate to have such dedicated men and women fighting to protect Coloradans, their homes, and their personal property, and I’m thankful for their service,” said Gardner. “I had productive conversations with our local officials responsible for responding to these fires, and I’ll continue to work with community responders to ensure Colorado has the resources it needs to contain, mitigate, and prevent these blazes.” Click here for photos from Senator Gardner’s visit. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
10.25.2016	10.25.16 Gardner, Bennet, Tipton Urge FCC to Approve La Plata County Petition for Denver TV La Plata County, CO – Today, Colorado U.S. Senators Cory Gardner and Michael Bennet and Congressman Scott Tipton sent a letter to Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Chairman Tom Wheeler urging quick approval of La Plata County’s petition for inclusion into the Denver television market for satellite television. The letter was included in the county’s market modification petition, which was approved today by the La Plata County Commission. The petition asks the FCC to permanently modify the Denver local television market to include La Plata County. This would allow La Plata County satellite subscribers to access Denver broadcast television. Currently, La Plata and Montezuma counties receive television broadcasts from New Mexico rather than Colorado, and thus do not receive local news, sports, and emergency information. In the letter the lawmakers wrote: “For the past several years, our offices have worked together with the satellite providers and broadcasters to find a workable solution to the orphan county issue,” Tipton said. “While we were able to find temporary fixes to provide some viewers with Denver television, it’s time for a permanent solution.” “For too long, many Coloradans in the Four Corners region have been unable to receive Colorado news, weather, and sports,” said Gardner. “Since my time in the House of Representatives, I have worked with members of both parties to bring Colorado TV to the southwest and met with local officials in Colorado to discuss how to resolve the issue. If approved, this bipartisan and locally-driven effort will benefit southwest Coloradans and I’m proud of the work we have done thus far. I strongly support La Plata County’s petition to the FCC, and I look forward to continuing to work with interested stakeholders to ensure no part of Colorado is forgotten.” “It’s commonsense that people living in Colorado should have access to Colorado news, sports, and programming,” Bennet said. “We have been working with Montezuma and La Plata counties, satellite providers, and Denver broadcasters for years on this problem and these communities have waited far too long. The approval and submission of this market modification petition is a critical step forward that will bring us closer to resolving this issue. We appreciate the leadership of the La Plata County Commission and their staff to assemble and submit this petition.” “In 2014, FCC Chairman Thomas Wheeler gave me his word that he would work with our office to bring Colorado TV broadcasts to the residents of Southwest Colorado,” Tipton said. “This is an issue that has taken too long to resolve, but I am glad to see that the county’s petition was approved by the county commission and we are a step closer to bringing relevant TV broadcasts to families in La Plata County.” Following up on the passage of the STELAR Act, Bennet, Gardner, and Tipton wrote a letter to the FCC requesting this rule change so that county commissions in the Four Corners region could petition the FCC directly to change broadcasting markets to better serve their communities. Full text of the letter below: Dear Chairman Wheeler: We write in strong support of La Plata County’s market modification petition for inclusion into the Denver, Colorado, designated market area (DMA). Their submission is the result of years of work by the county and its residents who have demanded access to in-state television programming for local news, weather, and sports. La Plata County is part of the Albuquerque, New Mexico DMA. As such, television subscribers do not have access to Colorado programming, including critical information, such as developments from the state capital, and local sports and weather. For the past several years, our offices have worked together with the satellite providers and broadcasters to find a workable solution to the orphan county issue. While were able to find temporary fixes to provide some viewers with Denver television, it is time for a permanent solution. With the Denver broadcasters indicating their willingness to negotiate carriage of their programming to all Colorado viewers, and the satellite companies indicating that carriage is feasible, we hope this petition will resolve the issue for viewers in La Plata County. We are pleased the Commission set forth the process that allows local governments to petition for market modification, based on language we secured in the Satellite Television Extension and Localism Act Reauthorization (STELAR) Act of 2014. In fact, in its September 2015 final rulemaking, the Commission specifically cited our April 2015 letter detailing La Plata County’s situation as an “orphan county” in adopting new market modification rules. We urge the Commission to swiftly review this petition and work with all relevant parties to quickly complete consideration of the market modification process. Thank you for your consideration. ###
10.25.2016	10.25.16 Gardner Statement on Obamacare Premium Increases Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the below statement after the Obama Administration announced monthly premiums for mid-level health plans sold on the federal exchange will increase by 25 percent, the sharpest hike on the federal exchange since the President’s signature health care policy was signed into law. “It’s troubling that Americans throughout the country are once again facing a massive premium increase, and this time they’re forced to swallow the sharpest hike yet. Obamacare was sold to the country on the premise of its affordability, however, this announcement is further evidence that this misguided law is anything but affordable,” said Gardner. “The rise in the cost of monthly premiums will have a visible, significant negative impact on the individuals and families who rely on the federal exchange for health care. That’s why it’s far past time to institute health care solutions that will be effective in preserving choice and keeping down costs.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
10.20.2016	10.20.16 Inspector General to Investigate Reports of “Wait Lists” at Colorado VA Facilities WASHINGTON — Sen. Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Sen. Ron Johnson (R-WI), chairman of the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, received a response from Michael Missal, Inspector General of the Department of Veterans Affairs, stating that the Office of Inspector General was ‎investigating the issues brought to his attention by the senators. In September, Sens. Johnson and Gardner wrote a letter‎ ‎to Inspector General Missal requesting that he open an inquiry into possible “wait lists” that may have contributed to a veteran’s suicide while waiting for PTSD treatment at a Colorado Springs VA facility. A whistleblower has alleged the facility might have falsified the veteran’s medical records following his death. “I welcome the Inspector General’s review of potential unauthorized wait lists and falsification of documents at VA facilities in Colorado,” said Gardner. “These allegations are serious and therefore must be met with a thorough, comprehensive investigation. I remain committed to fighting for transparency and accountability from the VA, and I look forward to reviewing the Inspector General’s findings.” “I appreciate the VA inspector general’s response to our request to conduct a review of these serious allegations of the use of secret wait lists to manage veteran care,” said Johnson. “As we’ve seen at VA facilities in Wisconsin, it is vital that allegations of wrongdoing at VA facilities be investigated promptly and thoroughly. Our veterans, the finest among us, deserve the best quality care. I look forward to reviewing the IG report when it is complete.” The Honorable Cory Gardner United States Senate Washington, DC 20510 Dear Senator Gardner: This is in response to your cosigned September 19, 2016 letter requesting that the Office of Inspector General (OIG) review the alleged use of unofficial wait lists to manage health care for veterans at the Eastern Colorado Health Care System in Denver, Colorado as well as its Golden and Colorado Springs, Colorado Community-Based Outpatient Clinics (CBOC). Additionally, you requested we review the alleged falsification of documents related to the suicide of a veteran waiting for Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder at the Colorado Springs CBOC. The circumstances regarding the alleged document falsification as well as the alleged use of unofficial wait lists are now under review by OIG staff. Upon completion of our review, we will make every effort to share whatever information we can in accordance with applicable law. We provided a similar response to Senator Johnson under separate cover. Thank you for your interest in the Department of Veterans Affairs. Sincerely, Michael J. Missal ###
10.19.2016	10.19.16 Gardner Leads Effort for VA Choice Program Reforms Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today sent a letter with Congressmen Scott Tipton (CO-3), Ken Buck (CO-4), Doug Lamborn (CO-5), and Mike Coffman (CO-06) to Secretary of Veterans Affairs (VA) Robert McDonald calling for swift improvements to be made to streamline and modernize the Veterans Choice Program’s payment, authorization, and referral systems that have been suffering due to Health Net’s poor management. This poor management is threatening the integrity of the Veterans Choice Program, and therefore, threatening timely access to health care for our veterans in Colorado. The letter reads in full: The Honorable Robert A. McDonald Secretary of Veterans Affairs U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs 810 Vermont Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20420 Dear Secretary McDonald: We write today to request you take immediate action to streamline and modernize the inefficient payment, authorization, and referral systems that the Veterans Choice program, under the administration of Health Net, has been using to reimburse non-VA providers participating in the program. In every corner of Colorado, we have received complaints about Health Net’s poor management of the Choice Program. The effectiveness of the Veterans Choice Program depends on the willingness of non-VA providers to participate in the program, and Health Net’s inability to reimburse these providers in a timely manner – or in some cases, Health Net’s inability to reimburse these providers at all – severely undermines their willingness. Some non-VA providers in Colorado have now stopped seeing veterans altogether because of Health Net’s mismanagement. As a result, veterans are not receiving the care they need when they need it. The Choice program was intended to expand and ensure access to care for veterans who are shut out of the system due to its inefficiencies, and allow them to seek care from non-VA providers in the interim. The idea that any veteran should languish at the bottom of a VA wait list, and be unable to find alternative care due to the VA’s incompetence, is an outrage, and yet these continuous complaints lead us to believe that this is exactly what is happening to our veterans in Colorado who wish to utilize the Veterans Choice Program. We request you work with Heath Net to setup a quick response team to address the provider reimbursement backlog. In addition to taking immediate corrective action, we ask that you respond to this letter with specific improvements that have or will been taken to address the following issues non-VA providers are having with Health Net: Lost referrals and authorizations; Multiple authorization requirements for different procedures required from the same non-VA provider (Example: CT scans and MRIs require patients to return to the referring VA clinic for another referral); and Payment denials with codes used that are not identifiable by the insurance provider or Health Net representatives. We request a response by Nov. 30, 2016. If any actions are not yet completed at the time of your response, please provide an estimated date of completion. Our veterans have made countless sacrifices for our country, and it is our highest duty to ensure that they receive the timeliest access to the highest quality care possible. ###
10.18.2016	10.18.16 Gardner Statement on Junkins Fire Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the below statement on the Junkins fire burning near Westcliffe. According to reports, the Junkins Fire has increased to 15,751 acres and evacuations have been ordered in Custer and Pueblo counties. A Type I Management Team is expected to take over operations on Wednesday morning. Custer County, Pueblo County, Fremont County, U.S. Forest Service, Bureau of Land Management, and the Governor’s Office are all working together to control this fire. On October 17, 2016, the Federal Emergency Management Administration (FEMA) designated the Junkins fire as a major disaster. “All residents should follow updates on the fire’s status from the Colorado Division of Homeland Security Emergency Management, the Colorado Division of Fire Prevention and Control, the Pueblo and Custer County Sheriff Offices, and take all evacuation orders seriously,” said Gardner. “My office will continue to monitor the situation and remain in contact with local officials. My thoughts are with the families who are affected and our brave emergency personnel who are working around-the-clock to contain this fire.” Junkins Fire Information and Resources: • Colorado Division of Homeland Security Emergency Management • Colorado Division of Fire Prevention and Control Twitter: @COStateFire • Junkins Fire Information Team Twitter: @junkinsfire • Pueblo County Sheriff Twitter: @PuebloCountySO • Pueblo County Sherriff Facebook ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
10.12.2016	10.12.16 Gardner, Colleagues Question Secret Iran Ransom Payments Washington, DC – Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO), Ted Cruz (R-TX), Kelly Ayotte (R-NH), and 15 other senators today sent a letter to Secretary of Defense Ashton Carter and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs General Joseph Dunford regarding the Obama Administration’s $1.7 billion secret ransom payment to Iran. In the letter, Senator Gardner and his colleagues express concern that the Obama Administration did not notify top U.S. military officials of the secret payment and the fact that Iran is using these funds to bolster its military. As a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Gardner has been a vocal opponent of the President’s deal with Iran. Before the deal was reached, Gardner warned about the dangers of a nuclear Iran, and denounced the deal. After reports of Iranian violations of U.N. sanctions, Gardner sent a letter to President Obama asking for a response to Iran’s violations. On the floor of the Senate, Gardner spoke out about the troubling aspects of the deal and urged his colleagues to reject it. Gardner also called on the Administration to explain reports that the United States agreed in secret to grant Iran exemptions and create a loophole to solidify the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) ahead of its deadline. Most recently, Gardner introduced the No Ransom Payments Act authored by Senator Marco Rubio (R-FL). If enacted, this legislation will prohibit the United States Treasury Department from using the Judgment Fund, which was established to pay money owed by the U.S. government, to make any payments to Iran until Iran returns the ransom payment it received and compensates American victims of Iranian terrorism. Furthermore, it prohibits the United States from making ransom payments to any country. The letter reads in full: Dear Secretary Carter and General Dunford: Thank you for your testimony before the Senate Armed Services Committee on Thursday, September 22, 2016. We appreciate your willingness to share your views on the significant challenges our nation faces around the globe, and we are writing to follow up on the discussion regarding the Islamic Republic of Iran. As you know, earlier this year, the administration provided $1.7 billion in cash to Iran. As was raised in the hearing, there are reports that Iran has funneled this money into its military budget. The plain purpose of transferring the payment in cash to Tehran was to circumvent the effects of U.S. and international financial sanctions. Iran is almost certainly using this windfall to skirt the arms embargo and illicitly purchase weapons for the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC), the terrorist organization Hezbollah, and/or the murderous Assad regime in Syria. We are deeply concerned that this large infusion of U.S. taxpayer-funded cash into the coffers of the world's leading state sponsor of terrorism is going to further embolden Iran and result in our troops and our allies confronting more lethal and better equipped adversaries and potential adversaries. General Dunford, in your testimony you referred to this possibility as “troubling.” You also testified that Iran will be “more effective” in spreading malign influence with the additional funds and said that, “…I would prefer that we not provide additional resources to Iran.” In addition, you referred to the decision as “political,” and noted that regarding the payment being a ransom, you have “only read open source reporting on that.” When discussing the nature and potential consequences of the payment, Secretary Carter, you informed us that the Pentagon had not been consulted in the decision-making process, testifying that, “I don’t know all the details of it, and the Chairman and I were not involved in that. It is a decision that was taken by the law enforcement and the diplomatic community, and I would have to refer you there.” While we understand that other agencies and departments would be in the lead for such a transaction, we are deeply concerned that President Obama and the rest of the administration did not think it was necessary to even notify the Secretary of Defense or the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff that the United States was about to provide the world’s leading state sponsor of terrorism with $1.7 billion in cash. It seems clear that the Obama administration’s injection of substantial, liquid financial resources into Iran’s military budget also has significant and obvious implications for America’s national security interests and required military posture in the Middle East. These additional funds for Iran’s military budget are troubling especially in light of the increasingly belligerent behavior of Tehran since the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action went into effect. In addition to supporting Hezbollah and Assad, since last January, Iran has illegally detained ten American sailors, repeatedly tested ballistic missiles, incessantly harassed U.S. naval vessels, and unjustly imprisoned American citizens. In light of these facts, we respectfully ask that you submit written answers to the questions below: 1. Is it the Department of Defense’s assessment that the $1.7 billion in cash the administration provided to Iran has been primarily devoted to Iran’s military budget? 2. How does the Department of Defense assess that Iran will spend these additional military resources? 3. What are the tactical, operational, or strategic implications for the United States of these additional resources, and how does the Department of Defense plan to respond? 4. Have any of the United States’ Middle East regional partners expressed concern to you regarding Iran’s increasing belligerence, as well as Tehran’s growing military investment? 5. Do you see a correlation between the increased financial resources now available to Iran and the increase in its belligerent activities? 6. When decisions of this nature are made in the future, do you think it would be helpful for other entities of the executive branch, including the White House and National Security Council, to consult the Defense Department beforehand? Thank you both for your distinguished service to our country. We appreciate your assistance regarding this important matter, and we would appreciate a response by October 29. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
10.07.2016	10.07.16 Gardner To Introduce Legislation to Impose Sweeping Cyber Sanctions on Russia Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity, today announced his intention to introduce legislation that sanctions Russia’s cyber criminals following the Obama Administration’s public accusation that Russia authorized cyber-attacks on U.S. political organizations. The legislation will mandate the Obama Administration investigate persons who have engaged in significant activities undermining cybersecurity and aggressively pursue sanctions when appropriate, similar to the cyber provision within Gardner’s North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act. “Today’s news is further evidence of what happens when the Obama Administration fails to take the cyber threat seriously. That is why I plan to introduce legislation that builds upon my North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act by mandating the Administration sanction Russia’s bad actors who are responsible for malicious cyber activities,” said Gardner. “Russia’s interference with American democracy is a direct threat to our political process, and it may only be the tip of the iceberg. It is imperative that Russia’s behavior is met with strength in the form of aggressive sanctions to show the world that its cybercrimes will not be tolerated.” ###
10.07.2016	10.07.16 President Signs Gardner Bill to Name Pueblo VA Clinic After Colorado Veteran Into Law Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the following statement after President Obama today signed S. 3283, a bill Gardner introduced to name the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Community Based Outpatient Clinic in Pueblo after Private First Class (PFC) James Dunn, into law. The legislation was approved by the Senate with unanimous consent on July 14, 2016 and H.R. 5901, introduced by Rep. Scott Tipton (CO-03), passed by the House of Representatives on September 28, 2016. During WWII, PFC James Dunn was assigned to the 3rd Battalion 6th Marines and saw combat action during the Battle of Guadalcanal in the Solomon Islands. Dunn took command of his platoon after his commander was severely injured from enemy fire during a patrol. Dunn then led his fellow Marines to safe cover and was ordered to withdraw without the wounded. Dunn, however, returned to his wounded comrades and helped evacuate them while under heavy incoming machine gun and mortar fire. “Private First Class Dunn, a Colorado native and a Navy Cross recipient, bravely served his country and the VA clinic in Pueblo will now serve as a constant reminder of that. His heroic and selfless actions embody what it means to truly love your county and your fellow man,” said Gardner. “I look forward to the visual reminder of Private First Class Dunn’s service in Pueblo, and I’m proud that future generations of Coloradans can look to his example of a soldier’s sacrifice for the freedoms that make this country so great.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
10.07.2016	10.07.16 Gardner Receives “Friend of Farm Bureau” Award Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) was presented with the “Friend of Farm Bureau” award by the Colorado Farm Bureau at a ceremony at Sakata Farms in Brighton. According to the Colorado Farm Bureau, the award is given to members of Congress “who work to support agriculture and rural Colorado.” Gardner is a passionate advocate for farmers, ranchers and rural Coloradans. He has spent his time in public office championing agriculture. Gardner received the award every year as a state legislator dating back to 2006 and was honored at the end of each Congress when he represented Colorado’s fourth congressional district in 2012 and 2014. In August, Gardner concluded his Second Annual Colorado Farm Tour – meeting with local farm bureaus, traveling over 1,600 miles, making more than 30 stops, and visiting 27 counties on the Western Slope and Eastern Plains. “It’s a great honor to receive the ‘Friend of Farm Bureau’ award from the Colorado Farm Bureau,” said Gardner. “Growing up in rural Colorado and working at my family’s farm implement dealership in Yuma, I developed a deep appreciation for agriculture and understand how important it is to rural communities across the Centennial state. More than 36,000 farms and ranches throughout the state contribute to countless jobs and play a major role in Colorado’s economy. Washington’s one-size-fits-all approach to regulation often hurts our farmers and ranchers, and I’ll continue to push for fewer regulations, and instead champion policies that help the agricultural industry thrive.” "It's gratifying to see Senator Gardner's support for agriculture and food production, and it is reflected in his votes. We thank him for his service and support with one of Farm Bureau's highest legislative honors,” CFB president Don Shawcroft said. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
10.07.2016	10.07.16 Gardner Announces $6 Million Smart City Program Grant for Denver Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today the United States Department of Transportation (DOT) awarded a $6,000,007 grant to Denver, Colorado from the Advanced Transportation Congestion Management Technologies Deployment Program (ATCMTD). According to the DOT, the FAST Act established the ATCMTD program “to make competitive grants for the development of model deployment sites for large scale installation and operation of advanced transportation technologies to improve safety, efficiency, system performance, and infrastructure return on investment.” Last year, Gardner voted for the FAST Act, the first long-term highway transportation bill since 1998. The legislation allowed for localities to have certainty in their long-term planning and the funding from this grant is a direct result of this legislation. Gardner also sent a letter to DOT Secretary Anthony Foxx in support of this grant. “Denver is one of the fastest growing cities in the country and it’s important the city updates its infrastructure to keep pace with that growth,” said Gardner. “Last year, I voted for the FAST Act because it provided the long-term certainty needed to plan for Colorado’s infrastructure upgrades. This $6 million grant to Denver is a direct result of that legislation and I’m delighted that Coloradans will benefit from this award. I’ll continue to advocate for Colorado communities at the federal level and ensure that the Centennial state receives the resources it deserves.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
10.04.2016	10.04.16 Gardner Statement on Beulah Hill Fire Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the below statement on the Beulah Hill fire that is burning southwest of Pueblo. According to reports, the Beulah Hill fire has increased to 4,800 acres. A Type 2 Incident Management Team has been ordered to take control of the fire response, and the Pueblo County Sherriff’s office has ordered evacuations in a two-mile radius of the Hurricane Ranch area. “I encourage all residents to follow updates on the fire’s status from the Colorado Division of Homeland Security Emergency Management and the Colorado Division of Fire Prevention and Control, and the Pueblo County Sheriff and take recommended action to stay safe,” said Gardner. “I will remain in contact with Governor Hickenlooper and local officials about the state’s emergency response, and I thank our brave emergency personnel for their efforts to contain the fire and protect personal property.” Beulah Hill Fire Information and Resources: Colorado Division of Homeland Security Emergency Management Colorado Division of Fire Prevention and Control Twitter: @COStateFire Pueblo County Sheriff Twitter: @PuebloCountySO Major Road Impacts and Closures according to the Colorado Division of Homeland Security Emergency Management ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
10.03.2016	10.03.16 Pueblo Receives $875,000 Grant to Hire Law Enforcement Officers Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today that Pueblo, CO received an $875,000 grant from the U.S. Department of Justice’s COPS office through the COPS Hiring Program (CHP). The purpose of the CHP is to advance public safety by providing law enforcement agencies funding to hire new career law enforcement officers and increase their policing capabilities in local communities throughout the country. “Colorado’s law enforcement officers put their lives on the line daily and sacrifice so much to keep our communities safe,” said Gardner. “It’s so important that the law enforcement community has the resources it needs to support the officers and their policing activities. I’m thrilled Pueblo is receiving funding to hire new law enforcement officers and bolster their presence in the community.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
10.03.2016	10.03.16 Gardner, Coons Introduce Bill to Strengthen Medicare Washington, DC – Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Chris Coons (D-DE) introduced the Reducing Medicare Costs Through Innovation Act, legislation that aims to strengthen and protect the Medicare program by spurring innovation to reduce costs. The Reducing Medicare Costs Through Innovation Act establishes a program which would award grants to small, entrepreneurial labs pursuing commercialization for new drugs or medical devices that have the greatest potential to significantly reduce the top 10 cost drivers to the Medicare program while maintaining and improving quality of care. The legislation also requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) and the Administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) to establish an optional coordinated review pilot program that simultaneously assesses grantees for FDA approval and a national coverage determination under the Medicare program. Currently, HHS and CMS evaluate grantees first for FDA approval and then national coverage determination, which prolongs access for Medicare beneficiaries. Lastly, the bill requires the Secretary of HHS to prepare and submit an annual report to Congress about the cost savings and improvements in care resulting from the commercialization grant program. “According to the Congressional Budget Office, Medicare benefit payments reached $597 billion in 2014 and accounted for 14 percent of the federal budget. In order to address the sustainability of the Medicare program, it’s important that we do everything we can to encourage innovation and bring down the cost of care,” said Gardner. “The Reducing Medicare Costs Through Innovation Act is a commonsense bill that has the potential to not only save the Medicare program money, but it could also lead to higher quality care and improved patient outcomes.” “I am proud to join Senator Gardner in introducing this bill to assist more small businesses in getting their innovate technology to the market, in turn reducing long-term costs to our Medicare program. As a member of the Senate Small Business Committee, finding ways to help small businesses grow is something I’ve been proud to champion and I look forward to moving this bill forward," said Coons. ###
10.02.2016	10.02.16 Gardner Statement on Rosh Hashanah Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the following statement celebrating the Jewish New Year, Rosh Hashanah: “I wish all Jewish Coloradans and Americans across the country a happy new year. This joyous occasion is a time to celebrate with family and friends, and I hope everyone has a festive new year. Shanah Tovah.” ###
09.30.2016	09.30.16 Gardner Announces Grants Totaling $6.4 Million for Two Colorado Emergency Agencies Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) awarded two Colorado agencies federal grants. The Colorado Division of Fire Prevention and Control will receive $3,783,532.30 for fire suppression efforts taken during the Waldo Canyon Fire in 2012. Colorado Division of Homeland Security and Emergency Management will receive $1,107,475.94 for “protective measures” taken during severe storms, flooding, landslides, and mudslides in September of 2013. “Colorado’s emergency personnel responded swiftly to both the Waldo Canyon Fire in 2012 and severe weather in September of 2013, and it’s important the federal government is reimbursing the state for these efforts,” said Gardner. “This funding provides certainty to two important Colorado agencies and recognizes the necessary actions Colorado’s first responders perform in any emergency situation.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
09.29.2016	09.29.16 Gardner Announces EPA Grants Totaling Over $260,000 For Gold King Mine Spill Cleanup Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today announced the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is awarding over $260,000 in grants for response and cleanup costs associated with the Gold King Mine spill. Southern Ute Indian Tribe will receive $58,684; La Plata County will receive $7,495; the City of Durango will receive $9,993; San Juan County will receive $80,213; San Juan Basin Health Department will receive $4,591; and the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment will receive $101,465 “to fund expenses related to the City of Durango's water quality monitoring in support of the Bonita Peak Mining District Superfund site.” Earlier this month, Gardner worked to secure a provision within the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA), which expedites the payments of response costs assumed by states, Indian tribes, and local governments. It also requires the EPA to pay for the response costs within 90 days if the costs are consistent with federal law. Lastly, the provision establishes a long-term water quality monitoring program and authorizes the EPA to reimburse the states, Indian tribes, and local governments for this monitoring activity. “I’m encouraged the EPA has awarded more than $260,000 to Colorado communities for costs incurred as a result of the EPA-born Gold King Mine spill,” said Gardner. “The EPA is responsible for this disaster and must continue to support the communities that suffered as a result. I will fight to hold the EPA accountable and ensure all affected communities and individuals are properly compensated.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
09.28.2016	09.28.16 Gardner-Led Legislation Honoring Colorado Veteran Passes U.S. House of Representatives Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statement following the United States House of Representatives passage of S. 3283, legislation to name the new U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Community Based Outpatient Clinic in Pueblo, CO, after Private First Class (PFC) James Dunn, a native of Colorado and Navy Cross recipient. Led by Senator Gardner and Congressman Scott Tipton (CO-03), the Colorado Congressional Delegation introduced the legislation in July and it passed the Senate by unanimous consent on July 14, 2016. During WWII, PFC James Dunn was assigned to the 3rd Battalion 6th Marines and saw combat action during the Battle of Guadalcanal in the Solomon Islands. Dunn took command of his platoon after his commander was severely injured from enemy fire during a patrol. Dunn then led his fellow Marines to safe cover and was ordered to withdraw without the wounded. Dunn, however, returned to his wounded comrades and helped evacuate them while under heavy incoming machine gun and mortar fire. “I welcome the news that the House acted today to pass this important legislation and honor PFC James Dunn,” said Gardner. “PFC Dunn served this country with distinction, and it’s an immense privilege to honor his contributions to our country. In the heat of battle, PFC Dunn did not think twice about risking his own life to save his fellow Marines, and he remains a role model to men and women in the military today. I look forward to the President signing this legislation into law, and ensuring future generations can look toward the VA clinic in Pueblo and remember PFC Dunn’s heroism.” Congressional guidelines for naming a VA clinic require that the person the clinic is named after must be deceased and one of the following: A recipient of the Medal of Honor or otherwise performed military service of an extraordinarily distinguished character; A member of Congress associated with the facility to be named; A veteran instrumental in the construction or the operation of the facility to be named; A top military or civilian official in a service branch, the U.S. Defense Department or U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs; An individual who performed outstanding service for veterans. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
09.28.2016	09.28.16 Gardner Receives Commitment from State Department Official to Sanction Additional Chinese Entities Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity, today chaired a Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee hearing titled, “The Persistent Threat of North Korea and Developing an Effective U.S. Response.” Gardner questioned the Honorable Daniel R. Russel, Assistant Secretary Of State for Bureau Of East Asian And Pacific Affairs, as well as the Honorable Daniel Fried, the United States Department of State Coordinator for Sanctions Policy. At the hearing, Gardner secured a commitment from Fried to sanction additional Chinese entities that are aiding North Korea. Gardner has repeatedly called on the Administration to impose secondary sanctions on individuals and entities tied to North Korea’s nefarious activities. Earlier this month, Gardner sent a letter to President Obama calling for immediate sanctions on Chinese entities that provide assistance to North Korea. Gardner also released a statement following the Obama Administration’s decision to sanction a Chinese company for aiding North Korea. “I’m encouraged the State Department is continuing to implement my North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act by sanctioning a Chinese company and four Chinese nationals for aiding North Korea’s regime and weapons program and I was glad to hear assurance that more designations of Chinese entities are on the way,” said Gardner. “I remain concerned, however, the Administration has not designated any North Korean entities for malicious cyber-enabled activities, despite clear evidence I discussed at the hearing, such as the North Korean hack of F-15 fighter jet designs disclosed in June of this year. We must continue to investigate entities across the board, no matter where they are based, that may be supporting Kim Jong-un and move forward with sanctions, as required under my bill. I will continue to press the Administration to increase pressure on North Korea and stand with our allies in South Korea and Japan to counter this rising aggression.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
09.28.2016	09.28.16 Gardner Announces Over $3.5 Million for Flood Control Improvements in Colorado Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) awarded two grants to improve flood protection in Colorado. According to FEMA, $1,763,534 will be awarded to fund flood protection improvements to Sanderson Gulch and $1,799,126 will be awarded to fund the construction of a new detention pond to protect the Pleasant Valley neighborhood near Garden of the Gods. “It’s important that Colorado has adequate resources to prepare for and protect against flooding, which has had a devastating impact on many of our communities,” said Gardner. “These sizeable FEMA grants will enhance flood protection to help mitigate potential damage that may be caused by inclement weather in the future.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
09.28.2016	09.28.16 Gardner, Roberts, Scott Send Letter to GAO Over Illegal Funds Spent to Relocate GTMO Detainees Washington, DC – Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO), Pat Roberts (R-KS), and Tim Scott (R-SC) today sent a letter to the Honorable Gene L. Dodaro, Comptroller General of the United States and head of the Government Accountability Office (GAO), requesting an opinion on whether or not the DoD violated the Consolidated Appropriations Act – and thus the Antideficiency Act – by spending federal funds to survey potential sites to relocate Guantanamo Bay detainees to the United Sates. The Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2016, which was signed into law in December of 2015, specifically prohibits appropriated funds from being used “to transfer, release, or assist in the transfer or release to or within the United States . . . [any Guantanamo Bay detainee]” and appropriated funds from being used “to construct, acquire, or modify any facility in the United States . . . to house any . . . [detainee].” The letter reads in full: The Honorable Gene L. Dodaro Comptroller General U.S. Government Accountability Office 441 G Street, NW Washington, DC 20548 Dear Mr. Dodaro: This letter is to request your opinion on whether the Department of Defense (DoD), by making expenditures surveying potential sites in three states for the transfer of Guantanamo Bay detainees, violated Section 527 or 528 of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2016. As was widely reported, the DoD spent federal funds studying sites in Colorado, Kansas, and South Carolina to relocate prisoners held at Guantanamo Bay despite specific prohibitions in law. The DoD spent the most money – $11,064.33 – surveying a facility in Florence, CO, as a possible relocation site. These expenditures were made in contravention of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2016, which prohibits the use of any funds to assist in the transfer of any individual detained at Guantanamo Bay to the United States as well as the use of any funds to prepare any facility in the United States to house any Guantanamo detainee. Pub. L. No. 114-92, §§ 1031-1032, 129 Stat. 735, 968 (2015). Moreover, Sections 527 and 528 of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2016, reinforce the prohibitions set forth in the fiscal 2016 NDAA. Specifically, Section 527 prohibits the DoD from using appropriated funds “to transfer, release, or assist in the transfer or release to or within the United States . . . [any Guantanamo Bay detainee],” and Section 528 prohibits the DoD from using appropriated funds “to construct, acquire, or modify any facility in the United States . . . to house any . . . [detainee].” Pub. L. No. 114-113, 129 Stat. 2242, 2329 (2015). The meaning of Sections 527 and 528 is clear and unambiguous; no appropriated funds are legally available for the relocation of Guantanamo Bay detainees to the United States. Given that the DoD spent appropriated funds to survey potential relocation sites for Guantanamo detainees when no money was available for that purpose, we respectfully request your opinion as to whether the DoD violated the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2016, and if so, whether the DoD also violated the Antideficiency Act, 31 U.S.C. § 1341(a). Thank you for your timely assistance.
09.28.2016	09.28.16 Gardner Statement on Passing of Shimon Peres Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the below statement today following the death of former Israeli Prime Minister Shimon Peres: “Former Israeli Prime Minister Shimon Peres’ unbridled commitment to peace in the Middle East set an example for all who are committed to ending conflict in the region. He was a true leader who strived to find solutions to some of the world’s most complex problems, and was awarded a well-deserved Nobel Peace Prize for his efforts. I join the Peres family and all Israelis today as they mourn the passing of one of Israel’s greatest leaders.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
09.27.2016	09.27.16 Administration Heeds Gardner’s Call to Impose Secondary Sanctions on North Korea’s Enablers Treasury Sanctions China-Based Company and Four Chinese Nationals for Supporting North Korea’s Weapons Program Washington, DC – The Obama Administration announced sanctions and indictments against four Chinese nationals and one China-based company, Dandong Hongxiang Industrial Development Company Ltd., for evading U.S. economic sanctions by using front companies to facilitate business with an entity tied to North Korea’s weapons of mass destruction (WMD) program. The sanctions are required by Senator Gardner’s (R-CO) North Korea Policy and Enhancement Act. The announcement precedes a Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy hearing on Wednesday, September 28th, 2016 at 10:00 a.m. that will examine the North Korean threat and the U.S. response. Gardner, Chairman of the Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy, has repeatedly called on the Administration to impose secondary sanctions on individuals and entities tied to North Korea’s nefarious activities. Earlier this month, Gardner sent a letter to President Obama calling for immediate sanctions on Chinese entities that provide assistance to North Korea. “I welcome the Administration’s sanctions against Chinese nationals and a China-based company for their evasion of U.S. economic sanctions and propping up Kim Jong-un’s regime,” said Gardner. “This is a step in the right direction toward ratcheting up the pressure on North Korea. I urge the Administration to continue to move forward with the implementation of my North Korean Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act to counter North Korean aggression and strengthen the U.S. response.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
09.26.2016	09.26.16 Gardner, Colleagues Press for Permanent Reauthorization of LWCF Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), along with several of his colleagues, sent a letter to Senator Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), Chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, regarding the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF) provision in S. 2012, the Energy Policy Modernization Act of 2016, which passed the Senate 85-12 earlier this year. The Senators requested LWCF be permanently authorized “in any legislation that emerges from the Energy bill conference.” LWCF is a critical conservation program that preserves public lands and ensures public access to the outdoors. Gardner has repeatedly called for and voted for the permanent reauthorization of the LWCF as it would provide certainty and benefit the economy, sportsmen, wildlife, and the next generation of Coloradans who wish to enjoy the State’s great outdoors. The letter reads in full: Dear Chairman Murkowski: As strong supporters of the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF), we are writing to thank you for your leadership in crafting S. 2012 the Energy Policy Modernization Act of 2016, and to urge you to ensure that Section 5002 of the bill is included in any final legislation that emerges from the Energy bill conference. As you know, LWCF was created in the spirit of reinvesting the revenues from the sale of our national resources into future resources for all Americans – asset for asset. The Committee recognized the fundamental soundness of this approach – and the compelling need for continued conservation investments in all our states – when it adopted the LWCF language, Section 5002, and rejected weakening amendments. Like many of the 85 members who voted in support of S. 2012 on the floor, we consider LWCF a top policy priority in the context of the Energy bill and believe maintaining this provision is crucial to advancing a conference report through the Senate. LWCF has had incredible bipartisan success over its near half-century of existence, touching all 50 states and nearly every county in America. It is a continuing investment in the economic driver that our federal, state, and local public lands represent. The parks, trails, forests, wildlife refuges, battlefields, historic sites, and working lands sustained by LWCF funding support an outdoor recreation and tourism sector that contributes a total of $646 billion annually to the American economy, supporting 6.1 million jobs (1 out of every 15 jobs in the U.S.). This well-envisioned toolbox is critical for all Americans as it fosters successful partnerships with states, localities, private organizations and landowners to meet unique and pressing conservation, recreation, and historic preservation needs across the country. LWCF has increased access for hunters and anglers on public lands, and has protected fish and game habitat for sportsmen. It preserves historical treasures from Civil War battlefields to our most recent history, such as the United Flight 93 Memorial in Pennsylvania. It helps to ensure that our ranchers and forest owners can keep working the land, and that our local communities can have parks and outdoor recreation sites. We deeply appreciate the ways in which Section 5002 of the bill will sustain these benefits by permanently reauthorizing LWCF; refining the program’s focus on prioritization, cost efficiency, and accountability; and ensuring that this highly successful program continues to meet communities’ conservation needs while helping to protect and maintain our shared heritage. We also enthusiastically support the 1.5 percent sportsmen’s access provision which is critical to increase public access to public lands, as changing land use and ownership patterns create challenges to historic and much-needed access for hunting, fishing, and other outdoor recreation. The importance of these provisions is reflected in their bipartisan passage, not once but twice, by the Committee, and by the full Senate’s decisive rejection of a proposed amendment to alter these provisions on the floor, by a wide bipartisan margin, before approving the bill by an overwhelming vote of 85 to 12. We appreciate your leadership as conference discussions continue, and we want to reaffirm our support for retaining the LWCF provision in any final Energy conference agreement. Please accept our thanks for your efforts to date, and please let us know how we can help you advance this priority program so it can continue to meet the needs of communities across America. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
09.23.2016	09.23.16 Gardner, Colleagues Express Support to Fully Fund PILT Program Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), along with several of his colleagues, sent a letter to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) and Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid (D-NV) requesting the Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) program be fully funded for fiscal year 2017. The PILT program is an important resource for counties across Colorado to assist with essential services to their citizens. PILT provides funding to counties which contain federal land within its borders, offsetting the lost property tax revenue that comes from the non-taxable federal land located within the counties. The letter reads in full: Dear Majority Leader McConnell and Minority Leader Reid, We urge you to work in a bipartisan, bicameral fashion to ensure the Payments in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) program is fully funded for Fiscal Year (FY) 2017 and is offset in a responsible manner. For more than 40 years, the PILT program has played a critical role in supporting our local communities by providing resources to nearly 1,900 counties across 49 states to offset lost property tax revenue due to the presence of tax-exempt federal lands within their jurisdictions. For FY 2017, the U.S. Department of the Interior has estimated that $480 million dollars will be necessary to fully fund PILT. If Congress fails to fully fund the PILT program by the end of the year, public lands counties across the nation will be unable to provide essential public services such as law enforcement, search and rescue, public health and critical transportation infrastructure. Without the certainty of full PILT funding for FY 2017, we risk severely crippling counties' ability to provide essential services for their residents and public lands visitors alike. Moving forward, we hope Congress can work together to enact a fiscally responsible, long-term and sustainable solution to fully fund PILT in FY 2017 and beyond. As counties across the United States work to balance their budgets, it is essential that Congress act to reaffirm the federal government's long-standing commitment to public lands counties by fully funding PILT. We look forward to working with you to end the financial uncertainty facing thousands of counties nationwide, and we thank you for your attention to this critical issue. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
09.23.2016	09.23.16 Senators Gardner, Roberts and Scott: DOD Illegally Spent Funds Studying GTMO Relocation Sites New DoD Document Highlights Illegal Spending on Surveys WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO), Pat Roberts (R-KS), and Tim Scott (R-SC) today said the Department of Defense (DoD) spent federal funds studying sites in Colorado, Kansas, and South Carolina to relocate prisoners held at Guantanamo Bay (GTMO) despite specific prohibitions of such spending in the National Defense Authorization Act signed into law by President Obama. The DoD spent the most money - $11,064.33 - surveying the facility in Florence, CO as a possible relocation site. The National Defense Authorization Act signed into law (Public Law 114-92) in November, 2015, specifically prohibits any funds “to transfer, release, or assist in the transfer or release to or within the United States” of Guantanamo Bay detainees and any funds “to construct or modify any facility in the United States, its territories, or possessions to house any individual detained at Guantanamo.” Nearly one year ago, Gardner sent a letter to President Obama asking for clarification under what legal authority the Administration is conducting the assessments to move detainees from Guantanamo Bay to Colorado. “The Obama Administration’s use of federal funds to survey potential relocation sites for Guantanamo Bay detainees is in direct contradiction to current law. This represents a blatant abuse of power and disregard for a law that President Obama himself signed,” said Gardner. “Nearly one year ago, I wrote President Obama asking what legal basis he has for transferring prisoners from Guantanamo Bay to the United States and how the Administration can legally spend money to send a scouting team to Colorado, and have yet to receive a response. I will pursue all potential options available to hold the Administration accountable for its illegal action, and continue to work to ensure that the terrorists in Guantanamo Bay stay in Cuba and out of our backyards.” Senators Gardner, Roberts, and Scott have been outspoken opponents of President Obama’s intentions to close Guantanamo Bay. They have stated concerns with the recidivism rate among released detainees, the hundreds of millions of dollars it will cost to construct a new facility, and the fact that opening domestic facility would place a “bullseye” for acts of terror on an American community. Gardner has worked to find legislative solutions to block the transfer of Guantanamo Bay detainees to the United States. In May, he introduced an amendment to the Transportation, and Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies (THUD) Appropriations Act that would prohibit the use of funds to transfer Guantanamo Bay detainees from Guantanamo Bay, Cuba to the United States using our airspace. Gardner also introduced legislation that would prevent the transfer or release of Guantanamo Bay detainees to global terror havens, including all countries designated by the United States Department of State as state sponsors of terrorism, currently Iran, Syria, and Sudan. Current U.S. law already prohibits transfers to Yemen, Libya, Somalia, and Syria, but not to Iran and Sudan, where 14 detainees have been transferred over the past decade. In March, Gardner introduced a resolution formally rejecting President Obama’s plan to transfer prisoners from the Guantanamo Bay detention facilities to an alternate location in American communities, which is explicitly prohibited by law. Gardner is also a cosponsor of the Naval Station Guantanamo Bay Protection Act, a bill that stops the President from terminating or modifying the Naval Base at Guantanamo Bay’s lease without Congressional approval. Gardner continues to meet with Coloradans and local law enforcement across the state who are opposed to moving terrorists from Guantanamo Bay to not only Colorado, but anywhere in the United States. Earlier this year, Gardner hosted a town hall in Florence, Colorado focused on national security issues that was attended by local elected officials, including members of the law enforcement community, and other local leaders to discuss issues including the potential transfer of Guantanamo Bay detainees to Colorado and the growing instability in the Middle East. Gardner discussed his visit to the Guantanamo Bay detention facility and reiterated his opposition to the transfer of the detainees to American soil. # # #
09.23.2016	09.23.16 Gardner Announces Over $400,000 in LWCF Grants for Colorado Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced the National Park Service (NPS) awarded three separate Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF) grants to Colorado communities. Cherry Hills Village will receive $130,000 to construct a new section of the High Line Canal Trail Connection; El Paso County will receive $150,000 to construct sections of the Ute Pass Regional Trail; and the town of Bennett will receive $128,000 to construct a one mile section of the Bennett Open Space Trail. “I’m pleased to announce Colorado will receive more than $400,000 in LWCF grants that will benefit three separate Colorado communities,” said Gardner. “Throughout my time in the Senate, I have supported LWCF because it is an essential tool that protects lands for future generations of Coloradans to enjoy. It is also an excellent example of a responsible fiscal partnership between the federal government and private enterprise. I’m thrilled to see three more Colorado communities benefit as a result of LWCF, and I will continue to advocate for LWCF funding on behalf of the Centennial State.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
09.21.2016	09.21.16 Gardner Blasts VA for Aurora Hospital Construction Mismanagement VA Office of Inspector General Report Released Today Washington, DC – The U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Office of Inspector General today released a report that follows an investigation into the Aurora VA hospital construction project. The report concluded that the project experienced significant cost overruns and schedule delays due to a series of “questionable business decisions and mismanagement by VA senior officials in the following areas: inadequate planning and design of the project, initiated construction phase without adequate design plans, a change in the acquisition strategy that contributed to delays and increased costs, and change request processing was untimely.” The facility is expected to be completed by 2018, nearly 20 years after the need for the hospital was identified in the late 1990s. “The VA Office of Inspector General report confirms what Coloradans have long suspected: the VA grossly mismanaged the project from day one and ignored warning signs that the project would be over budget, ” said Gardner. “According to the OIG, Glenn Haggstrom, the VA official responsible for overseeing the project, failed to disclose to Congress during Congressional testimony in 2013 and 2014, never disclosing that the project would likely surpass its budget of $800 million. The VA also prematurely started construction without completed design plans, and rejected cost reduction plans that would have resulted in approximately $400 million in savings.” Gardner has led the effort for the completion of the VA Hospital in Aurora in Congress. In his first month in the Senate, he teamed up with fellow members of the Colorado delegation to introduce the Aurora VA Hospital Financing and Construction Reform Act of 2015, and much of the language Gardner authored was later included in legislation that provided funding to the Aurora hospital. He was also instrumental in pressing for the Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs to hold a field hearing in Colorado in April of 2015. In May, Gardner worked to garner support for the passage of a short-term funding bill that would allow construction to continue after the project ran out of money. In September of 2015, the project once again was threatened to be shut down in the face of cost overruns. Gardner again secured the funding required to complete the hospital by working with leadership in the House of Representatives and in the Senate. Gardner added, “Hundreds of millions of taxpayer dollars evaporated due to the VA’s incompetence, and the people who have suffered most are the Colorado veterans who have been forced to wait for the new facility they were promised for far too long. Now that the OIG investigation is complete, the VA officials responsible for the blatant systemic failures and enormous cost overruns that plagued the project must be held accountable. No more get out of jail free cards. I was proud the Senate passed legislation that would prevent the VA from managing construction projects over $100 million, and I will continue to work to ensure that this VA-born disaster is not replicated. Gardner has continued to press for accountability at the VA, demanding punishment for those responsible for delays and cost overruns. He has continued to monitor the project’s progress, most recently visiting the construction site and meeting with Army Corps of Engineer officials on September 9, 2016. “During a visit to the construction site earlier this month, I was assured the project will meet the new time and budget. I will continue to request updates on the project’s progress and look forward to when the state-of-the-art facility opens its doors. Veterans deserve the best medical care this country has to offer, and I’ll continue to fight to see the VA deliver on its promise,” said Gardner. The report can be found here. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
09.21.2016	09.21.16 Senate Commerce Committee Unanimously Approves Gardner NASA Amendments Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), a member of the Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee, released the below statement following today’s Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee markup where two Gardner-authored amendments passed out of committee unanimously when they were included as part of the NASA Transition Authorization Act of 2016. The first amendment authorizes NASA to consider satellite servicing options for future programs. This amendment encourages NASA to examine the possibility of servicing and refurbishing existing satellites to extend their lifespan and capabilities. The second Gardner-authored amendment requires NASA to develop a plan to reach Mars that includes specific timelines and benchmarks, which will allow Congress to hold the agency accountable and provide proper oversight. “I’m pleased my amendments unanimously passed the Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee because they will encourage NASA to maximize its resources and keep America competitive in space exploration,” said Gardner. “Aerospace plays a major role in Colorado’s economy and contributes to thousands of jobs across the state. I’m proud my colleagues supported these measures, and I’ll continue to exercise my oversight role to promote competition, control costs, and drive innovation.” Since entering the Senate, Gardner has used his position on the Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee to advocate on behalf of Colorado’s space industry. In June, the Senate approved S.2943, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (NDAA), which included language Senator Gardner authored that allows for the Department of Defense (DoD) to purchase rockets from any certified launch provider between now and December 31, 2022 so long as the provider offers the best value to the DoD. Gardner’s fiscally responsible amendment to the NDAA promotes competition, protects our national security, and paves the way for assured access to space, which is critical to the detection of missiles, transmitting secure communication, and gathering intelligence. It is estimated that the amendment could potentially save the DoD as much as $5 billion. Gardner also authored the Space Weather Research and Forecasting Act, bipartisan legislation introduced with Sen. Gary Peters (D-MI) and Sen. Cory Booker (D-NJ) to improve efforts to predict and mitigate the effects of space weather events, which can have significant economic and security implications, on Earth and in space. The legislation will strengthen space weather research and response by delineating clear roles and responsibilities to the agencies that study and predict space weather events, including the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), the National Science Foundation (NSF), and the Department of Defense (DOD). ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
09.20.2016	09.20.16 Gardner: Obamacare Insurance Premium Increases Continue to Hurt Coloradans Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) spoke on the Senate floor today following the Colorado Division of Insurance’s (DOI) announcement of the final premium increases for 2017 insurance plans. According to DOI, premiums for the individual market will increase by 20.4% on average in 2017. Click here to watch the full remarks. Rush Transcript Mr. President, in Washington, D.C. today is just another day of bureaucratic rollouts, regulatory nightmares, and government overreach. But if you're in Colorado today, it's also sticker shock day, because today the people of Colorado found out, thanks to the new numbers just confirmed by the Colorado Division of Insurance, that if you live in that state, you are going to be paying, on average, an additional 20.4% for your health insurance this year under Obamacare. That's the individual rate that was just confirmed for the 2017 plans -- 20.4% increase. Now, remember, the promises that were made when Obamacare was put into law in the most partisan of fashions, the promises that were made, ‘if you like your doctor, you can keep your doctor,’ it's been proven untrue. ‘If you like your health care plan, you can keep your health care plan,’ it's been proven untrue. Why do we know that? Because in Colorado alone, over the past three years, over 750,000 Coloradans have had their insurance plans canceled. Let's just go through those numbers. That's over 92,000 people with individual plans from United Healthcare, Humana, Rocky Mountain Health Plans, and Anthem. They'll be forced to find new plans in 2017. In May, United Healthcare and Humana announced they weren't going to be offering plans in Colorado at all. We've seen Aetna reduce significantly the number of plans that they will be offering. We know that the health care co-op in Colorado collapsed because it was unsustainable thanks to the way that Obamacare was designed, costing over 80,000 Coloradans their health insurance. And back in August of 2013, we saw hundreds of thousands more in Colorado lose their health insurance. That doesn't sound like a promise that's been kept to me. That's a promise that has been broken. We also know that Obamacare promised that it would reduce the premiums by $2,500 per family. But here we are today talking about a 20.4% rate increase on the Colorado people alone, and we know from studies that show that one-third of Colorado counties aren't even going to have a choice of more than one insurance provider to choose from. That, despite the third Obamacare promise, that the people of this country would have more opportunities to buy different insurance products, more choice, more consumer insurance options, yet over a third of the counties in this country will have only one choice or perhaps even fewer. That's why legislation that has been introduced in recent days by Senator McCain and Senator Sasse are so important. And what do they do? Senator Sasse has introduced legislation that says if an insurance increase is more than 10%, then you don't have to abide by the individual mandate, forcing people to pay these outrageous increases thanks to Obamacare. It also says it if you're paying 8% of your income in insurance premiums then you don't have to abide by the mandate of Obamacare. It gives people the ability to actually have that financial certainty that they're looking for, the certainty that Obamacare promised but failed to deliver. Senator McCain says that if a county has one or fewer health insurance options to choose from, then they also will receive relief from Obamacare's individual mandate. These are important because in states like Colorado the government is forcing you to pay at least 20.4% more if you're in the individual market. That's the average rate increase. Now, while 20.4% in the 2017 plans is certainly a significant amount, that's on top of last year's rate increases. If you live on the Western Slope of Colorado, last year you saw average premium rates in the individual market increase by 25.8%. One of the most expensive markets in the country, the Western Slope of Colorado. The mountains of our state. So between these two years -- now, we haven't been able to break down what it means on the Western Slope -- that individual impact might even be higher on Colorado's Western Slope. We don't quite have those numbers broken down because it was just released today, this massive increase under Obamacare. But if you just take the statewide average of the individual plan of 20.4% with 25% increase last year, that's an almost 50% increase in insurance over the past two years. 2017 which will increase 20.4% on average, and this past year of 25.8%. That's nearly 50% increase. The people of Colorado can't afford Obamacare. Obamacare can't keep its promises. We've got to find real solutions for the American people. And I urge the President to come forward with the acknowledgment that his signature law is a signature failure. Mr. President, I yield the floor and I suggest the absence of a quorum. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
09.20.2016	09.20.16 Gardner Statement on Obamacare Premium Increases in Colorado Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the below statement on the Colorado Division of Insurance (DOI) final premium increases for 2017 insurance plans. According to DOI, premiums for the individual market will increase by 20.4% on average in 2017. In May, UnitedHealthcare and Humana announced they will not offer individual plans in 2017, impacting approximately 20,000 Coloradans. In June, the Colorado DOI announced approximately 92,000 people with individual plans from UnitedHealthcare, Humana, Rocky Mountain Health Plans (RMHP), and Anthem will be forced to find new plans for 2017. “Once again, Coloradans will be faced with skyrocketing premium increases thanks to a law that was sold to them on the premise of affordability, choice, and access to care,” said Gardner. “President Obama repeatedly told the American people that ‘if you like your plan, you can keep it’ and stated the average family of four would pay $2,500 less annually by the end of his first term under his signature health care law. Now, these broken promises are having a dramatic effect on hardworking families in Colorado and throughout the country. Today’s news is devastating for the thousands of Coloradans who now may face difficult choices. “It’s critical that we work together toward real solutions that address the unintended consequences of the President’s health care laws and the negative, visible impact it’s having on individuals, families, and small businesses. I’ll continue to fight for an approach that aims to deliver real health care reform by controlling costs and protecting the doctor-patient relationship.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
09.20.2016	09.20.16 Gardner, Johnson Request Investigation Following Reports of “Wait Lists” at Colorado VA Facilities WASHINGTON – Sens. Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Ron Johnson (R-WI), chairman of the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, wrote to Department of Veterans Affairs Inspector General Michael Missal on Monday requesting that he open an inquiry into a whistleblower report of possible “wait lists” that may have contributed to a veteran's suicide while waiting for PTSD treatment at a Colorado Springs VA facility. This whistleblower has alleged the facility might have falsified the veteran’s medical records following his death. “In early September 2016, our offices received information from a whistleblower connected with the Denver VAMC. The whistleblower expressed concern about the existence of ‘wait lists’ involving patients at the Denver VAMC, as well as the Colorado Springs, Colorado, and Golden, Colorado, VA facilities,” the senators wrote. “The whistleblower raised concerns about a specific situation in which a 26-year old Army Ranger committed suicide while waiting for Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) care from the Colorado Springs facility. This whistleblower believes the Colorado Springs facility may have falsified documents after the suicide. “Disturbingly, on September 13, the whistleblower received a VA Memorandum, demanding that the whistleblower’s appearance for a ‘Fact-Finding Interview’ about ‘an alleged privacy violation.’ In an effort to ensure the VA OIG is fully aware of these issues concerning the Denver VAMC, and based on the whistleblower’s agreement, our staffs are prepared to provide the VA OIG with information received from the whistleblower to allow the VA OIG to aggressively pursue this serious issue.” The letter is available here and below: September 19, 2016 The Honorable Michael J. Missal Inspector General Department of Veterans Affairs 801 I Street, NW Washington, DC 20001 Dear Inspector General Missal: We write with a request that the Department of Veterans Affairs Office of Inspector General (VA OIG) open an inquiry into an apparently serious issue at the Eastern Colorado Health Care System, Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center in Denver, Colorado (Denver VAMC). We appreciate your prompt attention to this request. In early September 2016, our offices received information from a whistleblower connected with the Denver VAMC. The whistleblower expressed concern about the existence of “wait lists” involving patients at the Denver VAMC, as well as the Colorado Springs, Colorado, and Golden, Colorado, VA facilities. The whistleblower raised concerns about a specific situation in which a 26-year old Army Ranger committed suicide while waiting for Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) care from the Colorado Springs facility. This whistleblower believes the Colorado Springs facility may have falsified documents after the suicide. Shortly after the whistleblower contacted Senator Johnson’s office, Senator Johnson’s staff contacted VA Congressional Affairs and the Denver VAMC leadership to seek more information about these allegations. At this time, we understand that the VA is in the process of responding to this request. Further, we understand this whistleblower contacted the VA OIG around September 2, 2016. Senator Johnson’s staff also contacted the U.S. Office of Special Counsel (OSC), due to concern from the whistleblower of potential retaliatory actions by the Denver VAMC. We understand that the whistleblower has contacted OSC, and OSC is pursuing the case. Disturbingly, on September 13, the whistleblower received a VA Memorandum, demanding that the whistleblower’s appearance for a “Fact-Finding Interview” about “an alleged privacy violation.” In an effort to ensure the VA OIG is fully aware of these issues concerning the Denver VAMC, and based on the whistleblower’s agreement, our staffs are prepared to provide the VA OIG with information received from the whistleblower to allow the VA OIG to aggressively pursue this serious issue. Finally, we have heard concern from VA employees about their ability to speak with Congress due to the fear of retaliation. It should be clear that all VA employees have a right to speak with Congress. Specifically, federal law states: “The right of employees, individually or collectively, to petition Congress or a Member of Congress, or to furnish information to either House of Congress, or to a committee or Member thereof, may not be interfered or denied.” If the VA OIG finds during its inquiry any retaliation due to this whistleblower’s contact with Congress, we would request that you notify us promptly. We ask that you will open an inquiry into possible existence of wait lists at the Denver VAMC as well as related claims about document falsification and potential whistleblower retaliation. If you have any questions about this request, please ask your staff to contact Brian Downey or Kyle Brosnan of Chairman Johnson’s staff at (202) 224-4751 or Alison Toal of Senator Gardner’s office at (202) 224-5941. Thank you for your attention to this matter. ###
09.20.2016	09.20.16 Gardner Announces $51,000 Grant to Benefit Ute Mountain Ute Tribe Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today the Economic Development Administration (EDA) awarded the Ute Mountain Ute Tribe $51,000 to develop and implement a comprehensive economic development strategy for the Tribe’s region, which includes Montezuma County, Colorado. “I welcome the news the Ute Mountain Utes will receive a $51,000 Economic Development Administration (EDA) grant,” said Gardner. “This is an excellent example of the federal government working with tribal communities to enhance economic development. I’m pleased the EDA recognizes the important contributions of the Ute Mountain Ute Tribe and continues to support its efforts. I remain committed to advocating on behalf of Colorado’s tribes at the federal level and will work toward ensuring they receive the resources they deserve.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
09.19.2016	09.19.16 Gardner Statement on Recent Terror Attacks Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the below statement on the recent terror attacks in Minnesota, New York, and New Jersey: “The terrorist attacks in New York, New Jersey, and Minnesota are a reminder that our country is facing an ongoing threat and that there are people around the world – and right here in the United States – who wish to do us harm. I am praying for the victims’ speedy recovery, and want to thank all of our law enforcement officers and first responders who responded expediently to the attacks and apprehended the suspect in the New York and New Jersey bombings. We must remain vigilant as we work to tackle evolving challenges and united in our fight against a faceless enemy that knows no peace, only hatred and fear.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
09.16.2016	09.16.16 Gardner Pressures President Obama on North Korea Sanctions Implementation Calls for Immediate Secondary Sanctions on Chinese Entities Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity, along with several of his colleagues, sent a letter today to President Obama regarding North Korea’s latest nuclear weapons test, which was North Korea’s fourth nuclear test since 2009 and the second test this year. In the letter, the Senators expressed their concern that the Obama Administration has not imposed secondary sanctions, especially on Chinese-based entities, that provide assistance to North Korea, which Gardner’s North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act requires. They also asked the President a series of questions relating to the implementation of sanctions under the legislation. The Senators also call for a new UN Security Council Resolution that closes loopholes of previous resolutions; and expedited deployment of the Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) system in South Korea; and strengthening the trilateral alliance between the U.S., Japan, and South Korea. Senators John Boozman (R-AR), Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV), Tom Cotton (R-AR), Ted Cruz (R-TX), Steve Daines (R-MT), Deb Fischer (R-NE), Johnny Isakson (R-GA), Jerry Moran (R-KS), David Perdue (R-GA), James Risch (R-ID), Jeff Sessions (R-AL), Pat Roberts (R-KS), Mike Rounds (R-SD), Marco Rubio (R-FL), Ben Sasse (R-NE), Richard Shelby (R-AL), Dan Sullivan (R-AK), Roger Wicker (R-MS) also signed the letter. The letter reads in full: Dear Mr. President: We are gravely concerned with reports that North Korea has successfully conducted a fifth nuclear test. This is the regime’s second test this year and this is the largest weapon they have tested, with an estimated explosive yield of 10 kilotons of TNT. The rapid advancement of North Korea’s nuclear and ballistic missile program represents a grave threat to global peace and stability, and a direct threat to the U.S. homeland in the immediate future. In the wake of this latest provocation from Pyongyang, we ask you to take immediate steps to expand U.S. sanctions against North Korea and those entities that assist the regime, most importantly China-based entities; expedite the deployment of the Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) system in South Korea; and take all feasible steps to facilitate a stronger trilateral alliance between the United States, Japan, and South Korea to more effectively counter the North Korean threat. We also ask you to urgently pursue an additional United Nations Security Council Resolution (UNSCR) to impose additional multilateral sanctions against Pyongyang. This resolution must close loopholes of previous resolution, such as the “livelihood” exemption in UNSCR, which have allowed China to skirt faithful compliance with the letter and the spirit of such resolutions. On February 18, 2016, you signed into law the North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act of 2016 (P.L. 114-122), but your Administration’s implementation of this legislation has been disappointing. While we commend the designation of North Korea as a jurisdiction of “primary money laundering concern” and the designation of top North Korean officials, including Kim Jong Un, as human rights violators, these actions only scratch the surface of the sanctions authorities provided to you under the new law. First and foremost, you must begin to designate entities that are assisting the North Korean regime, especially those based in China -- the country with which North Korea currently conducts an estimated 90% of its trade and that has historically served as Pyongyang’s largest military and diplomatic protector. As you know, Section 102 of P.L. 114-122 mandates, not simply authorizes, investigations against all entities, no matter where they are based, “upon receipt by the President of credible information indicating that such person has engaged” in illicit conduct outlined in the legislation. As the Wall Street Journal wrote in an editorial on August 18, 2016: “The promise of secondary sanctions is that they can force foreign banks, trading companies and ports to choose between doing business with North Korea and doing business in dollars, which usually is an easy call... But this only works if the U.S. exercises its power and blacklists offending institutions, as Congress required in February’s North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act. The Obama Administration hasn’t done so even once.” As the Wall Street Journal further noted, for instance, the Administration has not acted on information from the United Nations Panel of Experts report in March 2016 that the Bank of China “allegedly helped a North Korea-linked client get $40 million in deceptive wire transfers through U.S. banks.” Moreover, there is ample evidence of increased North Korean efforts to evade sanctions with help from China-based entities. According to the New York Times report on September 9, 2016, “To evade sanctions, the North’s state-run trading companies opened offices in China, hired more capable Chinese middlemen, and paid higher fees to employ more sophisticated brokers, according to Jim Walsh and John Park, scholars at MIT and Harvard.” We respectfully ask you to immediately provide written answers to the following questions: Has the Administration received credible evidence that entities based in China are engaging in illicit activities outlined in P.L. 114-122? If so, what is the status of these investigations? Why have no Chinese-based entities been designated to date? Do you believe that China is in full compliance of UN Security Council Resolution 2270 and all preceding U.N. Security Council resolutions regarding North Korea? Please provide a detailed account of China’s compliance or non-compliance and what actions, if any, have been pursued at the U.N. for China’s non-compliance. Why has the Administration not designated any entities for malicious cyber-enabled activities, as required by Section 209 of P.L. 114-122? Does the Administration believe that the multilateral enforcement of UNSCR 2270 and its own enforcement of P.L. 114-122 has had a credible and measurable impact on North Korea’s regime ability to obtain luxury goods? Is North Korea’s state-owned Air Koryo airline involved in any activities outlined in Section 104 of P.L. 114-122 and if so, has the Administration initiated an investigation for the designation of Air Koryo under the law? If not, why not? What actions has the Administration taken to discourage the North Korean forced labor camps and trafficking of North Korean workers? Is the Administration pursuing any designations for entities that are assisting in “the operation and maintenance of political prison camps or forced labor camps, including outside of North Korea”, as required by Section 104(a)(8) of P.L. 114-122? If not, why not? Mr. President, we must send a strong message to Beijing that our patience has run out and exert any and all effort with Beijing to use its critical leverage to stop Pyongyang. As Secretary Ash Carter stated on September 9, following the latest nuclear test: “China shares important responsibility for this development and has an important responsibility to reverse it. It’s important that it use its location, its history and its influence to further the denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula and not the direction things have been going.” Thank you for your prompt attention to this letter and we hope to work closely with you to contain, and ultimately eliminate, the North Korean threat. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
09.15.2016	09.15.16 Gardner Announces $6.3 Million Grant for Gunnison-Crested Butte Regional Airport Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today announced Gunnison-Crested Butte Regional Airport will receive a $6,306,677 grant from the FAA for runway rehabilitation. “I’m pleased to announce the FAA has awarded the Gunnison-Crested Butte Regional Airport over $6.3 Million for runway rehabilitation,” said Gardner. “This airport serves several rural communities on the Western Slope and it's important the federal government recognizes the value of Colorado’s rural airports. I’ll continue to champion Colorado priorities at the federal level and ensure our rural communities have access to the appropriate resources.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
09.15.2016	09.15.16 Gardner Secures Commitment from FCC Chairman to Work to Resolve Southwest TV Issue Gardner to Convene Meeting in Durango with Interested Stakeholders Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), a member of the Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee, secured a commitment from Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Chairman Tom Wheeler to work with interested stakeholders to resolve the Four Corners TV issue at today’s Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation hearing. Gardner also announced he will hold a meeting between the Colorado Broadcasters Association, DISH, and Montezuma and La Plata County Commissioners to discuss ways to bring Colorado television to Southwest Colorado. Throughout his time in Congress, Gardner has worked diligently to bring Colorado television to Southwest Colorado. In 2014, Gardner fought alongside Congressman Scott Tipton (R-CO) to insert language in the Satellite Television Extension and Localism Act Reauthorization (STELAR) that advanced the process of getting Colorado TV to La Plata and Montezuma counties. Gardner also sent a letter urging the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to adopt a new rule allowing counties to petition for in-state TV signals and welcomed the decision when the new rule was announced in February. Watch the exchange here RUSH TRANSCRIPT SENATOR GARDNER: As we’ve discussed before, satellite TV subscribers in La Plata and Montezuma Counties in Southwestern Colorado, the Four Corners area, currently receive New Mexico-based broadcasts. In addition, geographic challenges unfortunately leave the vast majority of those viewers without access to over-the-air broadcast signals, obviously some significant mountains in-between Denver, the Front Range, and Durango, and I commend the work that the broadcasters and satellite providers, both broadcasters and satellite providers, continue to engage in as they work to deliver Colorado TV to all four corners of Colorado. Congress also worked to address this issue in the 2014 STELAR legislation by extending the market modification process to satellite TV. As they crafted the final rules to carry out this provision, I, along with Senator Bennet and others, urged the FCC to permit County Commissioners to petition for market modification and I thank you for adopting that option. In light of those rules, the Commissioners from both La Plata County and Montezuma County have expressed interest in moving forward with the market modification process. DISH has also indicated that providing Colorado television is not technically infeasible. The Colorado broadcasters recently sent both Senator Bennet and I a letter stating that they are willing to provide their content to DISH in the two counties. With this progress, I’m calling on the County Commissioners in Colorado, at this hearing, the broadcasters, and DISH together so that we can convene a meeting next month in Colorado to discuss ways we can reach a final resolution. I hope that Senator Bennet and Congressman Tipton will be able to join me in that meeting as well. We’ve got to get this finally solved. CHAIRMAN WHEELER: If we can help in that, we’d be happy to be at that meeting too. You tell me how we can be helpful. SENATOR GARDNER: Thank you, and I would just again reiterate that commitment, you’ve given it to me here and before, that the FCC will expeditiously review any market modification petition submitted by La Plata or Montezuma. I thank you very much for that. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
09.15.2016	09.15.16 Gardner’s Gold King Mine Spill Recovery Language Approved by Senate Washington, DC – The U.S. Senate today approved the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA), legislation that included language authored by Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) to address the response costs associated with the Gold King Mine spill and direct the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to work with affected states, Indian tribes, and local governments on a long-term water quality monitoring program of the rivers contaminated by the spill. Earlier this week, Gardner announced he led a group of bipartisan Senators in introducing an amendment to WRDA with Senators Tom Udall (D-NM), Michael Bennet (D-CO), Orrin Hatch (R-UT), Martin Heinrich (D-NM), and John McCain (R-AZ) on the Gold King Mine spill. Gardner worked to secure the amendment in legislative text which expedites the payments of response costs assumed by states, Indian tribes, and local governments. It also requires the EPA to pay for the response costs within 90 days if the costs are consistent with federal law. Lastly, the legislative language establishes a long-term water quality monitoring program and authorizes the EPA to reimburse the states, Indian tribes, and local governments for this monitoring activity. “It’s unacceptable that many Coloradans affected by the EPA’s reckless release of three million gallons of contaminated water into the Animas River are still waiting for reimbursement from the agency,” said Gardner. “What’s worse is that the EPA wanted to cut off reimbursements from response costs on October 31, 2015. I’m proud the Water Resources and Development Act included language that requires the EPA to expedite reimbursement for emergency response costs assumed by states, tribes, and local governments long after October 31st, and I will continue to fight to ensure individuals, private property owners, and small businesses are made whole from this EPA spill in addition to our state, tribes, and local governments. Today’s vote represents a positive step forward, but there’s more work to be done for Southwest Colorado and our downstream neighbors.” In addition to addressing the Gold King Mine spill recovery, Senator Gardner fought for language that would expand the U.S. Army Corp of Engineer’s water inspection program into the South Platte and Arkansas River basins to help prevent the spread of invasive species between water basins. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
09.14.2016	09.14.16 Gardner Announces $2.2 Million Grant for Grand Junction Regional Airport Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today Grand Junction Regional Airport will receive a $2,216,716 grant from the FAA to construct a new runway. “I welcome the news that Grand Junction Regional Airport will receive over $2.2 million from the FAA to construct a new runway,” said Gardner. “This airport serves as the gateway to the Western Slope and will benefit countless Coloradans and travelers who utilize this transportation hub. It’s important the FAA is supporting this project and I will continue to be a champion for Colorado at the federal level to ensure our local communities receive the resources they need.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
09.14.2016	09.14.16 Gardner Announces $150 Million Grant in Support of the DIA Commuter Train Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today the Denver Eagle Commuter Rail will receive a $150,000,000 grant from the Department of Transportation (DOT) as part of the Capital Investment Grant Program. In March, Gardner sent a letter to Senators Susan Collins (R-ME) and Jack Reed (D-RI), the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies (THUD) Appropriations Subcommittee respectively, urging them to continue to support the Eagle P3 Commuter Rail Transit Project in Denver. “I’m pleased the Department of Transportation has awarded the Regional Transportation District’s (RTD) Eagle P3 Commuter Rail Transit Project $150,000,000, and continues to support this important initiative,” said Gardner. “This grant is part of long-term funding in support of the DIA Commuter train along with rail links to Wheat Ridge and Westminster, allowing Coloradans to travel to and from the airport and surrounding communities from downtown Denver by rail. I will continue to advocate for this project at the federal level and ensure Colorado receives the necessary resources to ensure the project’s continued success.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
09.14.2016	09.14.16 Gardner Introduces Bill to Assist Democratic Transition and Spur Economic Development in Burma Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner, Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy, along with Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) today introduced the Empower Burma Act, legislation that aims to assist in Burma’s democratic transition by requiring the United States to lead a worldwide effort to assist in Burma’s economic development. The introduction of the legislation coincides with Nobel Peace Prize laureate Aung San Suu Kyi’s first official visit to Washington as Burma’s de-facto leader. In November 2015, Burma held an historic election that ushered in a democratic government after nearly 60 years of military rule. However, Burma faces significant challenges that the new democratic government must urgently address to solidify democratic gains in the country. Burma is currently one of the least developed countries in Southeast Asia – 25 percent of its residents live below the poverty line and only 30 percent have access to reliable electricity. The Empower Burma Act directs the Administration to produce a comprehensive, long-term strategy to promote sustainable economic development in Burma, including meeting Burma’s stated goal of universal access to electricity by 2030. The legislation also directs U.S. representatives of multilateral development agencies, including the World Bank and Asia Development Bank, to support and advocate for development projects in Burma. The legislation also supports extending to Burma U.S. Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) benefits as well as future Millennium Challenge Corporation (MCC) assistance, so long as Burma meets all relevant criteria for inclusion. Lastly, the legislation expresses that Congress must be closely consulted prior to lifting or amending any existing U.S. sanctions toward Burma. “After returning from Burma and meeting with Aung San Suu Kyi and her top advisors, it was clear to me that one of this government’s top priorities is providing immediate economic benefits to the Burmese people suffering decades of ruinous military rule. Nowhere is this more apparent than achieving increased access to electricity, which only a third of Burmese residents enjoy today,” said Gardner. “The Empower Burma Act aims to help to direct U.S. policy to help Burma tackle its many economic challenges during the democratic transition. The United States has an opportunity to lead, and this legislation represents action we can take now to deliver development and democracy – and the freedoms and opportunity that come with it - to the Burmese people.” “As a once-in-a-generation figure, Aung San Suu Kyi has courageously fought for decades to institute a more open, transparent, and fair democracy in Burma," said Senator Sullivan. "As she visits Washington this week, I am hopeful that the Empower Burma Act will help reaffirm the value that the U.S. places on its evolving partnership with Burma. It is also a critical signal to the Burmese people that they are not alone and that we stand ready to help them address some of the persistent issues that – as new democracy – they now face, such as an ongoing fight for peace, increased civilian control of the military, and improving crippling and widespread poverty.” Earlier this week, Gardner met with Scot Marciel, the U.S. Ambassador to Burma, to discuss the U.S. presence in Burma and how we can best assist in the democratic transition. In June, Gardner participated in a Congressional delegation visit to Burma and had the opportunity to meet with State Counselor and Minister of Foreign Affairs Aung San Suu Kyi, President Htin Kyaw, and Burma’s Commander-in-Chief, and Senior General Min Aung Hlaing. Gardner has been outspoken in encouraging Burma’s democratic transition and welcomed the swearing in of President Htin Kyaw as the first civilian president in more than 50 years. ###
09.12.2016	09.12.16 Gardner Announces $5.8 Million Grant for Telluride Regional Airport Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today Telluride Regional Airport will receive $5,855,095 from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to improve the airport’s runway safety area. “I’m pleased the FAA has awarded Telluride Regional Airport $5.8 million to improve runway safety,” said Gardner. “Our regional airports serve our local communities, and this funding will ensure Telluride Regional Airport is able to complete important safety upgrades. I’ll continue to be a voice for the Centennial state at the federal level and fight to ensure Colorado receives the resources it needs.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
09.12.2016	09.12.16 Bipartisan Group of Senators Introduce Measure to Expedite Gold King Mine Spill Recovery Washington, DC – Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Tom Udall (D-NM) along with Senators Michael Bennet (D-CO), Orrin Hatch (R-UT), Martin Heinrich (D-NM), and John McCain (R-AZ) today introduced an amendment to the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) to address the response costs associated with the Gold King Mine spill, and direct the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to work with affected States, Indian tribes, and local governments on a long-term water quality monitoring program of the rivers contaminated by the spill. The Gold King Mine spill occurred on August 5, 2015 and resulted in the EPA’s release of three million gallons of contaminated water into the Cement Creek, affecting waterways in Colorado, New Mexico, Utah, the Southern Ute reservation, and the Navajo Nation. The bipartisan amendment expedites the reimbursement of emergency response costs assumed by States, Indian tribes, local governments, and individuals following the spill, and is intended to include costs that did not conclude by October 31, 2015. The EPA has stated the agency will not reimburse response costs after this date apart from limited exceptions. Additionally, the amendment requires the EPA to pay out all costs eligible for reimbursement unless the agency proves with substantial evidence that the cost is not consistent with what is typically reimbursed under federal law. The measure also requires the EPA to pay out all claims within 90 days and notify parties as to whether or not it will pay the claim within 30 days of reaching its decision. Lastly, the amendment establishes a water quality monitoring program and authorizes the EPA to reimburse the States, Indian tribes, and local governments for this monitoring activity. “The EPA is responsible for the Gold King Mine spill, and therefore I’ll fight to hold the agency fully liable and to the same standard as a private company,” said Gardner. “It is unacceptable the EPA has not fully reimbursed all costs associated with the spill and that’s why I authored an amendment to the Water Resources Development Act that requires the EPA to expeditiously pay out all States, tribes, and individuals for emergency action in response to the spill. Furthermore, the EPA must work in coordination and pay for long-term water quality monitoring, and this measure makes sure of it. I’m proud to lead a bipartisan group of Senators, whose constituents have also been affected, in demanding accountability and transparency from the EPA and fighting to ensure all outstanding costs are addressed.” "The Navajo Nation and many others in the Northwestern corner of New Mexico were devastated by the Gold King Mine spill over a year ago, and this bipartisan measure will help repair some of the many mistakes that have been made since then. Although the EPA has publicly taken responsibility, it has not done enough to make things right. Reimbursements for response costs to Tribal and state governments have taken far too long, and the state and federal government have struggled to set up and fund transparent, long term monitoring of the rivers to avoid a future public health crisis," Udall said. "This amendment requires the EPA to begin the process of reimbursing the Navajo Nation and the state of New Mexico. It also takes important steps to help rebuild confidence in the quality of the water in the San Juan and Animas rivers through longterm monitoring. But this is just a beginning — many Navajo farmers and others across the region have not seen a dime to compensate them for their losses. More needs to be done to compensate individuals for the damages they suffered, and I will continue fighting to ensure everyone impacted by the spill gets the help they need." “It’s been more than a year since the Gold King Mine spill and it’s unacceptable that the EPA still hasn’t fully reimbursed Colorado communities for their costs. We’ve been pushing the EPA to fulfill their long overdue commitment to the State, Indian tribes, and local governments who responded quickly to the spill,” Bennet said. “The communities in southwest Colorado paid out of their own pockets to maintain drinking water, provide for extra staffing costs, keep the public updated, provide water for irrigation, and monitor water quality. This amendment ensures that the EPA fully reimburses these communities and works collaboratively to institute a robust long-term water quality monitoring plan.” “Last year the EPA inadvertently spilled millions of gallons of waste into the Animas River in Colorado, exposing the local environment to toxic heavy metals. This spill had a significant adverse impact on many downstream communities and businesses throughout multiple Western states—including Utah. This legislation, if enacted, will instruct the EPA to reimburse states and tribes for related costs they incurred and hold EPA accountable for this spill,” said Hatch. Heinrich added, "It's been over a year and families are still recovering from of the Gold King Mine spill. The pace of reimbursement to those impacted by this terrible incident is unacceptable. This measure ensures that state, local, and tribal governments will be fully reimbursed for their emergency response costs and establishes a long-term water quality monitoring program in cooperation with local stakeholders. We must also take action to reform outdated policies in order to clean up the hundreds of thousands of similarly contaminated mines across the West and Indian Country that are leaking toxins into our watersheds. And we shouldn’t wait for more disasters to strike. Western communities deserve full and complete protection of their water, land, and livelihoods. Our nation owes it to these communities to clean up these sites once and for all."? “There’s no question as to the EPA’s responsibility for the Gold King Mine disaster, which has devastated lands and livelihoods across Indian Country,” said McCain. “The Navajo Nation and other tribes should not be left on the hook to pay for the EPA’s failure. This amendment would ensure that impacted states and tribes are quickly and fully reimbursed for all damages and emergency response activities connected to the Gold King Mine spill, while building a water quality and sediment monitoring system they need to protect all citizens. Most importantly, this amendment sends an important message from the United States Congress that the EPA should be held fully accountable for this disaster.” ###
09.09.2016	09.09.16 Gardner Marks 15th Anniversary of September 11th Attacks Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statement in advance of the 15th anniversary of the September 11th, 2001 terrorist attacks. “Today, we mourn those who lost their lives fifteen years ago on September 11, 2001. We also commemorate the countless first responders who made the ultimate sacrifice to help others – true American heroes,” said Gardner. “While we still live in a world where terror organizations seek to instill fear in the West, we as Americans stand united as we continue to spread the unalienable rights that make this country so great: life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. As we honor the victims of the horrific attacks that stunned all of us 15 years ago today, let us also remember that we owe our peace, safety, and the ability to achieve the American dream to the men and women who serve in our military and defend our freedoms so valiantly.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
09.08.2016	09.08.16 Gardner Reacts to Reports of North Korea Nuclear Test Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity, today released the below statement following reports that North Korea test fired a nuclear weapon. “News reports indicate that North Korea tested a nuclear weapon, its fifth nuclear weapons test overall and fourth since President Obama took office,” said Gardner. “North Korea’s reckless leader, Kim Jong Un, continues to test nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles, which poses a major threat to the United States and our allies around the world. North Korea's belligerent behavior must be stopped; it’s imperative we drastically increase sanctions enforcement that my North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act called for, including secondary sanctions against Chinese entities, additional sanctions on the regime’s human rights abuses, and cyber sanctions that the Obama Administration has still not imposed. “As North Korea’s nuclear arsenal and ballistic missile capabilities rapidly develop, we must work closely with our allies to counter this aggression by expediting the timeframe for the stationing of the Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) system in South Korea, and also enhance the trilateral alliance between the United States, Japan, and South Korea. President Obama should immediately convene a trilateral summit to discuss the urgency of the North Korean threat and agree on policies that will protect our nations and together effectively deter Pyongyang's aggression. While the Administration has finally recognized its policy of ‘strategic patience’ has failed, we must continue to ratchet up pressure on Kim Jong Un’s regime and pursue all available options to counter this growing aggression.” Gardner introduced the North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act (NKSPEA), legislation that imposes mandatory sanctions on individuals who contribute to North Korea’s nuclear program, proliferation activities, malicious cyberattacks, and human rights abuses. The NKSPEA was signed into law by President Obama in February of 2016, and the Administration began implementing the legislation in March with the enactment of additional sanctions. In June, Treasury designated North Korea as a “primary money laundering concern,” a move that further isolates North Korea from the international financial system by prohibiting all direct and indirect contact of North Korea-linked entities with the U.S. financial system. Most recently, North Korean leader Kim Jong Un, top North Korean officials, and 10 individuals and several entities tied to the regime were designated as notorious human rights abusers as required by Gardner’s bill. The designation marks the first ever human rights sanctions imposed on North Korea and corresponds with the release of the State Department’s report identifying severe human rights abusers, which was also required by the NKSPEA. Gardner was an outspoken advocate of strengthening missile defense capabilities in South Korea to protect the 28,500 American servicemen and women stationed in South Korea, our allies, and Americans abroad. In May, Gardner introduced an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act that expressed support for the deployment of THAAD to complement and significantly bolster existing missile defense technology. In June, Gardner visited South Korea and met with Defense Minister Han Min Koo, National Security Advisor Kim Kwan-jin, and Vice Minister of Foreign Affairs Lim as well as Commander of United States Forces Korea (USFK), General Vincent Brooks. They discussed a mutual concern for North Korea’s ballistic missile tests and the important role of THAAD in strengthening defense against the regime’s aggression. Additionally, Gardner met with South Korean President Park Geun-hye and discussed security challenges last year. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
09.08.2016	09.08.16 Gardner Announces $6.9 Million Grant for Eagle County Airport Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today Eagle County Airport will receive $6,950,000 from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) for infrastructure improvements. “I’m pleased the FAA has awarded Eagle County Airport $6.9 million for infrastructure improvements,” said Gardner. “This airport plays a critical role in Colorado’s mountain tourism industry, and this funding will assist in completing necessary infrastructure upgrades. I’ll continue to advocate on behalf of our state, county, and local governments, and make sure Colorado receives the necessary resources from the federal government.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
09.08.2016	09.08.16 Gardner Urges EPA, CDC to Register Potential Insect Repellents to Fight Zika Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner sent a letter to Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Gina McCarthy urging the EPA’s continued collaboration with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to register various chemicals that could potentially serve as insect repellents and sprays used to fight the Zika virus. The EPA must evaluate all repellents and pesticides for safety and efficacy prior to public use. Many labs throughout the country are researching new compounds that have shown promise for controlling mosquitos. For example, the CDC lab in Fort Collins, CO has conducted research on Nootkatone, a natural chemical found in grapefruit, that has proven to be an effective repellent and insecticide against mosquitos carrying the Zika virus. “Prior to September, the Zika virus had infected more than 600 pregnant women in the United States, and there has been more recent evidence that the virus continues to be transmitted within our boarders,” said Gardner. “In addition to supporting the $1 billion in funding to address this public health emergency, I urge EPA to work expeditiously with the relevant agencies to strengthen protection against the Zika virus through the approval of safe, effective insect repellents.” Gardner has voted three times in support of $1 billion in funding to combat the Zika virus. A partisan minority in the Senate, however, has blocked the advancement of the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, the vehicle for the Zika funding. Previously, the legislation was approved with bipartisan support. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
09.07.2016	09.07.16 Gardner Introduces Legislation to Prohibit Ransom Payments to Iran Reacts to Obama Administration’s Misguided Decision to Pay an Additional $1.3 Billion Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) introduced the No Ransom Payments Act authored by Senator Marco Rubio (R-FL). If enacted, this legislation will prohibit the United States Treasury Department from using the Judgment Fund, which was established to pay money owed by the U.S. government, to make any payments to Iran until Iran returns the ransom payment it received and compensates American victims of Iranian terrorism. Furthermore, it prohibits the United States from making ransom payments to any country. As a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Gardner has been a vocal opponent of the President’s deal with Iran. Before the deal was reached, Gardner warned about the dangers of a nuclear Iran, and denounced the deal. After reports of Iranian violations of U.N. sanctions, Gardner sent a letter to President Obama asking for a response to Iran’s violations. On the floor of the Senate, Gardner spoke out about the troubling aspects of the deal and urged his colleagues to reject it. In October, Gardner asked Secretary Kerry whether the Administration believed Iranian ballistic missile launches violated a U.N. ban, and in December, Gardner urged action against Iran for its repeated violations of ballistic missile test bans. Most recently, Gardner called on the Administration to explain reports that the United States agreed in secret to grant Iran exemptions and create a loophole to solidify the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) ahead of its deadline. “When the Obama Administration chose to deliver $400 million in an unmarked plane to Iran in exchange for the release of American hostages, they put Americans around the world at risk,” said Gardner. “Now we’ve learned the Administration went even further and made two more payments totaling an additional $1.3 billion to the Mullahs. Although President Obama continues to deny this was a ransom payment, the American people know better. I introduced the No Ransom Payments Act to ensure Iran receives no more money from the United States until the ransom payment is returned and American victims of Iranian terrorism are properly compensated. The Obama Administration has demonstrated time and time again that it is willing to do anything - including setting a dangerous precedent - to solidify its reckless nuclear deal with Iran. I will continue to hold the Administration accountable and press for the transparency Americans reserve.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
09.06.2016	09.06.16 Gardner Votes to Support Our National Defense, Veterans, and Zika Fight Partisan Minority Blocks Funding Bills For A Third Time Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner today released the below statement after a partisan minority blocked the advancement of the Department of Defense (DoD) Appropriations Act, which funds the DoD and the fight against ISIS, as well as the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, which funds construction projects to house military personnel and their families, improve military base infrastructure, and veterans’ benefits. Also, the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs appropriations bill includes funding to combat the Zika virus. Both appropriations bills previously passed the Senate with bipartisan support. “For the third time this year, a partisan minority blocked important appropriations bills from advancing, even though these funding packages previously passed the Senate with broad bipartisan support,” said Gardner. “With adversaries like North Korea and Iran that continue to pose a threat to our interests at home and abroad, it’s more important now than ever that we equip our military with the resources it needs to keep us safe. The bills blocked today also provide funding to improve military housing for our service members and ensures our veterans receive the benefits they deserve. “I also voted to approve more than $1 billion to combat the Zika virus,” Gardner added. “While a partisan minority continues to call for Zika funding in the press, they chose to block this measure from moving forward today for the third time this year. It is a glaring example of the political machine at its worst: the very people who are demanding the passage of Zika funding are its only obstacle to approval. It is time to put politics aside and approve these critical funding packages.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
09.01.2016	09.01.16 Gardner Statement on Secret Iran Deal Exemptions Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released a statement following reports that the United States agreed “in secret” to grant Iran exemptions and create a loophole to solidify the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) ahead of its deadline. According to a report released by the Institute for Science and International Security, the exemptions would allow Iran to exceed the agreement’s cap on the amount of uranium Iran is allow to possess at its nuclear plants. The report concluded “the Administration’s policy to maintain secrecy interferes in the process of establishing adequate Congressional and public oversight of the JCPOA.” “This is yet another example of the Administration’s false choice it presented to the American people in selling the flawed Iranian deal that provides the Mullahs a patient pathway to the bomb,” said Gardner. “The American public deserves answers from the Administration, and I expect the State Department to release all relevant materials and to fully explain these allegations.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
08.29.2016	08.29.16 Gardner Announces FAA Grants for Rural Colorado Airports Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today Montrose Regional Airport and Colorado Plains Regional Airport in Akron will receive grants from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). According to a release from the Department of Transportation, Montrose Regional Airport will receive $224,349 to “fund the acquisition of 3.68 acres of land to enable the airport to control land use within the runway protection zone for Runway 13,” and the Colorado Plains Regional Airport will receive $120,000 to “fund a new vertical/visual guidance system, precision approach pathway indicator, on Runway 11 to make the airport more accessible by improving approaches to the runway end.” “I’m pleased the FAA has awarded grants to two rural Colorado airports,” said Gardner. “These funds will be used for important airport upgrades and will benefit the communities these airports serve. I’ll continue to advocate for all Coloradans at the federal level and ensure our localities receive the necessary resources to best serve their communities.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
08.26.2016	08.26.16 Gardner Announces $7.6 Million for CO Division of Fire Prevention & Control Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has awarded the Colorado Division of Fire Prevention and Control $7,666,043 for its response to two fires. According to FEMA, the funds are “for fire suppression efforts taken as a result of FEMA-FM-5030-CO (East Peak Fire) and FEMA-FM-5031-CO (West Fork Fire Complex), and is authorized under Section 420 of the Robert T. Stafford Act.” “I’m pleased FEMA is reimbursing Colorado for its efforts in combatting the East Peak Fire and the West Fork Fire Complex in 2013,” said Gardner. “The Colorado Division of Fire Prevention and Control responded to these wildfires and used its own resources to protect Coloradans and mitigate destruction. It’s important the federal government recognizes these efforts, and that’s why I’ll continue to fight to ensure our state receives the resources it needs.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
08.24.2016	08.24.16 Gardner Announces $5 Million Grant for Greeley-Weld County Airport Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today the Greeley-Weld County Airport will receive a $5,863,182 grant from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) for runway rehabilitation. “I’m pleased the Greeley-Weld County Airport will receive over $5 million for infrastructure improvements,” said Gardner. “It’s important the federal government provides the necessary resources to our local governments so they can best serve our communities, and I will continue to advocate for Coloradans at the federal level to ensure these communities receive the support they need.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
08.15.2016	08.15.16 Gardner Concludes Second Annual Colorado Farm Tour Gardner Traveled over 1,600 Miles, Made 31 Different Stops, and Visited 27 Counties Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) concluded his Second Annual Colorado Farm Tour – meeting with local farm bureaus, traveling over 1,600 miles, making more than 30 stops, and visiting 27 counties. Gardner kicked off the tour last week on the Western Slop stopping first in Craig to visit with Moffat County producers. He then headed south to Meeker where he attended a community breakfast with Rio Blanco area farmers and ranchers, and Garfield County where he stopped in New Castle to tour the Roberts’ family sheep farm. In Mesa County, Gardner visited Talbott Farms in the “Peach Capital of Colorado,” Palisade. Next, he toured Bray Ranches, a cattle and sheep ranch in San Miguel County before heading to Dolores County where he stopped at a bean farm in Dove Creek, and toured a local honey bee farm in Cortez. Gardner visited a livestock ranch in Pagosa Springs and concluded the Western Slope portion of his Farm Tour at Jack Gilleland Farms in La Jara. Last week, Gardner continued his tour on the Eastern Plains with a breakfast roundtable with the Washington County producers in Otis. In Fort Morgan, he toured Scott Aviation and the Colorado Agricultural Aviation Association before heading to lunch with producers in and around Logan County in Sterling. Next, Gardner toured D&L Meat Company in Julesburg, met with Phillips County area farmers in Holyoke, and attended the Yuma County Livestock Sale in his hometown of Yuma. In Burlington, he met with producers from the Kit Carson area, attended the Lincoln County Fair in Hugo, and spoke with Cheyenne County Farm Bureau in Kit Carson. As Gardner continued his tour of the Eastern Plains, he stopped at the Dryland Milo farm in Eads, visited a family-run farm implement dealership, H. Manning Implement Company, in Lamar, met with Baca County producers in Springfield, Las Animas County farmers in Trinidad, and members from the Costilla County farming community in Blanca. Gardner then toured Colorado State University’s (CSU) San Luis Valley Research Center in Monte Vista, attended the Huerfano County Fair in Walsenburg, and visited with Otero County producers at CSU’s Arkansas Valley Research Center in Rocky Ford. On the final day of his Farm Tour, Gardner met with the Bent and Crowley County farming communities, stopped at the Rocky Ford Farmer’s Market, visited Harry Vold Rodeo Company in Avondale, and toured the Correctional Industries Agricultural and Farming programs in Cañon City. “Over the course of the past two weeks, I have traveled across the Western Slope and Eastern Plains as part of my Second Annual Colorado Farm Tour,” said Gardner. “The annual Farm Tour is a great opportunity to meet with Colorado’s farmers and ranchers and discuss how Washington-born policy impacts their daily operations. Throughout the tour, Coloradans continued to voice their concerns about Washington’s one-size-fits-all approach to regulation and its economic impact. I will continue to be a champion in Washington for our farmers and ranchers across the Centennial state.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
08.11.2016	08.11.16 Gardner Announces $3.7 Million Grant for Denver International Airport Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today that Denver International Airport will receive a $3,731,487 grant from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to rehabilitate taxiway lighting. “I’m pleased to announce Denver International Airport has been awarded over $3.7 million for infrastructure upgrades,” said Gardner. “DIA services millions of passengers every year and serves as a gateway to Colorado and the West, and it is important the federal government provides the necessary resources. I will continue to advocate for Colorado at the federal level and ensure our state and local communities receive the support they deserve.” According to a release from the United States Department of Transportation, this grant will: • Provide federal funding for the Denver International Airport in Colorado. • Will fund the full rehabilitation of approximately 24,000 feet of the concourse area taxiway lighting system that has reached the end of its useful life and requires rehabilitation to enhance safety airfield operations during low visibility conditions. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
08.09.2016	08.09.16 Gardner Announces $2.2 Million for CO Division of Fire Prevention & Control Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has awarded the Colorado Division of Fire Prevention and Control $2,203,499.96. According to FEMA, the funds are “for fire suppression efforts taken as a result of FEMA-FM-5027-CO (Colorado Black Forest Fire), and is authorized under Section 420 of the Robert T Stafford Act.” "I'm pleased FEMA is reimbursing Colorado for the their response to the Colorado Black Forest Fire that occurred in 2013,” Gardner said. “This was a major disaster that affected countless Coloradans. It's important the federal government recognizes the essential role the Colorado Department of Fire Prevention and Control took in responding to this disaster. I will continue to ensure our local communities receive the necessary support they deserve from the federal government." ###
08.08.2016	08.08.16 Gardner Continues Colorado Farm Tour on the Eastern Plains Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statement following another successful day on his Second Annual Colorado Farm Tour. Last week, Gardner traveled the Western Slope and visited Craig, Meeker, New Castle, Palisade, Norwood, Dove Creek, Cortez, Pagosa Springs, and La Jara where he toured nine different farms and ranches. This week, Gardner continues his Farm Tour on the Eastern Plains. Today, he stopped in Otis, Sterling, Julesburg, Holyoke, and Yuma, and will visit Burlington, Hugo, Kit Carson, Eads, Trinidad, Blanca, Monte Vista, Walsenburg, Rocky Ford, Las Animas, Ordway, Pueblo, and Cañon City in the coming days. “I continued my Second Annual Colorado Farm Tour on the Eastern Plains with stops in Otis, Sterling, Julesburg, Holyoke, and Yuma today,” said Gardner. "Growing up in Yuma and working at my family’s farm implement dealership, I developed an understanding of how agriculture is a way of life for so many Coloradans. Farms and ranches across the Centennial state play a major role in Colorado’s economy, and that's why I value the opportunity to meet with Colorado’s farmers and ranchers to discuss how Washington-born policies affect their businesses. I look forward to traveling around the Eastern Plains and stopping in Burlington, Hugo, Kit Carson, Eads, Trinidad, Blanca, Monte Vista, Walsenburg, Rocky Ford, Las Animas, Ordway, Pueblo, and Cañon City in the days ahead." ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
08.05.2016	08.05.16 Gardner Reacts to Gold King Mine Spill Anniversary, Announces EPA Reimbursements State, Local, and Tribal Responders to Receive $452,000 Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statement marking the one year anniversary of the Gold King Mine spill and announced the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is awarding $161,000 to Colorado, $106,000 to the Southern Ute Indian Tribe, $99,000 to La Plata County, $43,000 to San Juan County, and $43,000 to the City of Durango for costs related to response efforts following the spill: “One year ago today, the EPA released three million gallons of contaminated water into the Animas River, devastating the local communities impacted by the spill,” said Gardner. “While I have many outstanding questions for the EPA surrounding its insufficient and untimely response, I look forward to them being addressed in the Inspector General’s report as well as the criminal investigation. In the meantime, I will continue to fight for the transparency and accountability that Coloradans expect and deserve, and that includes making sure all individuals, businesses, and localities are wholly compensated. I’m pleased to announce today that the EPA is reimbursing state, local, and tribal officials $710,000. While overdue, it’s a positive step in the right direction and I urge the EPA to act expeditiously moving forward to address all outstanding claims.” Background: Gardner introduced legislation titled the Gold King Accountability and Compensation for Taxpayers (Gold King ACT), a fiscally responsible bill that requires the EPA to fully and expeditiously compensate all communities impacted by the Gold King Mine spill. In May, Gardner toured EPA’s water treatment facility in Gladstone, CO. The tour followed a letter Gardner sent to the EPA urging additional funding for water quality monitoring, and later welcomed the news that EPA committed to providing $600,000 in additional funding to support spring runoff as well as real-time monitoring efforts. Gardner released a discussion draft of legislation designed to allow Good Samaritans, such as the mining industry, state agencies, local governments, nonprofits, and other groups, the opportunity to clean up the environment and improve water quality in and around orphan mines. A legislative hearing on the draft took place in the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works in March. Gardner continues to work toward introduction of the legislation. In October, Gardner chaired a Senate Small Business Committee hearing that was called to assess the impact of the Gold King Mine spill on local communities and businesses. In September, Gardner testified at a Senate Environment and Public Works Committee hearing and participated in an Indian Affairs Committee hearing to discuss the EPA’s unacceptable response and recovery efforts following the Gold King Mine spill. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
04.04.2017	04.04.17 Gardner Statement on North Korea Missile Launch Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the below statement following reports that North Korea tested another ballistic missile. “North Korea’s latest ballistic missile test is yet another reminder to the United States, China, and the international community, that we need to take every measure to stop the madman in Pyongyang, and we must do so now,” said Gardner. “President Trump must tell President Xi this week that the policy of ‘strategic patience’ is now over and China must choose to either do its part to stop Kim Jong Un, or face the consequences. The United States must respond to this belligerent behavior by sanctioning all entities that are aiding North Korea’s illicit activities, including imposing secondary sanctions on any Chinese entities involved. “My North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act provides the Administration the necessary tools to further increase pressure on the North Korean regime and I urge President Trump to utilize this legislation to further isolate Pyongyang. We must also stand with our allies Japan and South Korea to counter Kim Jong Un’s increasingly belligerent behavior and prove to the world the United States will no longer lead from behind, but instead lead the effort to stop this grave threat.” Last week, Gardner, along with Senator Ed Markey (D-MA), sent a letter to Secretary of State Rex Tillerson and Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin calling for full enforcement of United States and United Nations sanctions on North Korea. As Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy, Gardner led the effort to impose broad new sanctions against North Korea by authoring the North Korea Sanctions Policy and Enhancement Act. Signed into law by President Obama in February of 2016, the legislation marked the first time Congress imposed stand-alone mandatory sanctions on North Korea. ###
08.02.2016	08.02.16 Gardner Begins Second Annual Colorado Farm Tour Washington, DC – Today, Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) began his annual Colorado Farm Tour on the Western Slope. On the first day of his Colorado Farm Tour, Gardner visited farms in Meeker, New Castle, Palisade, Norwood, Dove Creek, and Cortez. Gardner kicked off the tour last night in Craig with the Moffat County Farm Bureau. Today, he began the day in Meeker where he attended a community breakfast with the Rio Blanco Farm Bureau. He then headed to Garfield County where he stopped in New Castle to tour the Roberts’ family sheep farm. In Mesa County, Gardner visited Talbott Farms in the “Peach Capital of Colorado,” Palisade. Next, he toured Bray Ranches, a cattle and sheep ranch in San Miguel County before heading to Dolores County where he stopped at a bean farm in Dove Creek. Gardner ended day one of his Colorado Farm Tour at a local honey bee farm in Cortez. Tomorrow, he will make stops in Pagosa Springs and La Jara. “Farms and ranches across the Western Slope play an important role in Colorado’s economy, and are at the heart and soul of the Centennial State,” said Gardner. “Our state is fortunate to have over 36,000 farms that produce a wide range of agricultural products, and I look forward to continuing my annual Colorado Farm Tour over the next few days to discuss agriculture priorities with Coloradans and learn more about how policy born in Washington impacts them.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
07.26.2016	07.26.16 Gardner Announces $15 Million TIGER Grant for North I-25 Expansion Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today announced the Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT) has been awarded a $15 million Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) grant from the United States Department of Transportation (DOT) to improve a 14-mile stretch of North I-25 between Loveland and Fort Collins, Colorado. In April, Gardner, along with members of the Colorado delegation, sent a letter to Department of Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx in support of Colorado’s grant application. “I’m thrilled the Colorado Department of Transportation will receive much-needed funding for the North I-25 project,” said Gardner. “This $15 million grant is a significant step toward expanding the roadway for the many Coloradans who rely on it every day. I was honored to join several local officials, businesses, and community leaders in support of the grant, and I’m pleased the United States Department of Transportation recognized how important this project is to the people of the Centennial state.” Shailen Bhatt, Executive Director of CDOT, added, "We appreciate the work of our Federal and local community partners to make this a reality. With this TIGER funding, CDOT will be able to complete the improvements to this segment of the North I-25 corridor, a vital part of our state's economic development." ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
07.20.2016	07.20.16 Gardner Announces $3.3 Million Grant for Grand Junction Airport Sterling, Wray, Holyoke Also Receive Grant Money Washington, DC– Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today that Grand Junction Regional Airport, along with several other Colorado airports, will receive Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) grants. Grand Junction Regional Airport will receive $3,300,000 to rehabilitate the East Terminal Apron; Sterling airport will receive $118,755; Wray Municipal Airport will receive $237,510 for airport improvements; and Holyoke Airport will receive $342,430 for taxiway construction. “I’m pleased Grand Junction, along with several airports across the Eastern Plains, will receive FAA grants,” said Gardner. “Grand Junction will use the $3.3 million to finish the East Terminal Apron rehabilitation project, which will benefit all Coloradans who utilize this transportation hub on the Western Slope. Several airports across the Eastern Plains will also benefit from grants that will allow them to continue to best serve Colorado’s rural communities. I will remain a champion for Colorado at the federal level and ensure local communities throughout the Centennial state receive the resources they need.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
07.15.2016	07.15.16 Gardner Introduces Rural Economic Development Bill Legislation Extends Tax Credits to Rural Communities, Addresses Overregulation Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) introduced the Rebuilding and Renewing Rural America Act, a broad legislative package that extends tax credits to rural communities and addresses excessive government regulation that affects rural America. The legislation is the product of more than 12 roundtables, which were attended by local officials and business owners, that Gardner organized in rural communities throughout Colorado to gather feedback on how to best address their challenges. “The cranes in Denver present a stark contrast to the store fronts on Main Street in rural towns throughout Colorado. Growing up on the Eastern Plains in Yuma, I know firsthand the challenges small communities face when it comes to not only attracting new businesses and investment, but also retaining residents,” said Gardner. The Rebuilding and Renewing Rural America Act is a two-pronged approach to strengthening rural communities: it contains several provisions to make it easier for local businesses to start and succeed, while also aiming to scale back excessive government regulations. The bill includes language from the Philanthropic Facilitation Act, bipartisan legislation Gardner introduced to reform the approval process for charitable investments so philanthropic organizations can more easily invest in community improvement and job creation, boosting economic growth in both rural and urban areas. The legislation also creates a Renewing Rural America credit designed specifically for rural communities, which will help increase capital flows to some of our most underdeveloped economies. Also established is the Rebuilding Rural Main Street tax credit that can be used to help eliminate environmental hazards like lead and asbestos from aging small town buildings. In addition to incentives for rural revitalization, the Rebuilding and Renewing Rural America Act contains tax credits for rural job creators in the form of reduced payroll taxes and full and immediate expensing of Section 179 property. This legislation also creates a tax-preferred start-up savings account which is designed to allow entrepreneurs to save money to start small businesses in rural communities. Lastly, the Rebuilding and Renewing Rural America Act includes language from the Reducing Excessive Government Act, a bill Gardner previously introduced to require any increase in the debt limit be accompanied by a proportional reduction in regulatory burden. This adapted provision requires the identification and reduction of at least 10 percent of the regulatory cost being faced by rural America. Gardner added, “Throughout my time in Congress, I have hosted numerous roundtables in rural Colorado to meet with local officials and business owners to gather feedback on how to best revitalize rural America. The Rebuilding and Renewing Rural America Act is the product of many conversations with Coloradans from across the state, and makes it easier for small businesses to succeed by boosting investment and extending tax credits. The legislation also addresses Washington’s heavy hand and the cost of its excessive regulations by reducing the regulatory burden on rural America. The Rebuilding and Renewing Rural America Act is a positive step toward jumpstarting rural economic development, and I look forward to continuing to work with local communities to incite growth and encourage our job creators to invest in small communities in Colorado and throughout the country.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
07.14.2016	07.14.16 Gardner Votes to Fund DoD, Military Construction, VA Benefits, and Zika Response Partisan Minority Blocks Legislation from Advancing Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statement after a partisan minority blocked the advancement of the Department of Defense (DoD) Appropriations Act, which funds the DoD and the fight against ISIS, as well as the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, which funds construction projects to house military personnel and their families, improve military base infrastructure, and veterans’ benefits. The Military Construction and Veterans Affairs appropriations bill also includes funding to combat the Zika virus. Both appropriations bills previously passed the Senate with bipartisan support. “I’m disappointed a partisan minority in the Senate blocked these important appropriations bills, which previously passed with bipartisan support, from advancing. I supported these bills because they equip our military to fight ISIS, and support our troops and veterans by improving military housing for service members and their families and also ensuring that those who serve our country so selflessly receive the benefits they’ve earned. The legislation also contains more than $1 billion in funding to tackle the threat of the Zika virus,” said Gardner. “The American people expect action – especially when it comes to our military and addressing a public health emergency – not partisan political games.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
07.14.2016	07.14.16 Senate Approves Resolution Celebrating Colorado’s 140th Anniversary Washington, DC – The U.S. Senate approved a resolution, introduced by Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), celebrating Colorado’s 140th anniversary. The resolution recognizes the many different facets of Colorado, including the more than 36,000 farms, 58 fourteeners, four National Parks, and countless world class ski resorts. “Colorado is steeped in rich history and traditions that extend back 140 years to the founding of our state,” said Gardner. “Coloradans are proud of the state’s four national parks, 58 fourteeners, tens of thousands of farms and ranches, several state of the art technological facilities in renewable energy and aerospace, and countless businesses that call Colorado home. There is no greater honor than representing the people of the Centennial State and I join the millions of Coloradans in celebrating the state’s 140th anniversary this August.” A full text of the resolution can be found here. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
07.14.2016	07.14.16 Gardner, Hatch Request Hearing on Gold King Mine Accountability Legislation Washington, DC – Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Orrin Hatch (R-UT) today sent a letter to Senators Chuck Grassley (R-IA) and Patrick Leahy (D-VT) requesting a hearing on the Gold King Accountability and Compensation for Taxpayers (ACT), legislation they introduced in May following reports that Colorado counties were not being fully reimbursed for the costs associated with the Gold King Mine spill, which occurred on August 5, 2015 after the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) released millions of gallons of wastewater into the Animas River. Gardner has repeatedly called on the federal government to provide the necessary resources to Colorado communities affected by this EPA-born disaster. Nearing the 1-year anniversary of the Gold King Mine spill it is important to note the EPA has not made a single payment to those harmed by the spill under the Federal Tort Claims Act, or fully reimbursed counties, local governments, and tribes for emergency response costs incurred as a result of the Gold King Mine spill. It is unacceptable that the EPA has resumed its work on the Gold King site, but has yet to live up to its promise to take full responsibility for the spill. In the letter, the Senators stated, “The Gold King ACT is a fiscally responsible bill that would direct the EPA to fully and expeditiously compensate communities impacted by this preventable, man-made environmental disaster. Currently, there are more than 60 federal tort claims relating to the Gold King Mine spill upon which the EPA has yet to act. This legislation also holds the EPA accountable by requiring the agency to pay for these claims out of its own budget, and it expedites the payout of emergency response costs assumed by tribes, counties, and local governments.” Gardner continues to work on legislation that allows Good Samaritans, such as the mining industry, state agencies, local governments, nonprofits, and other groups, the opportunity to clean up the environment and improve water quality in and around orphan mines. Gardner urged his colleagues to support the legislation in a Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works hearing in March. Additionally, many questions remain regarding the events leading up to and immediately following the spill. Gardner anxiously awaits the EPA’s Office of Inspector General’s report on the spill and expects several pressing questions he sent in a letter to be included in the report. The letter reads in full: Chairman and Ranking Member: We write to request the swift consideration of the Gold King Accountability and Compensation for Taxpayers Act (Gold King ACT, S. 2950). Last August, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) released millions of gallons of wastewater into the Animas River in Silverton, Colorado. This acid mine discharge was estimated to have dumped nearly one million pounds of heavy metals into the Animas River, a tributary of the San Juan River and part of the Colorado River system. The spill spanned hundreds of miles and impacted multiple states and tribes. The Gold King ACT is a fiscally responsible bill that would direct the EPA to fully and expeditiously compensate communities impacted by this preventable, man-made environmental disaster. Currently, there are more than 60 federal tort claims relating to the Gold King Mine spill upon which the EPA has yet to act. This legislation also holds the EPA accountable by requiring the agency to pay for these claims out of its own budget, and it expedites the payout of emergency response costs assumed by tribes, counties, and local governments. Recently, the EPA announced that it is mobilizing contractors to complete the work at Gold King Mine that ultimately led to last year’s release. We think it is unacceptable for the EPA to resume work without moving forward on a single federal tort claim filed regarding the Gold King Mine release and without fully compensating emergency response costs and economic damages resulting from the spill. States, communities, tribes, businesses, and other stakeholders were significantly impacted by an environmental disaster for which the EPA is wholly accountable. This legislation represents a commonsense solution that will provide just compensation to those most affected by this spill. Your prompt consideration is greatly appreciated. ###
07.14.2016	07.14.16 Senate Approves Gardner, Bennet Resolution Honoring Senator Bill Armstrong Gardner Honors Armstrong with Senate Floor Speech Washington, DC – The U.S. Senate approved a resolution, introduced by Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Michael Bennet (D-CO), honoring the life of Senator Bill Armstrong, former United States Senator from Colorado. Born in Fremont, Nebraska, Senator Armstrong dedicated his life to public service. He served in the United States Army National Guard in Colorado, and went on to be elected to the Colorado House of Representatives at age 25. Senator Armstrong later was elected to the Colorado Senate, the U.S. House of Representatives, and then the United States Senate. Many people remember Senator Armstrong as a strong fiscal conservative who fought to rein in spending, lower taxes, secure better pay and benefits for men and women in the military, and make it easier for small businesses to succeed. After leaving the United States Senate, Senator Armstrong served the people of Colorado in a new capacity at Colorado Christian University for the past 10 years. Click here to watch Senator Gardner’s remarks on the Senate floor honoring Senator Armstrong. The Senate adjourned on July 13, 2016 in honor of Senator Armstrong. The full text of the resolution can be found here. ###
07.13.2016	07.13.16 Gardner Chairs Foreign Relations Subcommittee Hearing on South China Sea Policy Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy, today chaired a Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee hearing titled, “U.S. Policy Options in the South China Sea.” Gardner questioned Admiral Dennis C. Blair, former Commander of the U.S. Pacific Command, as well as the Honorable Kurt M. Campbell, former Assistant Secretary of State for the Bureau of East Asian and Pacific Affairs. Gardner’s hearing followed an international arbitral tribunal’s ruling in the case of the Republic of the Philippines against the People’s Republic of China regarding the dispute over the maritime claims in the South China Sea. The tribunal, which sided with the Philippines and invalidated China’s “nine-dash line" sovereignty claim that encompassed virtually the entire South China Sea, concluded in its decision “as between the Philippines and China, China’s claims to historic rights, or other sovereign rights or jurisdiction, with respect to the maritime areas of the South China Sea encompassed by the relevant part of the ‘nine-dash line’ are contrary to the Convention and without lawful effect." Earlier this week, Gardner, along with Senators Tom Cotton (R-AR), Joni Ernst (R-IA), John McCain (R-AZ), Marco Rubio (R-FL), and Dan Sullivan (R-AK), introduced a resolution calling for all parties to respect the arbitral tribunal ruling with regard to the South China Sea and to express U.S. policy on freedom of navigation and overflight in the East and South China Seas. The legislation states that the Senate opposes any actions in the South China Sea to change the status quo through coercion or force; calls on China to cease all reclamation and militarization activities in the South China Sea; reaffirms U.S. mutual defense treaties the Philippines and Japan; and urges the Secretary of Defense to routinely enforce freedom of navigation and overflight in the East and South China Seas. Gardner spoke about the arbitral tribunal’s ruling and his resolution on the Senate floor. You may view his remarks here. Click here to watch Senator Gardner’s opening remarks at the hearing. Remarks as prepared for delivery: Thank you all for being here today. Today’s hearing concerns the South China Sea and comes on the heels of an important ruling that could re-shape the Asia-Pacific region and global security in general. Yesterday, an international tribunal issued an important ruling in favor of our ally the Philippines and against the People’s Republic of China. The panel ruled that China “breached the sovereign rights of the Philippines” with regard to the maritime disputes between those two nations and invalidated China’s sovereignty claims over almost the entirety of the South China, called the ‘nine-dash line.’ In the last several years, China has significantly upped the ante and undertaken a massive effort to reclaim a number of the disputed features in the South China Sea and to militarize these islands. According to the Department of Defense, “[s]ince Chinese land reclamation efforts began in December 2013, China has…reclaimed more than 2,900 acres of land” and “has deployed artillery, built aircraft runways and buildings and positioned radars and other equipment.” While the United States is not directly a party to this dispute, and takes no position on the sovereignty claims among the various claimants, this ruling is important to our national security for several reasons. First, the South China Sea is one of the world’s most strategically important commercial waterways in the world. Almost 30 percent of the world’s maritime trade transits the South China Sea annually, including approximately $1.2 trillion in ship-borne trade bound for the United States. Second, the ruling reinforces the rights of our military to operate freely in the region, utilizing our longstanding international rights of innocent passage and transit on the high seas, the rights long established by international law. Since October 2015, the United States Navy has conducted three freedom of navigation operations (FONOPs) in the area to assert these very rights and to challenge China’s groundless sovereignty claims. Last month, I attended the Shangri-La Dialogue along with a number of my colleagues, and we heard a tremendous amount of concern from regional leaders not only about the South China Sea, but also whether the United States can endure as a regional and global leader. There should be no mistake: the South China Sea and what happens there is thus an important test of American leadership and our ability to support our close allies in the face of aggression that is outside of international norms. So today, we have two highly distinguished former officials, Admiral Blair and Dr. Campbell, to help us gauge the latest developments and U.S. policy options in the South China Sea following this important ruling. With that, I would like to recognize the distinguished Ranking Member, Senator Cardin, for his comments. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
07.13.2016	07.13.16 Gardner’s TSA Bill Included in Senate-Passed FAA Reauthorization Gardner’s SCREEN FAST Act Headed to President’s Desk to be Signed into Law Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) secured language in the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Reauthorization Act, bipartisan legislation approved by the Senate that will fund the FAA through the next fiscal year, that will help ease security lines at Denver International Airport (DIA) and airports across the country. The legislation will now be sent to the President to be signed into law before the current FAA authorization expires on July 15th. A member of the Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee, Gardner introduced the Safe Convenient Reliable Efficient Effective Next-Generation Functional and Secure TSA (SCREEN FAST) Act in May. Although the SCREEN FAST Act was not included in the original Senate bill, Gardner worked with his colleagues to ensure it was included in the final FAA package that overwhelmingly passed the House of Representatives and the U.S. Senate. “I’m proud the House and Senate came together and approved the FAA Reauthorization Act that includes my SCREEN FAST Act, legislation that addresses airport security screening processes and keeps Americans safer,” said Gardner. “I share frustration with Coloradans and Americans across the country that have to cope with long security lines, and my SCREEN FAST Act will address this problem by providing TSA and airports the flexibility to best ease security lines, while preserving safety and enhancing security. The bipartisan FAA reauthorization package is yet another example that the Senate is back to work for the American people.” Gardner’s SCREEN FAST Act will address both short-term and long-term concerns with TSA security lines at airports across the nation and is funded using existing TSA resources and airport reimbursements. The bill creates two pilot programs focused on increasing efficiency and security at airports and establishing prototypes for new and innovative screening techniques. It also directs the TSA to report to the Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation and House Homeland Security Committees on the pilot programs. Kim Day, CEO of Denver International Airport, added, "Events this year have underscored the increased pressures on our nation’s security system. We are hopeful that Sen. Gardner's amendment will give TSA the flexibility needed to continue working closely with DEN and other airports on innovative enhancements that improve security as well as the passenger experience.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
07.13.2016	07.13.16 Gardner’s Arkansas Valley Conduit, Bolts Ditch, and Florissant Fossil Beds National Monument Bills Advance Out of Committee Washington, DC – The Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee today approved three bills authored by Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO): legislation pertaining to the Arkansas Valley Conduit and Florissant Fossil Beds Monument as well as the Bolts Ditch Access and Use Act. Authorized in the 1960s, the Arkansas Valley Conduit project in Southeast Colorado will deliver clean drinking water to local communities across the region upon completion. Gardner’s bill extends greater flexibility to the Southeastern Colorado Water Conservancy District by allowing the maximum use of miscellaneous revenue collected from the Fryingpan-Arkansas Project to be immediately reinvested into the Arkansas Valley Conduit once construction begins. Gardner’s Bolts Ditch Access and Use Act would authorize special use of the Bolts Ditch headgate and the segment of the Bolts Ditch within the Holy Cross Wilderness Area, allowing Minturn to use its existing water right to fill Bolts Lake. This would solve a problem created in 1980 when Congress designated Holy Cross Wilderness area, but inadvertently left Bolts Ditch off of the list of existing water facilities. “I’m proud the Energy and Natural Resources Committee approved legislation I authored relating to the Arkansas Valley Conduit and Florissant Fossil Beds Monument, as well as the Bolts Ditch Access and Use Act,” said Gardner. “My Bolts Ditch and Arkansas Valley Conduit bills recognize Coloradans, not Washington bureaucrats, know how to best manage our state’s water resources, and I’m proud to return power to local Colorado communities.” Gardner’s Florissant Fossil Beds Monument legislation will allow for enhanced wildfire protection as well as additional habitat for wildlife and recreational opportunities for visitors. Established as a national monument in 1969, the Florissant Fossil Beds National Monument is located west of Pikes Peak and less than 40 miles from Colorado Springs, CO. The park is home to diverse fossil deposits, maintaining a collection of over 12,000 specimens. The park also provides recreational experiences and curriculum-based education programs for its visitors. A private landowner submitted a proposal to donate 280 acres of land adjacent to Florissant Fossil Beds Monument, but due to current law the land transfer cannot take place. The park, which currently possesses 5,998 acres of land, has a legislative ceiling of 6,000 acres. Therefore, if acquired, the 280-acre parcel of land would project the park above its legal threshold. This legislation is commonsense in that it would permit a private landowner to donate land to Florissant Fossil Beds National Monument. Gardner added, “My Florissant Fossil Beds National Monument bill is commonsense legislation that will allow a generous private landowner to donate land to the national monument and provide additional recreational opportunities for the park’s visitors and habitat for its wildlife. I look forward to working with my colleagues to continue to advance these three bills through the legislative process.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
07.13.2016	07.13.16 Gardner, Bennet Introduce Resolution Honoring Senator Bill Armstrong Washington, DC – Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Michael Bennet (D-CO) introduced a resolution honoring the life of Senator Bill Armstrong, former United States Senator from Colorado. Born in Fremont, Nebraska, Senator Armstrong dedicated his life to public service. He served in the United States Army National Guard in Colorado, and went on to be elected to the Colorado House of Representatives at age 25. Senator Armstrong later was elected to the Colorado Senate, the U.S. House of Representatives, and then the United States Senate. Many people remember Senator Armstrong as a strong fiscal conservative who fought to rein in spending, lower taxes, secure better pay and benefits for men and women in the military, and make it easier for small businesses to succeed. After leaving the United States Senate, Senator Armstrong served the people of Colorado in a new capacity at Colorado Christian University for the past 10 years. Gardner previously commented on the passing of Senator Armstrong and said, “Our nation lost a great public servant, whose mark on Colorado and this country embodies the virtues of liberty, faith, and family. His booming voice, piercing gaze, and love of fellow patriots will never be forgotten. So many people in Colorado were brought to conservative ideas and optimism through Senator Armstrong. The United States is a better place because of his grace, humility and boundless spirit.” Bennet also commented on the passing of Senate Armstrong and stated, “Our thoughts go out to the family and friends of Senator Bill Armstrong today. We are thankful for his decades of service and dedication to our country. Following his many years in public service, he devoted his time to educating and supporting the next generation as president of Colorado Christian University. He had a deep respect for democracy and our country’s future. That respect shall endure the test of time.” The full text of the resolution can be found here. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
07.12.2016	07.12.16 Gardner, Bennet, Perlmutter Advocate for Further Development of Commerce City Washington, DC – Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO), Michael Bennet (D-CO), and Congressman Ed Perlmutter (CO-07) today sent a letter to Senators John McCain (R-AZ) and Jack Reed (D-RI), the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Senate Armed Services Committee respectively, and Congressmen Mac Thornberry (TX-13) and Adam Smith (WA-9), the Chairman and Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee respectively, urging them to include the Rocky Mountain Arsenal National Wildlife Refuge Amendment in the final conference report of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (NDAA). The provision allows for the lifting or modification of a deed restriction on land that Commerce City, Colorado owns if the land is proven safe following an environmental assessment. Commerce City has been working with federal and state regulators to prove the property’s safety, but Congressional action is necessary to fully allow for residential or industrial use of the property. The letter reads in full: Dear Chairmen McCain and Thornberry and Ranking Members Reed and Smith: As you prepare for conference negotiations on the FY2017 National Defense Authorization Act, we urge you to include Section 2839 of House-passed H.R. 4909 in the final conference report. This provision would amend the Rocky Mountain Arsenal National Wildlife Refuge Act of 1992 (Refuge Act) to allow for the removal of deed restrictions on land Commerce City, Colorado purchased. This will only occur if an environmental risk assessment under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act finds that it is safe to do so. Although the property was cleaned up under the Refuge Act, the law included perpetual deed restrictions prohibiting the land’s use for residential or industrial uses, which regulators cannot remove until Congress amends the law. The land was part of a U.S. Army chemical weapons manufacturing facility during World War II, which subsequently became a Superfund site. After cleanup, part of the site became the Rocky Mountain Arsenal National Wildlife Refuge, and Commerce City purchased other excess land at fair market value. The City has been working for several years with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment, and the Tri-County Health Department to prove the property’s safety. The deed restrictions, however, cannot be completely removed without Congressional action. Section 2839 of H.R. 4909 creates a process for Commerce City to work with these state and federal regulators to evaluate the property. If proven safe, the deed restrictions could be modified or lifted allowing Commerce City the option to use the lands for residential or industrial purposes. We appreciate your consideration of this provision in the final conference report. Please contact our offices if we can be of any assistance. ###
07.12.2016	07.12.16 Gardner, Colleagues Introduce Resolution on South China Sea Senators Reaffirm Support for Tribunal Ruling Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy, today introduced a resolution with Senators Tom Cotton (R-AR), Joni Ernst (R-IA), John McCain (R-AZ), Marco Rubio (R-FL), and Dan Sullivan (R-AK) calling for all parties to respect the arbitral tribunal ruling with regard to the South China Sea and to express U.S. policy on freedom of navigation and overflight in the East and South China Seas. Earlier today, an international arbitral tribunal issued a binding ruling in the case of the Republic of Philippines against the People’s Republic of China regarding the dispute over the maritime jurisdiction of the South China Sea. The tribunal, which sided with the Philippines and invalidated China’s “nine-dash line,” concluded in its decision “as between the Philippines and China, China’s claims to historic rights, or other sovereign rights or jurisdiction, with respect to the maritime areas of the South China Sea encompassed by the relevant part of the ‘nine-dash line’ are contrary to the Convention and without lawful effect.” In addition to formally supporting the tribunal ruling, the resolution “urges all parties take action to implement the Declaration on the Conduct of Parties in the South China Sea and take steps towards early conclusion of a meaningful Code of Conduct, which would provide agreed upon rules of the road to reduce tension among claimant states.” The legislation also opposes any actions in the South China Sea to change the status quo through coercion or force; calls on China to cease all reclamation and militarization activities in the South China Sea; reaffirms the Treaty of Mutual Cooperation and Security between the U.S. and the Philippines; urges the Secretary of State to use all diplomatic channels to communicate U.S. support for freedom of navigation and overflight in the South China Sea; and urges the Secretary of Defense to routinely enforce freedom of navigation and overflight in the East and South China Seas. In reaction to the release of the ruling, Gardner previously stated, “This ruling is important because it confirms that China's actions and claims in the South China Sea are contrary to international law. China must abide by the decisions of the tribunal and cease all reclamation and militarization activities in the South China Sea that violate the sovereignty of its neighbors and undermine peace and stability in the region. I urge the Administration to intensify the work with our allies toward a peaceful resolution of all outstanding claims and to routinely assert the international rights of freedom of navigation and overflight in the South China Sea.” The text of the resolution can be found here. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
07.12.2016	07.12.16 Gardner Statement on South China Sea Ruling Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy, today released the below statement on the arbitral tribunal ruling on the South China Sea: “This ruling is important because it confirms that China's actions and claims in the South China Sea are contrary to international law. China must abide by the decisions of the tribunal and cease all reclamation and militarization activities in the South China Sea that violate the sovereignty of its neighbors and undermine peace and stability in the region,” said Gardner. “I urge the Administration to intensify the work with our allies toward a peaceful resolution of all outstanding claims and to routinely assert the international rights of freedom of navigation and overflight in the South China Sea.” Gardner will chair a Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy tomorrow on U.S. policy options in the South China Sea. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
07.11.2016	07.11.16 Gardner, Colleagues Question FCC Chairman on Mobile Broadband Coverage Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), a member of the Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee, joined his colleagues in sending a letter to Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Chairman Tom Wheeler regarding rural mobile broadband coverage. In the letter, Gardner and his colleagues urge Chairman Wheeler to establish Phase II of the Universal Service Fund’s Mobility Fund to “promote new mobile broadband deployment in unserved rural and agricultural areas and preserve and upgrade mobile broadband where it is currently available.” Additionally, the Senators call on the Chairman to ensure the FCC relies on accurate measurements of mobile broadband coverage. Current FCC maps overestimate mobile broadband coverage in rural areas of Colorado and other states. Gardner previously co-led an amendment with Senator Joe Manchin (D-WV) to the FCC Reauthorization Act of 2016 that would commission a feasibility study on drive testing to allow the United States Postal Service to use a device on their routes to more accurately determine mobile coverage throughout rural America. “Mobile broadband coverage is vital to Colorado’s rural communities, especially given the rise of the ever-expanding Internet of Things. For example, farmers rely on mobile broadband to utilize technology for precision agriculture, which would be impossible without mobile broadband,” said Gardner. “If implemented, Phase II of the Mobility Fund will help ensure Colorado has the necessary resources to expand mobile broadband coverage.” The letter reads in full: Dear Chairman Wheeler: As representatives of states with significant agricultural activity, we share the goal of ensuring that access to high-quality communications networks in rural America remains a top priority for the Commission. More than ever before, U.S. farmers and ranchers are demanding reliable, high-speed mobile broadband services. Mobility is essential for new precision agriculture technologies to deliver productivity gains and environmental sustainability. These technologies are transforming U.S. agriculture as American farmers and ranchers seek to feed, fuel, and clothe an ever-increasing global population using limited land, water, and other resources. We applaud the Commission’s recent decision to allow rate-of-return carriers to access support for “standalone” broadband facilities. This step will help encourage carriers to deploy modern broadband-capable wireline networks in rural areas. Importantly, this is necessary as consumers increasingly rely on wireless services and are “cutting the cord” to shift away from wireline voice, and soaring mobile broadband relies on sufficient backhaul, often provided by these wireline networks. Going forward, sufficient support must also be available to preserve and expand mobile voice and broadband. Significant work remains to ensure that broadband services are available in rural America that are reasonably comparable to those enjoyed in urban areas. Simply stated, broadband, particularly high-speed mobile broadband, is not readily available in many rural areas or could be at risk absent the right policies and support through the Universal Service Fund (USF). While progress has been made in the deployment of broadband, significant portions of rural areas have been left behind. According to the FCC, 87 percent of rural Americans (52.2 million) lack access to mobile broadband with minimum advertised speeds of 10 Mbps/1 Mbps, compared to 45 percent of those living in urban areas. Without the certainty that essential mobile broadband infrastructure will be deployed and maintained, investments in agricultural productivity will be delayed or bypassed altogether, and the potential efficiencies and benefits to rural communities will be lost. The extension of high-speed mobile and backhaul facilities to agricultural croplands and ranch lands must keep pace with the ongoing deployment of technology in the field. Increasing numbers of modems in the field means a growing demand for connectivity in the areas in which they operate. The expansion of rural broadband should be a top priority of federal and state policymakers, as expanded deployment in rural areas will address important economic, educational, health care, and public safety goals. Ongoing USF reform can provide a mechanism for enabling mobile broadband access in rural communities where “people live, work, and travel” that is truly comparable to broadband services provided in urban and suburban areas. To accomplish this goal, USF should support mobile broadband at a minimum of today’s level to close the coverage gap while preserving existing service. In this regard, we ask you to give special attention as you work to establish Phase II of the USF’s Mobility Fund (MF). Given the importance of mobile services today, the MF should be retained and updated to ensure that funding will promote new mobile broadband deployment in unserved rural and agricultural areas and preserve and upgrade mobile broadband where it is currently available. Importantly, the FCC must rely on realistic measurements of network experience on the ground to determine areas to support. Croplands and ranch lands have lagged behind in adequate mobile coverage, even as demand for coverage has grown. To address this coverage gap, we urge you to consider a metric of broadband access in croplands (and farm buildings), or some other geographic measurement, in addition to road miles, to identify these areas of greatest need. “Cropland” coverage can be assessed using United States Department of Agriculture data for crop operations, the United States Geological Survey’s Land Use classification, or other databases. Agriculture is a significant generator of economic activity in our states. We greatly appreciate your efforts to ensure that the latest mobile broadband services are provided to all Americans, including those in agriculture whose livelihoods depend on it. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
07.08.2016	07.08.16 Gardner’s Bill to Ease TSA Security Lines, Enhance Security Included in FAA Reauthorization Bill Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), a member of the Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee, secured language in the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Reauthorization bill that will help ease security lines at Denver International Airport (DIA) and airports across the country, while also improving security and safety at airports. Gardner introduced the Safe Convenient Reliable Efficient Effective Next-Generation Functional and Secure TSA (SCREEN FAST) Act in May. Although the language was not included in the original Senate bill, Gardner worked with his colleagues to ensure his legislation was part of the final FAA bill that is scheduled to be voted on by both the House and Senate next week and sent to the President. The current authorization for the FAA expires on July 15th. Gardner’s SCREEN FAST Act will address both short-term and long-term concerns with TSA security lines at airports across the nation and is funded using existing TSA resources and airport reimbursements. The bill creates two pilot programs focused on increasing efficiency and security at airports and establishing prototypes for new and innovative screening techniques. It also directs the TSA to report to the Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation and House Homeland Security Committees on the pilot programs. “As airport security lines plague travelers across Colorado and the country, it’s important we provide TSA and airports the flexibility to best ease security lines,” said Gardner. “My SCREEN FAST Act provides innovative solutions to streamline the security screening process and make it more efficient, while preserving safety and security. I’m pleased my bill is included in the final FAA Reauthorization package and look forward to supporting this bipartisan bill as it advances through the final stages of the legislative process.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
07.08.2016	07.08.16 Gardner Statement on THAAD Deployment in South Korea Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the below statement after the United States and South Korea agreed to deploy the Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) missile defense system to protect against the North Korean threat. Gardner was an outspoken advocate of strengthening missile defense capabilities in South Korea to protect the 28,500 American servicemen and women stationed in South Korea, our allies, and Americans abroad. In May, Gardner introduced an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act that expressed support for the deployment of THAAD to complement and significantly bolster existing missile defense technology. In June, Gardner visited South Korea and met with Defense Minister Han Min Koo, National Security Advisor Kim Kwan-jin, and Vice Minister of Foreign Affairs Lim as well as Commander of United States Forces Korea (USFK), General Vincent Brooks. They discussed a mutual concern for North Korea’s ballistic missile tests and the important role of THAAD in strengthening defense against the regime’s aggression. Additionally, Gardner met with South Korean President Park Geun-hye and discussed security challenges last year. “The deployment of THAAD is recognition of North Korea’s increasingly belligerent behavior and will intensify our defense capabilities in South Korea to protect the tens of thousands of Americans who serve in the region as well as our allies,” said Gardner. “It’s reassuring that the Obama Administration is finally taking steps to move away from its failed policy of ‘strategic patience’ toward Pyongyang. I call on the Administration to further implement my North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act and pursue additional military and missile defense cooperation with our allies South Korea and Japan to deter the threat from Pyongyang.” Gardner introduced the North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act (NKSPEA), legislation that imposes mandatory sanctions on individuals who contribute to North Korea’s nuclear program, proliferation activities, malicious cyberattacks, and human rights abuses. The NKSPEA was signed into law by President Obama in February of 2016, and the Administration began implementing the legislation in March with the enactment of additional sanctions. In June, Treasury designated North Korea as a “primary money laundering concern,” a move that further isolates North Korea from the international financial system by prohibiting all direct and indirect contact of North Korea-linked entities with the U.S. financial system. Most recently, North Korean leader Kim Jong Un, top North Korean officials, and 10 individuals and several entities tied to the regime were designated as notorious human rights abusers as required by Gardner’s bill. The designation marks the first ever human rights sanctions imposed on North Korea and corresponds with the release of the State Department’s report identifying severe human rights abusers, which was also required by the NKSPEA. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
07.08.2016	07.08.16 Gardner Statement on Shootings Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statement: “I’m horrified by the deadly events of this week. No one should ever be targeted because of the color of their skin, or the color blue of a police uniform. I join the nation in grieving for the loss of life that’s sent shockwaves throughout our communities this week, and I pray that we can unite and show the world that good ultimately overcomes evil and peace will prevail.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
07.07.2016	07.07.16 Gardner Bills To Receive Mark-Up Next Week Gardner’s Arkansas Valley Conduit, Bolts Ditch, and Florissant Fossil Beds National Monument Bills Receive Committee Vote Washington, DC – The Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee announced today it will hold a mark-up on Tuesday, July 12th that includes three bills authored by Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO): legislation pertaining to the Arkansas Valley Conduit and Florissant Fossil Beds Monument as well as the Bolts Ditch Access and Use Act. Authorized in the 1960s, the Arkansas Valley Conduit project in Southeast Colorado will deliver clean drinking water to local communities across the region upon completion. Gardner’s bill extends greater flexibility to the Southeastern Colorado Water Conservancy District by allowing the maximum use of miscellaneous revenue collected from the Fryingpan-Arkansas Project to be immediately reinvested into the Arkansas Valley Conduit once construction begins. Gardner’s Florissant Fossil Beds Monument legislation will allow for enhanced wildfire protection as well as additional habitat for wildlife and recreational opportunities for visitors. Established as a national monument in 1969, the Florissant Fossil Beds National Monument is located west of Pikes Peak and less than 40 miles from Colorado Springs, CO. The park is home to diverse fossil deposits, maintaining a collection of over 12,000 specimens. The park also provides recreational experiences and curriculum-based education programs for its visitors. A private landowner submitted a proposal to donate 280 acres of land adjacent to Florissant Fossil Beds Monument, but due to current law the land transfer cannot take place. The park, which currently possesses 5,998 acres of land, has a legislative ceiling of 6,000 acres. Therefore, if acquired, the 280-acre parcel of land would project the park above its legal threshold. This legislation is commonsense in that it would permit a private landowner to donate land to Florissant Fossil Beds National Monument. Gardner’s Bolts Ditch Access and Use Act would authorize special use of the Bolts Ditch headgate and the segment of the Bolts Ditch within the Holy Cross Wilderness Area, allowing Minturn to use its existing water right to fill Bolts Lake. This would solve a problem created in 1980 when Congress designated Holy Cross Wilderness area, but inadvertently left Bolts Ditch off of the list of existing water facilities. “I’m proud the Energy and Natural Resources Committee will consider these Colorado priorities,” said Gardner. “The Bolts Ditch, Arkansas Valley Conduit, and Florissant Fossil Beds National Monument legislation are important to Colorado communities and I’m pleased my bills are advancing through the legislative process.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
07.07.2016	07.07.16 Gardner Announces Grants for Several Colorado Airports Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today several Colorado airports are receiving United States Department of Transportation (DOT) grants. Colorado Springs Airport will receive $6,738,000 for taxiway rehabilitation and taxiway lighting; Centennial Airport will receive $6,959,595 for runway rehabilitation; and Rocky Mountain Metropolitan Airport will receive $6,290,000 for runway rehabilitation and taxiway lighting. “I’m pleased three separate Colorado airports are receiving several million dollars each from the U.S. Department of Transportation to update their facilities,” said Gardner. “Our airports serve several Colorado communities and businesses that will all benefit from these funds. I’ll continue to advocate for Colorado communities at the federal level to ensure our state receives the necessary resources to best serve Coloradans.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
07.07.2016	07.07.16 Gardner Announces Gold King Mine Spill Recovery Grant for La Plata County Gardner Pressures EPA to Fully Reimburse Colorado Communities Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today the Economic Development Administration (EDA) awarded La Plata County $57,809 to aid recovery efforts following the Gold King Mine spill. The grant will be used to aid data collection, market analysis, and hire a recovery coordinator “to assist San Juan County’s businesses and residents.” Gardner has repeatedly called on the federal government to provide the necessary resources to Colorado communities affected by the spill. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) still has not fully reimbursed for emergency response costs incurred as a result of the Gold King Mine spill, or paid a single claim filed under the Federal Tort Claims Act by those injured. Earlier this year, Gardner and Senator Orrin Hatch (R-UT) introduced legislation that would require EPA to fully and expeditiously compensate all communities and individuals that were impacted by the Gold King Mine disaster. “I’m pleased La Plata County will receive federal funds to assist in the recovery from the EPA-born Gold King Mine spill, but I’m disappointed EPA has yet to fully reimburse my constituents,” said Gardner. “While these federal funds are another step toward recovery in the area, the EPA must right this wrong and fully compensate the people of Southwest Colorado. Private citizens and small businesses continue to be harmed because the EPA has not lived up to their commitment. I will continue to pressure the EPA and advocate for my constituents affected by this disaster.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
07.07.2016	07.07.16 Gardner, Cornyn Introduce Bill to Revoke Secretary Clinton’s Security Clearance Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Senate Majority Whip John Cornyn (R-TX) introduced S.3135, the Taking Responsibility Using Secured Technologies (TRUST) Act of 2016, legislation that would revoke Former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s security clearance as well as the security clearances of Secretary Clinton’s colleagues at the State Department who exhibited extreme carelessness in their handling of classified information. Additionally, the TRUST Act expresses the sense of Congress that Secretary Clinton should not have access to classified information again until she earns the legal right to such access. The legislation follows the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s (FBI) investigation into Secretary Clinton’s use of a personal e-mail system in her capacity as Secretary of State. In an announcement earlier this week, FBI Director James Comey said that “there is evidence that they were extremely careless in their handling of very sensitive, highly classified information” and “none of these e-mails should have been on any kind of unclassified system, but their presence is especially concerning because all of these e-mails were housed on unclassified personal servers not even supported by full-time security staff.” The FBI uncovered several thousand additional emails related to her position, some of which contained classified material, that were not included in the 30,000 emails Clinton handed over to the State Department. Comey concluded the FBI’s findings with “we assess it is possible that hostile actors gained access to Secretary Clinton’s personal e-mail account.” Comey stated the investigation initially focused on whether classified information was transmitted on Secretary Clinton’s personal e-mail system and evolved to determine if there is evidence that classified information was not properly transmitted or stored on that personal e-mail system and whether there is evidence that the system was hacked by foreign or hostile hackers. While Comey confirmed that classified information was transmitted and stored improperly and the personal e-mail system may have been hacked, he formally recommended that no charges be filed against Secretary Clinton. “The FBI’s investigation into Secretary Clinton’s personal e-mail server confirmed what Americans across the country already know: Secretary Clinton recklessly accessed classified information on an insecure system – establishing a vulnerable and highly desirable target for foreign hackers,” said Gardner. “If the FBI won’t recommend action based on its findings, Congress will. At the very least, Secretary Clinton should not have access to classified information and our bill makes sure of it.” “Access to classified information is a tremendous responsibility, and should only be entrusted to those who will treat that information with the care it deserves,” said Senator Cornyn. “When individuals mishandle our country’s most sensitive information they jeopardize national security and shouldn’t be trusted with such an important responsibility.” ###
07.06.2016	07.06.16 Gardner Statement on Passing of Senator Bill Armstrong Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the below statement on the passing of Senator Bill Armstrong: “Our nation lost a great public servant, whose mark on Colorado and this country embodies the virtues of liberty, faith, and family. His booming voice, piercing gaze, and love of fellow patriots will never be forgotten. So many people in Colorado were brought to conservative ideas and optimism through Senator Armstrong. The United States is a better place because of his grace, humility and boundless spirit.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
07.06.2016	07.06.16 Gardner Statement on Sanctions Against Kim Jong Un Gardner’s Bill Required Designation of Human Rights Abusers in North Korea Washington, DC – The U.S. Department of Treasury today designated North Korean leader Kim Jong Un, top North Korean officials, and 10 individuals and several entities tied to the regime as notorious human rights abusers as required by Senator Cory Gardner’s (R-CO) North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act (NKSPEA). The designation marks the first ever human rights sanctions imposed on North Korea and coincides with the release of the State Department’s report identifying severe human rights abusers, which was also required by the NKSPEA. Gardner has long advocated for sanctioning North Korea’s human rights abusers. In 2015, Gardner spoke at Johns Hopkins University’s School of Advanced International Studies (SAIS) conference about why the U.S. should lead in addressing North Korea’s continued human rights abuses. Gardner also met with Justice Michael Kirby, who was appointed by the United Nations Human Rights Council to investigate human rights violations in North Korea. Gardner’s legislation, which was signed into law by President Obama in February of 2016, mandated sanctions against persons that have enabled North Korea’s human rights abuses or censorship efforts. Additionally, the legislation required the President to develop a comprehensive strategy to promote human rights in North Korea, including a diplomatic outreach plan and a public diplomacy awareness campaign, and required the State Department to submit to Congress a diplomatic strategy to end repatriation of North Korean refugees and forced labor or slavery. The NKSPEA also imposes mandatory sanctions on individuals who contribute to North Korea’s nuclear program, proliferation activities, malicious cyberattacks, and other illicit behavior. “I applaud Treasury for sanctioning one of the world’s most notorious human rights abusers, Kim Jong Un, as well as top officials and individuals and entities who enable the imprisonment of an estimated 200,000 men, women, and children in North Korea,” said Gardner. “My North Korean Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act recognized that in order to peacefully disarm the North Korean regime, sanctions must extend beyond those who contribute to proliferation activities and address severe human rights abusers. Today’s designation is a pivot away from the Obama Administration’s previous failed strategy of ‘strategic patience’ toward the regime and represents a significant step toward addressing North Korea’s increasingly belligerent behavior.” The Treasury Department began implementing Gardner’s bill in March, shortly after it was signed into law. In June, Treasury designated North Korea as a “primary money laundering concern,” a move that further isolates North Korea from the international financial system by prohibiting all direct and indirect contact of North Korea-linked entities with the U.S. financial system. In April, Gardner met with Acting Under Secretary for Terrorism and Financial Intelligence Adam Szubin, who is the official primarily responsible for enforcing U.S. economic sanctions policy. As Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy, Gardner asked Szubin for status of the implementation of his North Korea sanctions legislation. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
07.06.2016	07.06.16 Gardner, Colleagues Question President Obama’s Silence in the Face of Russia Aggression Washington, DC – Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO), David Perdue (R-GA), Johnny Isakson (R-GA), and Marco Rubio (R-FL), members of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, today sent a letter to President Obama regarding recent reports of harassment and violence toward U.S. diplomats, as well as the Administration’s proposal to enter into an agreement with Russia in Syria. Recently, Gardner joined his colleagues on the Foreign Relations Committee in introducing a bipartisan resolution that calls on Russia to cease provocative military maneuvers that endanger U.S. forces and calls on the U.S., its European allies, and the international community to continue to apply pressure on Moscow. Earlier this year, Gardner visited Europe to discuss NATO’s ability to counter Russian aggression. He met with European leaders, U.S. diplomats, and military personnel, who all agreed on the need for strong U.S. leadership and enhanced presence in the face of Russia’s increasingly belligerent actions. The letter reads in full: Dear Mr. President: We are gravely concerned with recent reports of violence and harassment directed toward U.S. diplomats by the Russian authorities and call on you to take immediate action, including recalling the U.S. Ambassador to the Russian Federation and imposing additional U.S. sanctions on the Russian Federation. Moreover, we are deeply concerned with reports that despite these incidents and Russia’s mistreatment of U.S. diplomats, your Administration plans to sign an agreement to cooperate with the Russians in Syria. According to the Washington Post report on June 30, “[u]nder the proposal, which was personally approved by President Obama and heavily supported by Secretary of State John F. Kerry, the American and Russian militaries would cooperate at an unprecedented level, something the Russians have sought for a long time.” The article alleges that U.S. Defense Secretary Ashton Carter opposed this agreement, but “was compelled to go along” and if that is the case, we are outraged that our military’s views have apparently been disregarded. As detailed by the Washington Post on June 27 and June 29, 2016, Russian authorities repeatedly harassed U.S. diplomats and allegedly assaulted a American diplomat in front of the U.S. Embassy in Moscow. When asked about the allegations, Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs spokesperson Maria Zakharova not only tacitly confirmed this behavior, but also indicated that the harassment will continue “the more U.S. damages relations” with Russia. This behavior is unacceptable, contrary to the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations, and is an affront to our nation by a Russian government determined to undermine bilateral ties. The assault of one of our diplomats in front of our own Embassy should result in serious consequences for the perpetrators of these crimes. Therefore, we call on you to immediately recall U.S. Ambassador to the Russian Federation John Tefft to Washington, until such time as the Russian Federation offers an official apology for these incidents and impose additional U.S. sanctions on those individuals that authorized and perpetrated these crimes, including financial sanctions and lifetime visa bans to the United States. We also urge you to declare persona non grata relevant staff from Embassy of the Russian Federation in the United States. Mr. President, we believe that these incidents are part of a disturbing and proven pattern of aggressive behavior of Russia under President Vladimir Putin that seeks to confront the United States worldwide and undermine our national security. While diplomacy must always be the first step, we must confront this growing threat with requisite force and resolve and not bend to Russia’s demands over the objection of our military leaders. We look forward to your immediate action. ###
07.01.2016	07.01.16 Gardner Statement on Independence Day Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statement marking Independence Day: “The Fourth of July is an opportunity to reflect on the bitter cold December night in 1776 when the Continental Army did what many at the time believed was impossible: advance across the Delaware River and win the war for American Independence. It’s a reminder of all of the sacrifices of our Founders as well as the many sacrifices our men and women in uniform continue to make to protect the freedoms that those Americans fought so tirelessly for 200 years ago. Our country is so great thanks to those throughout history who have stood up to safeguard our American values and the principles that define us as a country – and that’s our love for life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. I extend my sincere gratitude to veterans and all of those in the armed forces who give up so much so that we may continue to live in the freest nation on Earth.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
06.30.2016	06.30.16 Gardner, Lee Introduce Legislation to Reduce Government Regulations Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Senator Mike Lee (R-UT) introduced the Reducing Excessive Government (REG) Act, legislation that would require that any increase in the debt limit approved by Congress and the President be accompanied by a proportional reduction in regulatory burden for every new dollar of debt. “As I travel around Colorado, I continue to hear from small business owners who are struggling with burdensome federal regulations that stand in the way of their growth and expansion,” said Gardner. “As we continue to work toward a full economic recovery, it’s important that Congress acts to counter Washington’s top-down regulations and failed one-size-fits-all approach. The REG Act is commonsense legislation that aims to reduce the number of excessive, Washington-born regulations in order to pave the way for American entrepreneurs and innovators to do what they do best: create jobs and grow the economy.” “Any time Congress decides to raise the debt ceiling, substantive policy changes need to be made that would affect the long-term trajectory of the country,” said Lee. "This bill would require a serious evaluation of our regulatory policy any time the debt ceiling is raised. It would give Congress the power and regular opportunity to lift regulatory burdens on the public that hurt innovation and growth." In the event of a temporary suspension of the debt limit, the REG Act would require the Secretary of the Treasury to submit an estimate to Congress for the amount of new debt which would be incurred during that suspension. If the debt limit were to be raised by a set amount rather than suspended, a proportional reduction of at least 15 percent would apply to that set amount. Additionally, the REG Act requires federal agencies to provide Congress with a report, certified by the Government Accountability Office, of regulations with a cost to the United States’ economy of over $100 million. Congress would be required to vote on the removal of an amount of regulatory burden equal to at least 15 percent of the amount of new debt. The President would then sign that removal legislation into law. If Congress fails to pass the removal of regulatory burden or the President fails to sign it, the debt limit would snap back to current levels plus any debt acquired since passage of legislation to increase or suspend the debt limit. ###
06.29.2016	06.29.16 Gardner, Warner, Heller, Kaine Introduce Bill to Empower Student Borrowers Legislation would help college students and their families make smart decisions about financing their educations with enhanced student loan counseling for all recipients of federal financial aid WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Sens. Cory Gardner (R-CO), Mark R. Warner (D-VA), Dean Heller (R-NV), and Tim Kaine (D-VA) introduced bipartisan legislation to help students make smart decisions in the financing of their higher education. The Empowering Students Through Enhanced Financial Counseling Act would promote financial literacy by providing students who are recipients of federal financial aid with comprehensive counseling services. Nationwide, Americans owe more than $1.3 trillion in student loan debt, outstripping credit cards and auto loans as the country’s leading source of non-housing debt. A companion bill has been introduced in the House of Representatives and carries strong bipartisan support. “Student debt continues to negatively impact Coloradans and Americans across the country, and that’s why it’s important that students receiving federal financial aid have access to resources, including financial counseling, that will better inform their financial decisions prior to undertaking massive student loan debt,” said Sen. Gardner. “A high quality education provides students with the tools they need to succeed, and financial literacy is an essential component to achieving that success. I look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to advance this bipartisan proposal that provides institutions of higher education with the resources they need to expand educational opportunities.” “In January, Senator Kaine and I met with student leaders from 20 colleges and universities across Virginia, who shared the challenges they have faced paying for college and the negative effects of crippling student loan debt. Several of the students had powerful personal stories about their struggles to find the money for college, and how they wished they had had better information about their options when they were taking out tens of thousands of dollars in loans to finance their education,” said Sen. Warner. “And these kinds of stories are common across the Commonwealth. Today, a college student in Virginia can expect to graduate with more than $26,000 in debt. As the first person in my family to graduate from college, I know that if I had graduated with that level of debt, I would not have had opportunities to try – and to fail – with several of my early business ventures. By neglecting to give students meaningful financial counseling when they take out loans to pay for college, we’re limiting their options and stifling our country’s economic future. I’m proud to be leading this bipartisan effort in the Senate to empower students with the information they need to make informed decisions about their futures.” “Recently, student loan debt rose to a record high of $1.35 trillion nationwide. Now more than ever, it is critical to ensure that students are making smart decisions about financing their higher education. Navigating the student loan process can be complicated and confusing, and students deserve to have the tools they need to manage their loans in a responsible way. I am proud to introduce this legislation alongside Senator Warner to provide students with essential information to make well-informed, sound financial decisions for their college education and future,” said Sen. Heller. “College affordability is an issue our country is grappling with at the national level, state level and especially at the family level,” Sen. Kaine said. “This bill will help families make smart decisions when they take out loans by providing comprehensive financial guidance. We need to implement these strategies for students in high school so they are well-informed early, can afford to get a higher education and have a successful start to their career without being weighed down by student loan debt.” To help students make smart decisions about financing their higher education, the Empowering Students Through Enhanced Financial Counseling Act will promote financial literacy through enhanced counseling for all recipients of federal financial aid. Specifically, the bill: • Ensures borrowers, both students and parents, who participate in the federal loan program receive interactive counseling each year that reflects their individual borrowing situation. • Directs the Secretary of Education to maintain and disseminate a consumer-tested, online counseling tool that institutions can use to provide annual loan counseling, exit counseling, and annual Pell Grant counseling. • Provides awareness about the financial obligations students and parents are accumulating by requiring borrowers to consent each year before receiving federal student loans. • Informs low-income students about the terms and conditions of the Pell Grant program through annual counseling that will be provided to all grant recipients. A copy of the legislative text is available here. A one-page summary and answers to frequently asked questions are available here. ###
06.29.2016	06.29.16 Gardner’s Outdoor Recreation Bill Approved by Commerce Committee Washington, DC – The United States Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee today approved Senator Cory Gardner’s (R-CO) Outdoor Recreation Jobs and Economic Impact Act, a bipartisan bill introduced with Senator Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH). This legislation would inform policymakers and business leaders on the jobs created, and the consumer spending driven by, the outdoor recreation economy. In April, Secretary of the Interior Sally Jewell announced the Federal Recreation Council will work with the Commerce Department’s Bureau of Economic Analysis to assess the economic impact of the outdoor recreation industry. Before this announcement, the federal government had never measured outdoor recreation’s impact on the nation’s economy despite estimations that this sector generates $646 billion in consumer spending each year and supports 6.1 million jobs. Gardner’s legislation will ensure this assessment is codified. The Outdoor Recreation Jobs and Economic Impact Act is supported by over 60 organizations and businesses, including the Outdoor Industry Association and the U.S. Travel Association. “I’m pleased the Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee approved my legislation, which will allow federal, state, and local policymakers to better understand the economic impact outdoor recreation has on our economy,” said Gardner. “Outdoor recreation is a way of life in Colorado and across the West, and people from all over the world travel to Colorado to experience the state’s great outdoors. I’m proud this legislation will help highlight the industry’s economic benefit, and I look forward to working with Senator Shaheen to further advance this legislation.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
06.29.2016	06.29.16 Commerce Committee Approves Gardner-Peters Bill to Keep America Competitive Authorizes a Four Percent Increase in 2018 for Research & Development Policy Washington, DC – The Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee today approved the American Innovation and Competitiveness Act, legislation introduced by Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) along with Senator Gary Peters (D-MI), leaders of the Committee’s innovation and competitiveness working group on federal science and technology research policies. The bipartisan American Innovation and Competitiveness Act maximizes basic research by reducing administrative burdens for researchers, enhancing agency oversight, improving research dissemination, and reforming federal science agencies to increase the impact of taxpayer-funded research. The legislation includes a four percent increase in National Science Foundation (NSF) and National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) authorization levels for FY 2018 over FY 2017, and it most directly affects programs within NSF, NIST, and the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP). “I’m pleased the Commerce Committee acted expediently to advance this important, bipartisan bill through the legislative process,” said Gardner. “The American Innovation and Competitiveness Act is essential to ensuring our science and research communities and the next generation of leaders have the resources necessary to keep America competitive. I thank Chairman Thune for his leadership as well as Ranking Member Nelson and Senator Peters who have contributed throughout this process, which included multiple roundtables and working groups over the past year and a half. When America competes, new opportunities are unlocked and this legislation supports the entrepreneurial spirit that makes America so great.” “Basic science research is the foundation of our economy, creating jobs and new opportunities for researchers to discover and entrepreneurs to innovate,” said Senator Peters, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Space, Science and Competitiveness. “The American Innovation and Competitiveness Act will help invest in basic research, encourage stronger education efforts to train the next generation of workers and capitalize on new discoveries that will strengthen American competitiveness. I am proud to have worked with Senator Gardner, Chairman Thune and Ranking Member Nelson to craft this bipartisan legislation that will help ensure America remains at the forefront of an increasingly high-tech global marketplace.” Last July, Sens. Gardner and Peters kicked off efforts to build a consensus way forward for federal research policies. Their innovation and competitiveness working group held three roundtables with research community stakeholders and collected hundreds of submissions and comments sent to SciencePolicy@commerce.senate.gov to inform the group’s work. In May, the Commerce Committee held a formal hearing with research community witnesses who praised the committee for its efforts to build a bipartisan consensus. Former National Science Board official Dr. Kelvin Droegemeier stated, “This committee has already addressed one of the greatest long-term threats to American innovation: You’ve made science bipartisan again, countering rhetoric that has at times made the research community feel under siege.” Highlights of S. 3084, the American Innovation and Competitiveness Act Maximizing Basic Research - Peer review – Reaffirms the NSF’s merit-based peer review process for determining grants. - Broadening research opportunities – Updates and renames NSF’s Experimental Program to Stimulate Competitive Research (EPSCoR) for underutilized regions to reflect its established record. - Cybersecurity research – Directs research to help better protect computer systems from cyber threats. - Transparency and accountability – Codifies reforms to increase transparency and accountability in the National Science Foundation (NSF) grantmaking process. - Oversight implementation – Requires NSF to address concerns about waste and abuse by improving oversight of large research facility construction, updates a conflicts of interest policy, and reforms management of the Antarctic research program. Reducing Regulatory Burdens - Interagency working group – Establishes an Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and OSTP-led interagency working group to reduce administrative burdens on federally-funded researchers. - Obsolete reporting requirements – Repeals obsolete federal agency reporting requirements as well as previous authorizations for programs that have not been implemented. Science, Technology, Engineering, Mathematics (STEM) Education - Outside advisory panel – Authorizes a STEM education advisory panel of outside experts to help guide federal STEM education program decision making. - Expands opportunities for women – Expands NSF grant programs to increase participation and expand STEM opportunities to women and other under-represented groups. Manufacturing, Commercialization, and Leveraging the Private Sector - Crowdsourcing Science – Expands opportunities for crowdsourcing research input and citizen science participation by organizations and individuals. - Manufacturing – Updates NIST’s Hollings Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP) Program for small and medium sized businesses by adjusting the federal cost-share requirement and implementing new accountability and oversight requirements. - Promoting entrepreneurship – Authorizes and expands NSF’s Innovation Corps program to promote entrepreneurship and commercialization education, training, and mentoring of federally-funded researchers. - Commercialization grants – Authorizes and expands grants to promote the commercialization of federally-funded research. ###
06.28.2016	06.28.16 Gardner Announces $1 Million Grant for Colorado Wildfire Mitigation Washington, DC– Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statement following the announcement of a partnership between the United States Forest Service (USFS), the Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS), and the American Forest Foundation (AFF). These groups will work with private landowners to reduce the risk of wildfires through various mitigation projects in the Upper South Platte region. “Wildfire mitigation is important because it can protect property and save lives,” said Gardner. “This public-private partnership is a great example of the federal government working with private landowners and local governments on behalf of Colorado communities. I will continue to be a voice for Colorado at the federal level to ensure Coloradans receive the resources they need.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
06.28.2016	06.28.16 **MEDIA ADVISORY** Gardner’s American Innovation and Competitiveness Act to Receive Committee Markup Tomorrow Washington, DC – The United States Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation will hold a markup of S. 3084, the American Innovation and Competitiveness Act, a bill authored by Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Gary Peters (D-MI), on Wednesday, June 29, 2016 at 10:00 a.m. WHAT: Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee Markup of the American Innovation and Competitiveness Act WHEN: Wednesday, June 29th at 10:00 AM EST. WHERE: Senate Russell 253 S. 3084 most directly affects programs within the National Science Foundation (NSF), National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), and the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP). Last July, Gardner and Peters kicked off efforts to build a consensus way forward for federal research policies. Their competitiveness working group held three roundtables with research community stakeholders and collected hundreds of submissions and comments sent to SciencePolicy@commerce.senate.gov to inform the group’s work. In May, the Commerce Committee held a formal hearing with research community witnesses who praised the committee for its efforts to build a bipartisan consensus. Said former National Science Board official Dr. Kelvin Droegemeier in hearing testimony: “This committee has already addressed one of the greatest long-term threats to American innovation: You’ve made science bipartisan again, countering rhetoric that has at times made the research community feel under siege.” The bipartisan bill was introduced on June 23, 2016. A substitute amendment that includes a four percent increase in National Science Foundation (NSF) and NIST authorization levels for FY 2018 over FY 2017 in addition to technical corrections to the bill following feedback from various stakeholder groups followed. Highlights of S. 3084, the American Innovation and Competitiveness Act: Maximizing Basic Research Peer review – Reaffirms the NSF’s merit-based peer review process for determining grants. Broadening research opportunities – Updates and renames NSF’s Experimental Program to Stimulate Competitive Research (EPSCoR) for underutilized regions to reflect its established record. Cybersecurity research – Directs research to help better protect computer systems from cyber threats. - Transparency and accountability – Codifies reforms to increase transparency and accountability in the National Science Foundation (NSF) grantmaking process. Oversight implementation – Requires NSF to address concerns about waste and abuse by improving oversight of large research facility construction, updates a conflicts of interest policy, and reforms management of the Antarctic research program. Reducing Regulatory Burdens Interagency working group – Establishes an Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and OSTP-led interagency working group to reduce administrative burdens on federally-funded researchers. Obsolete reporting requirements – Repeals obsolete federal agency reporting requirements as well as previous authorizations for programs that have not been implemented. Science, Technology, Engineering, Mathematics (STEM) Education Outside advisory panel – Authorizes a STEM education advisory panel of outside experts to help guide federal STEM education program decision making. Expands opportunities for women – Expands NSF grant programs to increase participation and expand STEM opportunities to women and other under-represented groups. Manufacturing, Commercialization, and Leveraging the Private Sector Crowdsourcing Science – Expands opportunities for crowdsourcing research input and citizen science participation by organizations and individuals. Manufacturing – Updates NIST’s Hollings Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP) Program for small and medium sized businesses by adjusting the federal cost-share requirement and implementing new accountability and oversight requirements. Promoting entrepreneurship – Authorizes and expands NSF’s Innovation Corps program to promote entrepreneurship and commercialization education, training, and mentoring of federally-funded researchers. Commercialization grants – Authorizes and expands grants to promote the commercialization of federally-funded research. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
06.28.2016	06.28.16 Gardner Announces $5.9 Million in Grants for Denver International Airport Fort Morgan, Durango-La Plata, Yuma, Spanish Peaks Airports Also Receive Grant Money Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today that Denver International Airport, along with several other Colorado airports, will receive Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) grants. Denver International Airport will receive $5,972,434 for taxiway rehabilitation; Fort Morgan Municipal airport will receive $118,755 to produce an airport master plan study; Durango-La Plata County Airport will receive $215,000 for taxiway rehabilitation; Yuma Municipal Airport will receive $118,755 to produce an airport master plan study; and Spanish Peaks Airfield Airport will receive $200,000 to install airport beacons. “I’m pleased several Colorado airports will receive FAA grants, including more than $5.9 million for DIA,” said Gardner. “DIA, along with other airports throughout the state, are vital to the Colorado communities they serve, and it is important the FAA recognizes their benefits. I will continue to be a champion for Colorado at the federal level and ensure the state and local communities are receiving the resources they need.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
06.28.2016	06.28.16 Gardner, Peters Introduce Substitute to American Innovation and Competitiveness Act Authorizes a Four Percent Increase in 2018 for Research & Development Policy Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) along with Senator Gary Peters (D-MI), leaders of the Senate Commerce Committee’s innovation and competitiveness working group on federal science and technology research policies, introduced a substitute amendment to S. 3084, the American Innovation and Competitiveness Act. The amendment includes a four percent increase in National Science Foundation (NSF) and National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) authorization levels for FY 2018 over FY 2017 in addition to technical corrections to the bill following feedback from various stakeholder groups. The bipartisan American Innovation and Competitiveness Act maximizes basic research by reducing administrative burdens for researchers, enhancing agency oversight, improving research dissemination, and reforming federal science agencies to increase the impact of taxpayer-funded research. The legislation most directly affects programs within the National Science Foundation (NSF), National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), and the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP). It will be considered by the Commerce Committee at a markup scheduled for June 29, 2016, at 10:00 a.m. “The substitute amendment I introduced with Senator Peters to the American Innovation and Competitiveness Act recognizes the importance of providing robust resources to our research and science communities in order to keep America competitive,” said Senator Gardner. “I’m proud of the bipartisan nature of this legislation, and I look forward to a full and open debate.” “In order to ensure our nation’s long-term prosperity, we must commit to making considerable, predictable investments in research and development that will keep our country globally competitive,” said Senator Peters, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Space, Science and Competitiveness. “These investments are a down payment on America’s economic future and I’m proud Senator Gardner and I were able to craft a bipartisan plan to increase federal investments in basic research that will build the foundation for a stronger ecosystem of discovery and innovation." Highlights of S. 3084, the American Innovation and Competitiveness Act Maximizing Basic Research - Peer review – Reaffirms the NSF’s merit-based peer review process for determining grants. - Broadening research opportunities – Updates and renames NSF’s Experimental Program to Stimulate Competitive Research (EPSCoR) for underutilized regions to reflect its established record. - Cybersecurity research – Directs research to help better protect computer systems from cyber threats. - Transparency and accountability – Codifies reforms to increase transparency and accountability in the National Science Foundation (NSF) grantmaking process. - Oversight implementation – Requires NSF to address concerns about waste and abuse by improving oversight of large research facility construction, updates a conflicts of interest policy, and reforms management of the Antarctic research program. Reducing Regulatory Burdens - Interagency working group – Establishes an Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and OSTP-led interagency working group to reduce administrative burdens on federally-funded researchers. - Obsolete reporting requirements – Repeals obsolete federal agency reporting requirements as well as previous authorizations for programs that have not been implemented. Science, Technology, Engineering, Mathematics (STEM) Education - Outside advisory panel – Authorizes a STEM education advisory panel of outside experts to help guide federal STEM education program decision making. - Expands opportunities for women – Expands NSF grant programs to increase participation and expand STEM opportunities to women and other under-represented groups. Manufacturing, Commercialization, and Leveraging the Private Sector - Crowdsourcing Science – Expands opportunities for crowdsourcing research input and citizen science participation by organizations and individuals. - Manufacturing – Updates NIST’s Hollings Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP) Program for small and medium sized businesses by adjusting the federal cost-share requirement and implementing new accountability and oversight requirements. - Promoting entrepreneurship – Authorizes and expands NSF’s Innovation Corps program to promote entrepreneurship and commercialization education, training, and mentoring of federally-funded researchers. - Commercialization grants – Authorizes and expands grants to promote the commercialization of federally-funded research. ###
06.23.2016	06.23.16 Gardner Announces BOR Grants for Colorado Water Projects Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the below statement following the Bureau of Reclamation’s (BOR) announcement to award four separate grants for water projects in various Colorado communities. According to the BOR, the Cottonwood Water and Sanitation District in Englewood will receive $300,000 to build a biological treatment system in conjunction with the Arapahoe County Water and Wastewater Authority; the Grand Valley Water Users Association in Grand Junction will receive $300,000 to install a liner in the Government Highline Canal Top to “improve hydraulic efficiency;” the Larimer and Weld Irrigation Company will receive $1,000,000 to improve their water delivery systems; and the Uncompahgre Valley Water Users Association in Montrose will receive $1,000,000 to install a hydroelectric facility for the South Canal Hydropower Development Project. “I am pleased four Colorado communities will receive grants for water projects across the state,” said Gardner. “It’s vital our local communities are given the resources they need to best serve Coloradans. I will continue to be a voice for Colorado at the federal level and advocate on behalf of our state and local governments.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
06.23.2016	06.23.16 Gardner Introduces the American Innovation and Competitiveness Act WASHINGTON, D.C.– U.S. Sens. Cory Gardner (R-Colo.) and Gary Peters (D-Mich.), leaders of the Commerce Committee’s innovation and competitiveness working group on federal science and technology research policies, along with Sens. John Thune (R-S.D.) and Bill Nelson (D-Fla.) who serve respectively as the chair and ranking member of the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, introduced S. 3084, the American Innovation and Competitiveness Act. The bipartisan bill maximizes basic research by reducing administrative burdens for researchers, enhancing agency oversight, improving research dissemination, and reforming federal science agencies to increase the impact of taxpayer-funded research. “Our country is at its best when the entrepreneurial spirit has the ability to thrive and Americans have the tools they need to succeed,” said Gardner. “In order for America to remain competitive, it’s essential that we efficiently and effectively invest in research so that our country’s brightest minds can create and develop. It’s also critical that we expand educational opportunities and recognize the importance of equipping the next generation of leaders with STEM skills so that America not only keeps pace with the rest of the world, but remains the leading innovator. I was proud to lead multiple roundtables and working groups and gather crucial feedback from the science, education, and business communities in order to develop comprehensive science and technology policy that will strengthen our economy and create good-paying jobs. The American Innovation and Competitiveness Act is the product of a strong, bipartisan effort that I was proud to champion, and I thank Chairman Thune for his leadership and Senator Peters and Ranking Member Nelson for their support and hard work throughout this process. This legislation is a positive step toward keeping America competitive, and I look forward to a full and open debate.” “Federal investments in research and development help spur innovation and drive the new industries that will discover the next big thing,” said Peters, the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Space, Science and Competitiveness. “I’m proud to join my colleagues in introducing this bipartisan bill that promotes science and research, strengthens innovation and advanced manufacturing, grows our skilled workforce and enhances American competitiveness around the world.” “The American Innovation and Competitiveness Act gives new direction to maximize returns on federal research,” said Thune. “Sen. Gardner and Sen. Peters rolled up their sleeves to gather necessary input for a pro-science, pro-taxpayer bill. I’m pleased the committee will soon have an opportunity to consider this important legislation.” “Scientific research fuels our imagination and energizes the American economy," said Nelson. "This legislation will help keep our federal science agencies on track toward the next amazing scientific discovery." S. 3084 most directly affects programs within the National Science Foundation (NSF), National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), and the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP). Last July, Sens. Gardner and Peters kicked off efforts to build a consensus way forward for federal research policies. Their competitiveness working group held three roundtables with research community stakeholders and collected hundreds of submissions and comments sent to SciencePolicy@commerce.senate.gov to inform the group’s work. In May, the Commerce Committee held a formal hearing with research community witnesses who praised the committee for its efforts to build a bipartisan consensus. Said former National Science Board official Dr. Kelvin Droegemeier in hearing testimony: “This committee has already addressed one of the greatest long-term threats to American innovation: You’ve made science bipartisan again, countering rhetoric that has at times made the research community feel under siege.” S. 3084 will be considered by the Commerce Committee at a markup scheduled for June 29, 2016, at 10:00 a.m. Click here for the text of S. 3084 as introduced. Highlights of S. 3084, the American Innovation and Competitiveness Act Maximizing Basic Research - Peer review – Reaffirms the NSF’s merit-based peer review process for determining grants. - Broadening research opportunities – Updates and renames NSF’s Experimental Program to Stimulate Competitive Research (EPSCoR) for underutilized regions to reflect its established record. - Cybersecurity research – Directs research to help better protect computer systems from cyber threats. - Transparency and accountability – Codifies reforms to increase transparency and accountability in the National Science Foundation (NSF) grantmaking process. - Oversight implementation – Requires NSF to address concerns about waste and abuse by improving oversight of large research facility construction, updates a conflicts of interest policy, and reforms management of the Antarctic research program. Reducing Regulatory Burdens - Interagency working group – Establishes an Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and OSTP-led interagency working group to reduce administrative burdens on federally-funded researchers. - Obsolete reporting requirements – Repeals obsolete federal agency reporting requirements as well as previous authorizations for programs that have not been implemented. Science, Technology, Engineering, Mathematics (STEM) Education - Outside advisory panel – Authorizes a STEM education advisory panel of outside experts to help guide federal STEM education program decision making. - Expands opportunities for women – Expands NSF grant programs to increase participation and expand STEM opportunities to women and other under-represented groups. Manufacturing, Commercialization, and Leveraging the Private Sector - Crowdsourcing Science – Expands opportunities for crowdsourcing research input and citizen science participation by organizations and individuals. - Manufacturing – Updates NIST’s Hollings Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP) Program for small and medium sized businesses by adjusting the federal cost-share requirement and implementing new accountability and oversight requirements. - Promoting entrepreneurship – Authorizes and expands NSF’s Innovation Corps program to promote entrepreneurship and commercialization education, training, and mentoring of federally-funded researchers. - Commercialization grants – Authorizes and expands grants to promote the commercialization of federally-funded research. ###
06.21.2016	06.21.16 Gardner, Colleagues Condemn Russian Aggression WASHINGTON, D.C.– U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO), David Perdue (R-GA), Ron Johnson (R-WI), Bob Menendez (D-NJ), Jim Risch (R-ID), and Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), all members of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, have introduced a bipartisan resolution that calls on Russia to cease provocative military maneuvers that endanger U.S. forces and calls on the U.S., its European allies, and the international community to continue to apply pressure on Moscow. “From invading Ukraine to provocative and reckless behavior directed at U.S. warships, Vladimir Putin’s Russia continues to incite instability in the global community and violate international law,” said Senator Gardner. “On a recent trip to Europe to discuss NATO readiness to counter the Russian threat, I met with European leaders, U.S. diplomats, and military personnel, and we all agreed on the need for strong U.S. leadership and enhanced presence in the face of Russia’s increasingly belligerent actions. As U.S. and NATO military leaders told me during my visit: ‘virtual presence is actual absence.’ The United States cannot lead from behind, and we must reassure our allies that the United States stands firmly behind its NATO commitment, including Article 5 of the NATO Charter regarding collective defense. The Obama Administration must hold Russia accountable and lead the effort to address Russia’s bad behavior.” “Under President Vladimir Putin, Russia has become increasingly assertive and aggressive militarily,” said Senator Perdue. “We’ve recently seen Russian military personnel taunting U.S. military units with provocative military maneuvers. Not only are these actions irresponsible, but they also endanger the lives of American and Russian soldiers alike and fly in the face of decades-long agreements between our two nations. Further, Russia continues to build up its military, cyber capabilities, and poses direct challenges to stated U.S. interests. Today, we come together to condemn Russia’s provocative and antagonistic behavior.” “I’m alarmed by Russia’s dangerous maneuvers directed at the U.S. military in international waters and airspace,” said Senator Johnson. “Russian President Vladimir Putin continues to demonstrate that he’s not looking for off-ramps that would de-escalate tensions with the West. He’s only looking for on-ramps to destabilize Europe and threaten the United States and our allies. We must make it clear that the U.S. stands firmly with our allies in the face of persistent Russian aggression.” “Russian President Vladimir Putin is once again flexing his muscles, clearly challenging the post-Cold War order, demanding a clear and consequential response to prevent him from continuing to threaten international order and stability,” said Senator Menendez. “As an author of effective sanctions in response to past Russian aggression, I join my colleagues in sending President Putin our unequivocal response: Continue Russian aggression, with violence against peaceful opposition, election-rigging, human rights abuses and corruption, international adventurism in Georgia, Ukraine, Syria, Iraq and elsewhere, and risk more isolation, more sanctions, and greater consequences. If President Putin continues to flex his muscles assuming there will be no consequences, he is mistaken.” “The United States and the international community must stand strong against Russian aggression and the Kremlin’s ongoing efforts to undermine the sovereignty of its neighbors,” said Senator Shaheen. “Moscow’s provocative actions now endanger U.S. and allied service members, and this is unacceptable. We strongly condemn Russia’s reckless actions, and we must not tolerate interference with the right of the United States and our allies to operate freely in international airspace and waters.” Russia has sought to reassert its dominance on the world stage by engaging in increasingly aggressive military behavior. These recent provocative military maneuvers, many of which have been directed specifically at the U.S., violate the 1972 agreement on Prevention of Incidents On and Over the High Seas. Meanwhile, Russia has begun significantly building up their military presence in Eastern Europe, which has prompted NATO to respond by positioning more than 4,000 additional troops to the region, including at least 1,000 U.S. service members. Further, the State Department has found that Russia is in continued violation of the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces (INF) Treaty. Russia has pushed the envelope for too long and the time has come for the U.S. express a formal condemnation of these actions as unsafe, unprofessional, unwarranted, and unacceptable. Specifically, the Senators’ resolution would: Condemn recent dangerous and unprofessional Russian intercepts of U.S.-flagged aircraft and vessels; Call on Russia to cease its provocative military maneuvers that endanger American and allied forces; Call on the U.S., European allies, and the international community to continue to apply pressure on the government of Russia to stop its provocative behavior; Reaffirm the right of the U.S. to operate military aircraft and vessels in international airspace and waters. ###
06.21.2016	06.21.16 Gardner Supports Mental Health Reform Act Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today cosponsored the Mental Health Reform Act, bipartisan legislation introduced by Senator Bill Cassidy (R-LA). The legislation strengthens federal mental health programs while also extending greater flexibility to states and local communities to enhance mental health services, supports expansion of innovative treatment options to improve mental health care, and increases access to behavioral health services. According to the National Alliance on Mental Illness, nearly one in five American adults suffer from mental illness each year and Colorado has felt the impact of its reach. Colorado alone lost 1,058 people to suicide last year, the highest number in the state’s history. The Mental Health Reform Act requires the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) to develop a strategy with measurable goals to report to Congress and also to encourage states to work together by allowing them to jointly apply for assistance with mental health and substance abuse block grants. The legislation also prioritizes mental health needs that are regionally significant and supports innovative treatment to improve mental health care by ensuring programs incorporate the latest evidence-based approaches to care in treatment plans. Additionally, the Mental Health Reform Act recognizes that support services for the homeless and underserved communities must be strengthened. “One fifth of American adults suffer from mental illness, and its impact extends far beyond those who are directly affected by it into our families and communities,” said Gardner. “The rise in the rate of suicide in Colorado is troubling, and signals that our mental health systems needs to be strengthened at the federal, state, and local levels. That means developing a federal strategy with measurable goals, encouraging the expansion of evidenced-based treatment, and providing states and localities with greater flexibility to treat mental illness. The Mental Health Reform Act is a positive step toward addressing the mental health crisis and finding solutions to help those who are suffering.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
06.20.2016	06.20.16 Gardner Votes to Protect 2nd Amendment, Prevent Terrorists From Purchasing Guns Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today voted in favor of an amendment to the Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies Appropriations bill that would prevent terrorists from purchasing guns while protecting 2nd Amendment rights. The amendment encourages enhanced coordination and information sharing among state, local, and federal law enforcement officials by creating a process to notify federal, state, and local law enforcement when an individual who has been investigated as a known or suspected terrorist in the past five years attempts to purchase a gun. The measure bolsters law enforcement detection by allowing the Attorney General to delay gun sales for up to three business days to anyone on FBI’s various watch lists. The Attorney General then has the opportunity to ask a court to determine if there is probable cause to believe that the individual has committed acts of terrorism or plans to in the future, and a judge can deny the sale of the firearm after due process. “Our country continues to mourn the victims of the horrific terror attack in Orlando, and I continue to pray for the families of the victims and all of those affected by this heartbreaking tragedy. While some have politicized the attack in Orlando, many of us have been focused on the problem at hand and real solutions to fix it. That includes acknowledging the enemy responsible for the worst terrorist attack on U.S. soil since 9/11 was the product of Islamic extremism,” said Gardner. “That’s why I voted to enhance communication and coordination among state, local, and federal officials to prevent terrorists from acquiring weapons, but also ensure due process and protect the 2nd Amendment rights of law-abiding gun owners. We need to work together to put forth policies designed to target and combat the true enemies at hand – ISIS and homegrown terrorism – and not those who lawfully purchase firearms and exercise their Constitutionally-protected rights.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
06.17.2016	06.17.16 Gardner, Bennet, and Local Communities Meet with FRA Administrator to Discuss Train Noise Northern Colorado – Today, Colorado U.S. Senators Michael Bennet and Cory Gardner, as well as Congressman Jared Polis and local community leaders, met with Federal Railroad Administrator Sarah Feinberg in Fort Collins and Loveland to discuss the agency's train horn rule and the need for more flexibility to establish quiet zones. Communities across Colorado have expressed concerns with the FRA's rules, which require trains to blow loud continuous horns through towns unless the communities meet rigid requirements for quiet zones. Since January 2013, the delegation has urged the FRA to reopen the rule and consider revisions to offer communities more flexibility to create quiet zones. In March, the FRA announced it would take public comments as it considers potential changes. The comment period closes on July 5, 2016. Bennet, Gardner, and Congressmen Jared Polis, Ken Buck, and Ed Perlmutter invited Feinberg to visit Colorado during the comment period to see firsthand how the train horn rule is affecting businesses and residents in the region. “Train horn noise causes serious problems for Colorado communities. It interferes with new businesses, residential development, and economic growth,” said Bennet. “For the past several years, we’ve worked with local leaders and the FRA to find commonsense solutions that acknowledge the important role railroads played in our state’s development while still providing communities with the flexibility that they need to grow. We’re grateful that the Administrator came to Colorado to see for herself the challenges cities and towns are facing, and we are hopeful she’ll incorporate what she has learned today into meaningful policy changes that balance safety concerns with quality of life.” “Train horn noise is a Washington-born problem in need of a local solution,” said Gardner. “This is yet another example of the failure of Washington’s one-size-fits-all approach. That’s why I invited FRA Administrator Feinberg to visit Colorado and hear from local officials firsthand about how to best preserve safety precautionary measures while simultaneously maintaining peace in their communities. I’m hopeful Administrator Feinberg found the visit insightful, and I urge her to consider Coloradans’ ideas moving forward.” The Administrator toured downtown Fort Collins with Bennet, Gardner, Polis, and local business owners and officials including Fort Collins Mayor Wade Troxell. Current train horn rules result in trains having to blow their horns continuously along the entire 10-block area through downtown – where the community has been working on economic revitalization. On the tour, the Administrator heard first-hand how the noise negatively affects everything from classes at Colorado State University to local businesses to residential development. She was also able to see the additional infrastructure Fort Collins has invested in to combat noise and traffic delays and to accommodate local mass transit projects. “The City is encouraged by the FRA’s willingness to come to Fort Collins and continue working with the state and municipalities regarding train horn noise in urban settings, which impacts our residents and businesses” said Fort Collins Mayor Wade Troxell. “Without compromising safety, we are looking for solutions for addressing the FRA’s horn rule to improve our community quality of life, health of our residents, and economic wellbeing of our businesses.” Bennet and Gardner also hosted a roundtable meeting in Loveland where Administrator Feinberg met with representatives from Fort Collins, Loveland, Longmont, Boulder, Greeley, Commerce City, Louisville, Berthoud, and Windsor to receive feedback on how current rules are working. Loveland City Council Member Joan Shaffer discussed the socioeconomic effects of the noise including how it relates to local businesses, quality of life, and economic revitalization of downtown areas. Gerry Horak, Executive Director of the North Front Ranch Metropolitan Planning Organization, talked about the need for flexibility in the regulations to meet the needs of Colorado’s unique communities. Windsor Mayor Kristie Melendez highlighted the usefulness of quiet zones and the challenges in designating them. “Fort Collins, Loveland, and all of Northern Colorado are known as wonderful areas to reside and raise a family, but the train horns are a nuisance - nearly everyone agrees,” said Polis. “I'm relieved that the Federal Railroad Administration is finally willing to hear directly from the community about the unbearable noise. While listening is a necessary first step, I commit to persisting until the Federal Railroad Administration takes action and removes unreasonable barriers to Quiet Zones.” "Loveland has been at the forefront of the Train Horn noise issue for a long time,” said Loveland Mayor Cecil Gutierrez. “We are pleased that FRA Administrator Feinberg is visiting Loveland and Northern Colorado for a firsthand view of the issues we face. We believe that there are solutions for maintaining safety at our crossings without the negative impacts currently being experienced by our citizens. We are eager to be active partners in crafting creative, flexible, and affordable solutions." Colorado communities not able to attend today’s meeting have until July 5 to submit comments on changes they would like FRA to consider. # # #
06.17.2016	06.17.16 Gardner, Hatch, Johnson Introduce Amendment to Provide Life-Saving Treatment to Epilepsy Patients Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), along with Senators Orrin Hatch (R-UT) and Ron Johnson (R-WI), introduced an amendment to the Commerce, Justice, and Science Appropriations bill that makes it explicit the federal government cannot prevent states from implementing any legislation that makes it lawful to possess, distribute, or use cannabidiol (CBD). Currently, nearly three million Americans suffer from a form of epilepsy that is characterized by uncontrollable seizures. These seizures, which can cause tremendous strain on families and patients, often result in serious physical problems including brain and other organ damage, decreased IQ, blindness, and even death. Oils derived from hemp plants low in tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and high in CBD, such as the commonly-known Charlotte’s Web, have been shown to greatly reduce seizures in affected individuals. These oils have less than 0.3 percent THC, the psychoactive ingredient in cannabis, so patients receive the medicinal benefits of CBD without the side-effects of marijuana. Many states have enacted laws that now allow residents to use compounds from therapeutic hemp as medicine, but the plant and its derivatives remain prohibited by federal law. Gardner’s amendment prevents the federal government from taking any action to stop states from implementing legislation that legalizes CBD. “The states that allow access to CBD have already recognized the benefits that Congress has not: CBD is a harmless, natural oil that has the potential to save the lives of Americans who suffer from uncontrollable seizures,” said Gardner. “Families should not be faced with the choice of breaking the law or watching their loved ones suffer. My amendment recognizes this and allows states to implement laws that legalize CBD for those suffering, providing much-needed immediate access to life-saving seizure treatment.” There is evidence that CBD can have a significant positive impact on patients suffering from uncontrollable seizures. Charlotte Figi, a young girl diagnosed with Dravet’s syndrome living in Colorado, was suffering from 1200 grand mal seizures per month before gaining access to CBD-rich therapeutic hemp. Traditional medicines failed her and caused brain damage, but with CBD treatment she now experiences only two per month with no other therapy. “Cannabidiol has been shown to dramatically reduce seizures in children with intractable epilepsy. At the same time, it does not produce any sort of ‘high’ because the THC content is so low. This amendment will ensure that federal officials do not block state efforts to allow parents to obtain cannabidiol for their suffering children. It puts federalism—and families—first,” Hatch said. “I have heard powerful stories from Wisconsin families and others from across the country with young children suffering from devastating seizure disorders who have experienced the positive effects of CBD. This is a compound that has therapeutic uses, and families should have the freedom to gain informed access. This amendment will help ensure that access,” Johnson said. ###
06.14.2016	06.14.16 Gardner Statement on Appeals Court Ruling on Net Neutrality Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), a member of the Senate Committee on Commerce, Transportation, and Science, today released the below statement after the Washington, D.C. federal appeals court upheld the Federal Communication Commission’s (FCC) Open Internet Order: “I’m disappointed the D.C. Circuit Court upheld the FCC’s reclassification of the Internet, which threatens innovation and progress in the expansion of broadband Internet access. The FCC’s rule not only circumvents the lawmaking process, but also the very people who are responsible for the Internet’s evolution and success: entrepreneurs and its users. I’m hopeful the Supreme Court will recognize the Administration’s brazen abuse of power and overreach, and overturn the FCC’s misguided rule.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
06.14.2016	06.14.16 Gardner, Warner Announce Launch of Bipartisan Senate Cybersecurity Caucus Washington, DC – At an American Enterprise Institute event today on Capitol Hill, U.S. Sens. Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Mark R. Warner (D-VA) announced the creation of the Senate Cybersecurity Caucus to provide a platform for Senators and their staffs to stay informed on major policy issues and developments in cybersecurity. “As the cyber threat continues to evolve, so must our strategy,” said Sen. Gardner, Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. “ Rifle shots targeting a massive, growing problem have fallen well-short of sufficient. We need a grand strategy to combat positively identified bad actors, and that requires a broad policy response that is adaptable to technological developments and the ever-changing cyber field. The goal of the Senate Cybersecurity Caucus is to jumpstart discussions about how to best address the cybersecurity challenges we face, and I’m hopeful my colleagues will recognize this caucus’ role in strengthening our national security and join us. We need a whole of government approach to cyber, and this effort will start focusing cyber policy on the full spectrum of threats and opportunities.” “Cybersecurity is one of the most serious economic and national security challenges we face as a nation, and both the private and the public sector need to be better prepared to address the escalating threat from cyberattacks. So far this Congress, nine Senate committees have held hearings on this issue, focusing on aspects as diverse as protecting taxpayer information from cyber theft, the development of deterrent technologies targeted at foreign actors, and the need to secure our infrastructure against intrusion. These hearings provide useful insight into the many aspects of our cyber vulnerability,” said Sen. Warner, a former technology executive and member of the Senate Intelligence Committee. “However, the attack surface is rapidly expanding, and the cyber threat is a systemic one. We are launching the Senate Cybersecurity Caucus as a platform to engage in holistic discussions about cybersecurity across Committee jurisdictions, and to keep Senators and their staffs up-to-date on new cyber developments.” The caucus will focus on various aspects of the cybersecurity problem, including impacts on national security, the economy, and digital security. The caucus will provide unique opportunities to inform Senators on the major cyber policy issues facing Congress, introduce Senators and their staff to leading cybersecurity experts, and promote bipartisan and cross-jurisdictional discussions on this important issue. Cyberattacks account for up to $120 billion in economic and intellectual property loss annually in the United States and cost the average American firm more than $15 million per year, according to experts. Additionally, consumer concerns about cybersecurity are increasingly impacting the growth of the digital economy. Survey research from NTIA just last month indicated that 45% of households reported that concerns about online privacy and security stopped them from conducting financial transactions, engaging in e-commerce, or posting on social networks. As Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy, Sen. Gardner has been a leader on cybersecurity issues. Gardner’s North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act, which was signed into law by President Obama, requires the President to submit a strategy to counter North Korean cyber-related attacks and impose U.S. sanctions on cybercriminals. Gardner’s bill is the first piece of legislation approved by Congress to impose mandatory sanctions on cybercriminals, which is a drastic new direction away from the current discretionary sanctions. Gardner also authored an amendment to the U.S. Department of State Authorization Act of 2017 that requires the State Department to regularly report on the U.S.-China cyber agreement. Additionally, Gardner recently introduced an amendment to protect the Department of Defense (DoD) against cyber threats, and chaired a Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee hearing examining China’s activity in cyberspace. An early investor in the cellular telephone business, Sen. Warner spent 20 years in the technology industry before entering public office. In the Senate, Warner has been a leader on issues relating to technology and cybersecurity. In the aftermath of the Target breach that exposed the debit and credit card information of 40 million customers, Sen. Warner chaired the first congressional hearing in February 2014 on protecting consumer data from the threat posed by hackers targeting retailers’ online systems. Last year, he teamed up with Rep. Mike McCaul (R-TX) and Sen. Gardner on a bipartisan proposal to establish an independent National Commission on Security and Technology Challenges to bring together all stakeholders, including tech leaders, law enforcement, the intelligence community, privacy and civil liberties advocates, computer science researchers, and global commerce leaders, to make recommendations for maintaining privacy and digital security while also finding ways to keep criminals and terrorists from exploiting these technologies to escape justice. ###
06.14.2016	06.14.16 NDAA Includes Gardner Amendment That Paves the Way for Assured Access to Space Washington, DC – The U.S. Senate today approved S.2943, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (NDAA), which provides funding for the Department of Defense (DoD), with broad bipartisan support. The NDAA included language Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Bill Nelson (D-FL) authored that allows for the DoD to purchase rockets from any certified launch provider between now and December 31, 2022 so long as the provider offers the best value to the DoD. “I’m proud that the Senate came together to ensure DoD has access to launch vehicles that it can afford,” said Gardner. “My amendment to the NDAA promotes competition by requiring the DoD to purchase rockets from certified providers that offer the best possible value. It also protects our national security by ensuring the DoD has the resources it needs to continue space exploration, which includes the ability to conduct a fair and open contracting process among certified launch providers.” Gardner’s fiscally responsible amendment to the NDAA promotes competition, protects our national security, and paves the way for assured access to space, which is critical to the detection of missiles, transmitting secure communication, and gathering intelligence. It is estimated that the amendment could potentially save the DoD as much as $5 billion. Gardner added, “At a time when the United States is facing evolving threats and security challenges in the homeland and around the globe, it is more critical now than ever that we take every step necessary to bolster our defense. I urge the President to sign the NDAA, not only because it supports our troops and their families, but also because it provides our military with the resources and tools it needs to remain competitive and protect the United States.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
06.13.2016	06.13.16 Gardner Statement on North Korea’s Cyber Attack on the Defense Industry Washington, DC– Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statement following reports that North Korean hackers obtained more than 40,000 documents, including blueprints to U.S. fighter jets, in a cyberattack on the defense industry. “Today’s news is further evidence that North Korea’s cyber capabilities are growing and present an evolving threat to the United States and its allies,” said Gardner. “It is outrageous that given the gravity of the threat and the brazenness of the North Korean regime, the Obama Administration has failed to impose sanctions on North Korean cyber criminals, as required under my North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act. I call on the Administration to do so immediately and to present a strategy to address North Korean cyber threats as soon as possible, actions that my bill requires and the Administration has not yet completed. The United States must act swiftly to apply additional pressure on the regime to deter its growing belligerence in cyberspace and elsewhere.” Gardner’s North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act (NKSPEA), which was signed into law by President Obama, requires the President to submit a strategy to counter North Korean cyber-related attacks and impose U.S. sanctions on cybercriminals, within 90 days of the bill becoming law. The legislation also imposes mandatory sanctions on individuals who contribute to North Korea’s nuclear program and proliferation activities, malicious cyberattacks, censorship of its citizens, and the regime’s continued human rights abuses. It is the first piece of legislation approved by Congress to impose mandatory sanctions on cybercriminals, which is a drastic new direction away from the current discretionary sanctions. The Administration, however, has not sanctioned any cybercriminals to date, nor has the Administration submitted a strategy to counter North Korean cyberattacks. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
06.12.2016	06.12.16 Gardner Statement on Orlando Terrorist Attack Washington, DC - Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the below statement following the deadly shooting in Orlando, Florida: "Jaime and I are mourning the lives lost in Orlando and are praying for the wounded. Our hearts ache for the families of the victims. Americans will stand united against this deadly act of terror." ###
06.09.2016	06.09.16 Gardner Joins Colleagues to Block DOL’s Overtime Rule Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the below statement following the introduction of a Congressional Review Act resolution of disapproval regarding the Department of Labor’s (DOL) new overtime rule. Gardner is an original cosponsor of the resolution. “The Department of Labor’s overtime rule will hurt Coloradans and Americans throughout the country, in particular small businesses and non-profits, and significantly reduce flexibility in the work schedule,” said Gardner. “I continue to meet with numerous small business owners across Colorado who worry about the impact this rule will have on their employees and ability to remain viable. Once again, the Obama Administration is imposing its one-size-fits-all approach to regulation, and it will undoubtedly hurt the very people it was designed to protect. After eight years of slow economic growth under President Obama, the last thing this country needs is more burdensome regulation. I will continue to work to get Washington out of the way and allow small businesses do what they do best: create jobs.” The DOL released the final rule in May and mandated that it will go into effect December 1, 2016. The new regulation will double the threshold for overtime pay and tie future increases to inflation without the opportunity for a public comment period. Gardner has long opposed the DOL’s overtime rule, and in March, he cosponsored the Protecting Workplace Advancement and Opportunity Act to delay the DOL from issuing its final overtime rule. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
06.08.2016	06.08.16 Gardner Concludes Visit With Asian Allies Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy, concluded a Congressional delegation visit to the Republic of Korea, Burma, Singapore, Taiwan, and Japan. Gardner met with high-ranking government officials and military commanders in the region to discuss political, economic, and security issues impacting U.S. relations in the Pacific region. While in the Republic of Korea, Gardner met with Defense Minister Han Min Koo, National Security Advisor Kim Kwan-jin, and Vice Minister of Foreign Affairs Lim as well as Commander of United States Forces Korea (USFK), General Vincent Brooks. Gardner also participated in a roundtable with the Asan Institute for Policy Studies that focused on strengthening U.S. alliances in the region and confronting threats to peace and stability. Additionally, Gardner spoke with a recent, high-level defector to discuss North Korea’s advancement in military technology and the suppression of the North Korean people by the current regime. Additional highlights from the visit include Gardner’s meetings in Burma with State Counselor and Minister of Foreign Affairs Aung San Suu Kyi, President Htin Kyaw, and Burma’s Commander-in-Chief, Senior General Min Aung Hlaing. Gardner has been outspoken in encouraging Burma’s democratic transition and welcomed the swearing in of President Htin Kyaw as the first civilian president in more than 50 years. Gardner also participated in the Shangri-La Dialogue in Singapore, where he met a number of regional leaders, and traveled to Taiwan and met with President Tsai Ing-wen. Earlier this year, Gardner introduced legislation that requires the State Department to develop a strategy that would allow Taiwan the opportunity to participate in the vital work of the International Criminal Police Organization (INTERPOL). The President signed Gardner’s legislation into law in March. “I appreciated the opportunity to meet with top government officials and military commanders to discuss economic and security challenges in the Pacific region and the role of the United States in addressing them,” said Gardner. “In South Korea, military experts and government leaders echoed many of my grave concerns regarding North Korea’s recent ballistic missile tests and continued aggression. South Korean leaders were encouraged by the implementation of my North Korea Sanctions legislation, but urged additional pressure on the regime. I reiterated my commitment to working to ensure the Obama Administration fully implements the sanctions outlined in my legislation, including sanctions against human rights violators and individuals responsible for malicious cyber-attacks.” Gardner introduced the North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act (NKSPEA), which was signed into law by President Obama earlier this year. The NKSPEA imposes mandatory sanctions on individuals who contribute to North Korea’s nuclear program and proliferation activities, malicious cyberattacks, censorship of its citizens, and the regime’s continued human rights abuses. The Treasury Department began implementing Gardner’s bill in March, shortly after it was signed into law, and most recently designated North Korea as a “primary concern for money laundering.” Gardner has urged additional sanctions to counter North Korea’s recent ballistic missile tests, and also acted to bolster U.S. missile defense capabilities by introducing an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) that calls for the deployment of the Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) missile defense system in South Korea to protect our ally and the 28,500 American servicemen and women stationed in South Korea. Gardner added, “As Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cyber Security Policy, I look forward to continuing to work with our allies in the region to address the challenges impacting the Pacific and the U.S. relationship.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
06.07.2016	06.07.16 Gardner Introduces Amendment to Promote Competition, Control Costs, Protect National Security Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) joined Senator Bill Nelson (D-FL) today in introducing an amendment (4509) to S.2943, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (NDAA), which provides funding for the Department of Defense (DoD). The measure would allow for the DoD to purchase rockets from any certified launch provider between now and December 31, 2022 so long as the provider offers the best value to the DoD. The amendment promotes competition and protects our national security by paving the way for assured access to space. At the same time, the amendment ensures fiscal responsibility as it has the potential to save DoD up to $5 billion. “The DoD must have access to launch vehicles that it can afford,” said Gardner. “My amendment promotes competition and acknowledges the difficult fiscal environment by requiring the DoD to purchase rockets from certified providers that offer the best possible value. It also protects our national security by ensuring continued access to space, which is critical to the detection of missiles, transmitting secure communication, and gathering intelligence. In order for the United States to remain competitive when it comes to space exploration, the DoD should have the ability to conduct a fair and open contracting process that allows any certified launch provider to compete.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
06.06.2016	06.06.16 Gardner Introduces Bill to Allow Florissant Fossil Beds National Monument Acquire Private Land Donation Bill Increases Wildfire Protections, Expands Recreational Opportunities and Habitat for Wildlife Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today introduced legislation that would permit a private landowner to donate land to Florissant Fossil Beds National Monument in Teller County, CO, allowing for enhanced wildfire protection as well as additional habitat for wildlife and recreational opportunities for visitors. A private landowner submitted a proposal to donate 280 acres of land adjacent to Florissant Fossil Beds Monument, but due to current law the land transfer cannot take place. The park, which currently possesses 5,998 acres of land, has a legislative ceiling of 6,000 acres. Therefore, if acquired, the 280-acre parcel of land would project the park above its legal threshold. “This generous private landowner’s donation at Florissant Fossil Beds National Monument will lead to stronger wildfire protection for the park as well as provide additional recreational opportunities for its visitors and habitat for its wildlife,” said Gardner. “My legislation amends current law to adjust the acreage ceiling, allowing for the donation of adjacent land to the park. It’s commonsense, and I urge my colleagues to support it.” Established as a national monument in 1969, the Florissant Fossil Beds National Monument is located west of Pikes Peak and less than 40 miles from Colorado Springs, CO. The park is home to diverse fossil deposits, maintaining a collection of over 12,000 specimens. The park also provides recreational experiences and curriculum-based education programs for its visitors. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
06.06.2016	06.06.16 Gardner Statement on Massive Plan Cancellations, Premium Increases in Colorado Colorado Division of Insurance Confirms More Than 90,000 People will Lose Plans in 2017 Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statement after the Colorado Division of Insurance confirmed four insurance companies will reduce the number of individual health care plans or stop offering them entirely next year, and several companies will significantly raise their premiums for 2017. “Coloradans across the state are once again being forced to confront the ugly reality of President Obama’s disastrous Affordable Care Act. The Colorado Division of Insurance announced today Coloradans may potentially see premium increases as high as 40.6% on the individual market, while 92,000 more must find a new plan, as their current ones are being canceled. The impact of Obamacare will force approximately 20% of Coloradans that purchase insurance on the individual market to find a new plan,” said Gardner. In May, Coloradans learned that UnitedHealthcare and Humana will not offer individual plans in 2017, impacting approximately 20,000 Coloradans. Now, according to the Division of Insurance, approximately 92,000 people with individual plans from UnitedHealthcare, Humana, Rocky Mountain Health Plans (RMHP), and Anthem will be forced to find new plans for 2017. The Division of Insurance also confirmed that premiums may increase by as much as 40 percent. Gardner added, “When the President rammed his partisan healthcare law through Congress, he repeatedly promised the American people ‘if you like your plan, you can keep it.’ President Obama and those that supported this partisan law are now silent as 92,000 Coloradans must find a new insurance plan. The President also promised the average family of four would pay $2,500 less annually by the end of his first term, but has no answers for families in Colorado that will have to deal with these outrageous increases. While the President continues to sell the American people a myth that Obamacare is working, we know this simply is not true. It’s time for the President to admit Obamacare is a disaster for the American people. I will continue to work tirelessly to repeal and replace Obamacare with a patient-centered health care system that actually lowers costs and increases choice.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
06.02.2016	06.02.16 Gardner Statement on Financial Sanctions Against North Korea Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statement on the Treasury Department’s designation of North Korea as a “primary money laundering concern,” a move that will further isolate North Korea from the international financial system by prohibiting all direct and indirect contact of North Korea-linked entities with the U.S. financial system. Gardner’s North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act (NKSPEA), which was signed into law by President Obama, directed Treasury to determine whether North Korea merits a primary money laundering concern designation under Section 311 of the USA PATRIOT Act that aims to protect the U.S. financial system from foreign threats. The NKSPEA also imposes mandatory sanctions on individuals who contribute to North Korea’s nuclear program and proliferation activities, malicious cyberattacks, censorship of its citizens, and the regime’s continued human rights abuses. “I’m pleased the Treasury Department, as required by my bill, acted to apply additional pressure to North Korea through this important designation that will send a strong message to Pyongyang and its enablers,” said Gardner. “When I met with Treasury’s Acting Under Secretary Szubin to discuss the important role of U.S. sanctions, I urged him to fully implement NKSPEA, and particularly with regard to entities outside of North Korea whose illicit actions enable the regime's survival. I encourage Treasury to continue to vigorously pursue and implement additional sanctions outlined in my legislation, including designations against North Korea for cyberattacks and human rights violators.” The Treasury Department began implementing Gardner’s bill in March, shortly after it was signed into law. In April, Gardner met with Acting Under Secretary for Terrorism and Financial Intelligence Adam Szubin, who is the official primarily responsible for enforcing U.S. economic sanctions policy. As Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy, Gardner asked for status of the implementation of his North Korea sanctions legislation as well as Treasury’s actions to counter Iran’s recent ballistic missile tests and other nefarious activities. In light of North Korea’s recent ballistic missile tests, Gardner urged additional sanctions to counter the regime’s continued aggression. Gardner also acted to bolster U.S. missile defense capabilities by introducing an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) that calls for the deployment of the Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) missile defense system in South Korea to protect our ally and the 28,500 American servicemen and women stationed in South Korea. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
06.01.2016	06.01.16 Gardner Urges FCC to Further Advance 5G Mobile Connectivity Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), a member of the Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee, today sent a letter to Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Chairman Wheeler and Commissioners Clyburn, Rosenworcel, Pai, and O’Rielly regarding 5G mobile broadband service. Gardner urged the FCC to consider additional options to further mobile connectivity, helping to deploy the next generation of 5G technology to ensure the United States remains a global leader in broadband innovation. The letter reads in full: Dear Chairman Wheeler and Commissioners: I write today asking the Commission to issue a Further Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (FNPRM) that considers the possibility of extending Multichannel Video Distribution and Data Service (MVDDS) spectrum licensees the ability to use their 12.2-12.7 GHz holdings for 5G mobile broadband service. 5G mobile broadband service is the connectivity standard of the future. It will be significantly faster than existing 4G LTE technology, connect the ever-expanding Internet of Things, and provide consistent coverage in rural and urban areas alike, among other benefits. Given the possibility of such substantial improvements to mobile broadband, countries including the United Kingdom, Japan, and South Korea are actively working to deploy 5G networks faster than the United States, thereby endangering our position as the global leader in mobile communications connectivity. To date, dozens of American companies have invested considerable effort and resources into keeping the United States at the forefront of mobile broadband technology—I commend those ongoing investments. As we confront these mounting connectivity challenges, however, I believe the Commission should explore as many feasible options as possible for transitioning to 5G in order to keep the United States internationally competitive. That is why I am asking the Commission to issue this FNPRM at the meeting where it considers the pending Spectrum Frontiers proceeding, while taking care to address any potential interference concerns that may arise with the use of 12.2-12.7 GHz spectrum for 5G service. The United States must continue to lead the world in the next generation of 5G technology. I look forward to the Commission’s efforts to ensure we remain at the forefront of the mobile communications revolution and thank you for your consideration. If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact my Washington, D.C. office at (202) 224-5941. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
05.25.2016	05.25.16 Gardner Introduces Amendment in Support of Cheyenne Mountain Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) introduced an amendment to S.2943, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (NDAA), which provides funding for the Department of Defense (DoD). The amendment expresses that Cheyenne Mountain Air Force Station (CMAFS) is an indispensable national security asset that is essential to the defense of North America. A facility that operates as the alternate command control center for the North American Aerospace Defense Command (NORAD) and the United States Northern Command (NORTHCOM), Cheyenne Mountain facilitates integration with NORAD for defense of the homeland. The United States and Canada have both made significant and irreplaceable infrastructure investments to support NORAD and Cheyenne Mountain, and Cheyenne Mountain’s unique infrastructure allows for the daily and contingent operations at NORTHCOM. “The Cheyenne Mountain facility has played an essential role in our country’s national defense for decades,” said Gardner. “My amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act recognizes that Cheyenne Mountain is an asset to Colorado and North America and celebrates the facility’s contributions to protecting the homeland for the past 50 years. I will continue to do everything I can to support the base as well as the service members and civilians who work at Cheyenne Mountain.” Cheyenne Mountain celebrated its 50th anniversary in April. Gardner attended the anniversary celebration and also introduced a resolution celebrating the facility’s milestone. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
05.25.2016	05.25.16 Gardner Introduces Amendment to Protect DoD from Cyber Threats Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy, introduced an amendment to S.2943, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (NDAA), which provides funding for the Department of Defense (DoD). The amendment would require the Comptroller General of the United States to release a report on DoD’s telecommunications equipment that was purchased from suppliers tied to leading cyber-threat actors, which include Russia, China, Iran, and North Korea. The Director of National Intelligence James Clapper identified leading cyber-threat actors in an assessment released in February 2016 titled the “Worldwide Threat Assessment of the U.S. Intelligence Community.” “The United States must take every precaution to protect against cyber-crimes, particularly those originating from obvious bad actors like Iran and North Korea that have ramped up their malicious cyber activities,” said Gardner. “My amendment would expose if and what telecommunications equipment used by DoD was manufactured by companies with ties to countries that pose a significant cyber threat to the United States. It is simply commonsense to determine if leading cyber-threat actors may have access to sensitive government information – and my amendment would make sure of it.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
05.25.2016	05.25.16 Gardner Introduces Bill to Ease TSA Security Lines Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today introduced the Safe Convenient Reliable Efficient Effective Next-Generation Functional and Secure TSA (SCREEN FAST) Act, legislation that aims to ease the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) lines that are plaguing airports in Colorado, particularly Denver International Airport (DIA), and across the country while also preserving necessary safety measures. Airport security checkpoint lines at DIA and across America are growing, in part because the TSA has reduced its number of security screeners while air travel has increased by 9 percent during the same time period. Travelers are experiencing significant delays, and have been warned that security lines will only grow longer as we enter the Summer months. The SCREEN FAST Act would address both short-term and long-term concerns with TSA security lines at airports across the nation and is funded using existing TSA resources and airport reimbursements. The bill creates two pilot programs focused on increasing efficiency and security at airports and establishing prototypes for new and innovative screening techniques. It also directs the TSA to report to the Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation and House Homeland Security Committees on the pilot programs. Lastly, the SCREEN FAST Act makes it easier for airports to work with TSA when it comes to acquiring new equipment for screening. “I share frustration with Coloradans about growing security lines at airports across the country,” said Gardner. “My bill addresses TSA’s growing security lines and aims to find an innovative solution to streamline the security screening process so that it is more efficient, while also preserving the critical security function that must be incorporated into any legislative fix to TSA’s problem. I’m hopeful my colleagues will join me and support this commonsense legislation that would lead to a more effective TSA screening system and ultimately shorter airports security lines in Denver and throughout the country.” In April, Gardner introduced an amendment to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Reauthorization Act that would require TSA to establish a pilot program to improve the physical layout of security screening operations at airport. While it was not included in the overall bill that the Senate approved, Gardner is hopeful that the conferees who are ironing out the differences between the House and Senate bills will incorporate his provision in the final product that we send to the President. Additionally, the Senate approved Gardner-supported language that allows streamlined access to TSA PreCheck, which would help to shorten security lines at DIA and other airports around the country. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
05.25.2016	05.25.16 Gardner Amendment Urges Bolstered Missile Defense System in South Korea Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) introduced an amendment to S.2943, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (NDAA), which provides funding for the Department of Defense (DoD). The amendment recognizes the growing threat North Korea’s ballistic missile program poses to South Korea, and calls for strengthening the United States’ existing missile defense capabilities in South Korea to protect the 28,500 American servicemen and women stationed in South Korea, our allies, and Americans abroad. Specifically, the amendment expresses support for the deployment of the Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) missile defense system, which will complement and significantly bolster existing missile defense technology. The amendment follows recent rocket launches, including a ballistic missile test from a submarine, that highlight North Korea’s growing provocative actions. According to reports, South Korea has fielded 700 short-range ballistic missiles, 200 medium-range ballistic missiles, and 100 intermediate-range ballistic missiles. Last year, Gardner visited South Korea and had the opportunity to meet with President Park Geun-hye and discuss the North Korean threat. “North Korea’s growing number of ballistic missile launches must be met with additional action from the United States in the form of bolstered defense for our ally, South Korea, and Americans abroad,” said Gardner. “My amendment would strengthen existing missile defense capabilities on the South Korean peninsula, and send yet another signal to the maniac in Pyongyang that the United States will not stand by as it bullies its neighbors and threatens stability in the region.” Gardner, Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy, authored the North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act, legislation that President Obama signed into law earlier this year. The North Korea Sanctions Policy and Enhancement Act imposes mandatory sanctions on individuals who contribute to North Korea’s nuclear program and proliferation activities, malicious cyberattacks, censorship of its citizens, and the regime’s continued human rights abuses. This legislation is the first passed by Congress to impose mandatory sanctions on cybercriminals, a drastic new direction away from the current discretionary sanctions. In March, the Administration began implementing sanctions outlined in Gardner’s bill and in April, Gardner met with the lead Treasury Department official responsible for enforcing sanctions against North Korea and urged the application of sanctions on foreign entities that contribute to North Korea’s illicit activites. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
05.25.2016	05.25.16 Gardner Introduces Measure to Send ISIS Fighters to GTMO Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) joined Senator Steve Daines (R-MT) in introducing an amendment to S.2943, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (NDAA), which provides funding for the Department of Defense (DoD). The amendment urges the transfer of detained ISIS fighters to the Guantanamo Bay detention facility in Cuba, and follows a recent announcement that U.S. Special Forces captured an ISIS leader while carrying out Operation Resolve. “The Obama Administration lacks a coherent strategy to defeat ISIS, and that’s why it’s more important now than ever that we capitalize on our intelligence-gathering tools, such as the detention facility in Guantanamo Bay,” said Gardner. “Instead of closing the prison, the Administration should transfer detained ISIS fighters to Guantanamo Bay.” Gardner has worked to find additional legislative solutions to block the transfer of Guantanamo Bay detainees to the United States. Last week, Gardner introduced an amendment to the Transportation, and Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies (THUD) Appropriations Act that would prohibit the use of funds to transfer Guantanamo Bay detainees from Guantanamo Bay, Cuba to the United States using our airspace. Recently, Gardner joined his GOP colleagues in introducing legislation that would prevent the transfer or release of Guantanamo Bay detainees to global terror havens, including all countries designated by the United States Department of State as state sponsors of terrorism, currently Iran, Syria, and Sudan. Current U.S. law already prohibits transfers to Yemen, Libya, Somalia, and Syria, but not to Iran and Sudan, where 14 detainees have been transferred over the past decade. In March, Gardner introduced a resolution formally rejecting President Obama’s plan to transfer prisoners from the Guantanamo Bay detention facilities to an alternate location in American communities, which is explicitly prohibited by law. Gardner is also a cosponsor of the Naval Station Guantanamo Bay Protection Act, a bill that stops the President from terminating or modifying the Naval Base at Guantanamo Bay’s lease without Congressional approval. Gardner continues to meet with Coloradans and local law enforcement across the state who are opposed to moving terrorists from Guantanamo Bay to not only Colorado, but anywhere in the United States. In March, Gardner hosted a town hall in Florence, Colorado focused on national security issues that was attended by local elected officials, including members of the law enforcement community, and other local leaders to discuss issues including the potential transfer of Guantanamo Bay detainees to Colorado and the growing instability in the Middle East. Gardner discussed his visit to the Guantanamo Bay detention facility and reiterated his opposition to the transfer of the detainees to American soil. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
05.25.2016	05.25.16 Gardner Introduces Measure to Slow Iran’s Ballistic Missile Program Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today joined Senator Kelly Ayotte (R-NH) in introducing an amendment to S.2943, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (NDAA), which provides funding for the Department of Defense (DoD). The amendment sanctions individuals who directly or indirectly contribute to Iran’s ballistic missile program as well as entities controlled by Iran’s key ballistic missile organizations. In October of 2012, President Obama stated, “Our goal is to get Iran to recognize it needs to give up its nuclear program and abide by the U.N. Resolutions that have been in place.” However, instead of achieving the stated goal, the Iran nuclear deal does just the opposite and provides Iran with a patient pathway to a nuclear bomb in as few as 15 years. The deal also allows conventional arms sales to resume in less than five years and ballistic missiles sales to resume in less than eight years. Prior to the Iran deal’s implementation, the Administration promised action in response to Iran’s bad behavior, including its ballistic missile program. In a September 2015 letter to Members of Congress, Secretary Kerry stated, “We will also continue to use the full range of tools at our disposal to counter Iran’s missile program.” In March, Iran tested ballistic missiles, including two with the words “Israel must be wiped off the earth.” However, despite Iran’s increasingly belligerent behavior, the Administration has not acted to counter it, and there have even been reports that the Administration may ramp up sanctions relief by providing Iran access to the U.S. dollar. “The President’s deal with Iran has empowered a murderous regime that continues to threaten our closest ally, Israel, and demonstrate that it is determined to achieve a nuclear bomb,” said Gardner. “Instead of reportedly sweetening sanctions relief, the Obama Administration must make good on its promise to use the tools at its disposal to react to Iran’s bad behavior. This amendment follows multiple ballistic missile tests from Iran, and sanctions individuals connected to Iran’s ballistic missile program with the goal of changing the behavior of both those who contribute directly and indirectly to Iran’s nefarious activities. I’ll continue to work to strengthen sanctions against the regime, and protect our friends in Israel.” A member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Gardner has been a vocal opponent of the President’s deal with Iran. Before the deal was reached, Gardner warned about the dangers of a nuclear Iran, and denounced the deal. After reports of Iranian violations of U.N. sanctions, Gardner sent a letter to President Obama asking for a response to Iran’s violations. On the floor of the Senate, Gardner spoke out about the troubling aspects of the deal and urged his colleagues to reject it. In October, Gardner asked Secretary Kerry whether the Administration believed Iranian ballistic missile launches violated a U.N. ban, and in December, Gardner urged action against Iran for its repeated violations of ballistic missile test bans. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
05.24.2016	05.24.16 Gardner Introduces Amendment to Pave the Way for New Development of Commerce City Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today introduced the Rocky Mountain Arsenal National Wildlife Refuge Amendment to S.2943, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (NDAA), which provides funding for the Department of Defense (DoD). The Rocky Mountain Arsenal National Wildlife Refuge Amendment would remove deed restrictions, which currently prohibit the development of things like transportation infrastructure, retail and housing properties, on land that Commerce City, CO purchased in the 2000s. The land was formerly a U.S. Army chemical weapons manufacturing facility, but has since been cleaned up and a Wildlife Refuge was established. The Gardner amendment would change current law to allow restrictions on the deed to be removed or modified if a risk assessment conducted under federal environmental law proves that the property is safe for development. Similar language authored by Rep. Ed Perlmutter (CO-07) was included in the House-passed National Defense Authorization Act. “Commerce City should have the authority to fully develop the land it purchased nearly a decade ago to boost its local economy and retain and attract residents to the community,” said Gardner. “My amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act alters current law to allow Commerce City to do just that, so long as a risk assessment under federal environmental law confirms the property is safe for development.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
05.24.2016	05.24.16 Gardner Announces $1 Million in Wildland Fire Resiliency Funds for Southwest Colorado Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today announced the U.S. Department of Interior (DOI) is granting $1,029,618 to Southwest Colorado for wildland fire resiliency projects. “I welcome the news that Southwest Colorado will receive over $1 million for wildland fire resiliency projects,” said Gardner. “Funding for wildfire resiliency has always been a priority of mine because it can preempt catastrophic fires that threaten our communities. I will continue to serve as a voice for Colorado communities and work to ensure our state and localities have the proper resources to serve Coloradans.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
05.24.2016	05.24.16 Gardner to Welcome FRA Administrator to the Front Range to Discuss Train Horn Rule Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today announced that Sarah Feinberg, Administrator of the Federal Railroad Administration, will visit Colorado on June 17th. In addition to their discussions, Gardner formally invited Administrator Feinberg in December and in April to visit Colorado and meet with members of local communities to discuss the impact of train horn noise throughout the state. In March, the FRA reopened the train horn rule for a public comment period of 120 days before the FRA will make a final decision on whether or not to change the existing rule. The current train horn rule went into effect in 2005, and has had a significant negative impact on Colorado communities. “I welcome Administrator Feinberg’s visit to Colorado and appreciate her willingness to meet with my constituents, particularly those on the Front Range, who are impacted by the FRA’s train horn noise regulation,” said Gardner. “As the FRA continues its retrospective review of the train horn rule, I urge the FRA to take into consideration the unique circumstances facing Colorado cities and towns with rail lines.” Gardner has long advocated for the FRA to consider the train horn rule’s impact on Colorado. In December, he sent a letter to Administrator Feinberg expressing disappointment the agency denied a quiet-zone waiver for Fort Collins and asked the FRA to reopen the train horn rule. He later sent a letter on December 18, 2015 asking the Administrator to meet with Front Range communities that have been impacted by the rule, and followed up with another letter in April thanking the FRA for reconsidering the train horn rule and again requesting that the Administrator visit Colorado. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
05.24.2016	05.24.16 Gardner Introduces Measure to Prevent Transfer of GTMO Detainees to U.S. Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) joined Senator Jerry Moran (R-KS) in introducing an amendment to S.2943, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (NDAA), which provides funding for the Department of Defense (DoD). The NDAA contains language that affords DoD flexibility to use its funding for designing and planning for modifications to potential relocation sites for Guantanamo Bay detainees within the United States. Current law plainly prohibits any taxpayer resources to transfer or assist in the transfer of Guantanamo Bay detainees to the United States homeland. Several Obama Administration officials, including Department of Defense Secretary Ash Carter and Attorney General Loretta Lynch, have acknowledged this fact. Gardner’s amendment strikes Section 1023 of the NDAA, thus retaining current law that prohibits the DoD from using any resources to assist in the transfer of Guantanamo Bay detainees to an alternative location. “It’s outrageous that the National Defense Authorization Act would give the Obama Administration the means to assist in the transfer of Guantanamo Bay detainees to the United States, a move that is rejected by Coloradans and Americans across the country,” said Gardner. “My amendment to this legislation strikes this ill-conceived provision, which means that the DoD would still be prohibited from using any taxpayer resources to relocate prisoners in Guantanamo Bay, thus denying the Obama Administration any means to fulfill a campaign promise and move detainees to the United States. I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this amendment and standing with Americans across the country who are opposed to moving terrorists to our backyards.” Gardner has worked to find additional legislative solutions to block the transfer of Guantanamo Bay detainees to the United States. Last week, Gardner introduced an amendment to the Transportation, and Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies (THUD) Appropriations Act that would prohibit the use of funds to transfer Guantanamo Bay detainees from Guantanamo Bay, Cuba to the United States using our airspace. Recently, Gardner joined his GOP colleagues in introducing legislation that would prevent the transfer or release of Guantanamo Bay detainees to global terror havens, including all countries designated by the United States Department of State as state sponsors of terrorism, currently Iran, Syria, and Sudan. Current U.S. law already prohibits transfers to Yemen, Libya, Somalia, and Syria, but not to Iran and Sudan, where 14 detainees have been transferred over the past decade. In March, Gardner introduced a resolution formally rejecting President Obama’s plan to transfer prisoners from the Guantanamo Bay detention facilities to an alternate location in American communities, which is explicitly prohibited by law. Gardner is also a cosponsor of the Naval Station Guantanamo Bay Protection Act, a bill that stops the President from terminating or modifying the Naval Base at Guantanamo Bay’s lease without Congressional approval. Gardner has also called on the Obama Administration to transfer ISIS fighters to Guantanamo Bay. Following the recent announcement that U.S. Special Forces captured an ISIS leader, Gardner and his GOP colleagues introduced a resolution urging the Administration to transfer detained ISIS fighters to Guantanamo Bay. Gardner continues to meet with Coloradans and local law enforcement across the state who are opposed to moving terrorists from Guantanamo Bay to not only Colorado, but anywhere in the United States. In March, Gardner hosted a town hall in Florence, Colorado focused on national security issues that was attended by local elected officials, including members of the law enforcement community, and other local leaders to discuss issues including the potential transfer of Guantanamo Bay detainees to Colorado and the growing instability in the Middle East. Gardner discussed his visit to the Guantanamo Bay detention facility and reiterated his opposition to the transfer of the detainees to American soil. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
05.21.2016	05.21.16 Gardner Celebrates Armed Forces Day "The Americans who serve in our armed forces represent the very best our nation has to offer." Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the following statement celebrating Armed Forces Day: “The Americans who serve in our Armed Forces represent the very best our nation has to offer. These brave men and women in uniform sacrifice so much to keep us safe and protect our freedoms. It is an honor to have tens of thousands of our service members stationed at military bases throughout the great state of Colorado. It is also important to remember these men and women after their mission ends. Our veterans deserve the best possible care our country has to offer, and I will not settle for anything less. I will continue to support our troops and veterans in Colorado and around the world, and advocate for policies that ensure they have the necessary resources both on and off of the battlefield." ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
05.18.2016	05.18.16 Gardner: Obamacare Continues to Hurt Colorado Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) spoke on the Senate floor today about the impact of the President’s healthcare law on Colorado. [Click here to watch Senator Gardner’s remarks] Remarks as prepared: Mr. President, I rise today to discuss the continued broken promises of Obamacare and the negative impacts this poorly planned law has had on my state of Colorado. As Obamacare continues on a downward trajectory, Americans are the ones bearing the brunt of its failures. Month after month, headline after headline, Americans are no longer surprised when they hear of another Obamacare disaster as they continue to foot the ever-increasing bill. Fewer choices, less competition and higher costs. The President assured Americans time and time again, not to worry, because if you liked your health plan, then you could keep it. Coloradans quickly learned that this promise was far from the truth. In late 2013 roughly 335,000 small-group and individual policies in Colorado were canceled due to requirements in Obamacare. Unfortunately, the cancelations in 2013 were just the beginning. In January 2014 the Colorado Division of Insurance cancelled 249,000 plans because these plans didn’t meet the requirements of Obamacare. Again in 2015, 190,000 plans on the individual and small-group market were cancelled. In total, according to the Congressional Research Service, over 750,000 health insurance plans in Colorado were cancelled between 2013-2015. But that still wasn’t the end of it and Coloradans are still receiving cancellation notices. Within the last months, two of the nation’s largest health insurers, UnitedHealthCare and Humana, announced their intent to exit the individual market place. The UnitedHealth Group CEO cited that the marketplaces were a risky investment, and that UnitedHealth could not serve these exchanges on an “effective and sustained basis.” This decision will impact roughly 20,000 Coloradans and beneficiaries of these plans can expect cancellation notices in July. The disappointment and frustration over a cancelled plan that your family once enjoyed is made worse by the rising costs of the remaining plans. Americans were told Obamacare would reduce costs for families, businesses and our government. The Colorado Division of Insurance found that individual insurance premiums for 2016 on the Western Slope rose by an average of 25.8 percent. One woman, interviewed by the Denver Post, living on the Western Slope saw her premium cost alone rise from $300 per month to $1,828 per month, or nearly $22,000 a year. She says, “It’s actually like another mortgage payment. I have friends who are uninsured right now because they can’t afford it. Insurance is hard up here.” An increase of nearly 26 percent is incredible, but in 2014, one study found that nearly 150,000 Coloradans saw their health insurance become 77 percent more expensive. 26 percent increases, 77 percent increases, as we approach new rates for 2017, it appears there may be no limit to the additional costs that Coloradans will have to bear as the result of this poorly conceived law. Marilyn Tavenner, president and CEO of America’s health Insurance Plans who served as a key Obama administration health official as Administrator of CMS, has warned that ACA premium increases are around the corner. She has predicted that the increases for open enrollment in 2017 are going to be higher than ever before, and this is coming from a former administration official who helped run Obamacare. In Colorado insurers submitted their initial premium bids last Friday, May 13. We will know the rates approved by Colorado Department of Insurance in late September or early October, but it looks like Coloradans are in for yet another rude awakening. Premiums are expected to rise sharply and many parts of the country are going to experience double-digit rate hikes. So your plans are getting canceled and the plans you get to keep continue to get more expensive. President Obama promised greater competition in the marketplace, but data shows that because of unbearable bureaucratic hurdles competition has actually decreased. On Sunday the Wall Street Journal published an article titled, “Insurance Options Dwindle in Some Rural Regions.” This article explains how rural areas have experienced the greatest decline in competition, and how many rural counties will have only one insurer’s plan to choose from. A Kaiser Family Foundation study found that over 650 counties will have only one insurer on the exchanges to choose from during open enrollment in 2017, which is up from 225 counties in 2016. That’s more than twice as much. Of the 650 counties impacted by this lack of competition, 70% are primarily rural. People in rural areas are fearful that the dwindling completion will create a monopoly and costs will continue to rise. The President also insisted that competition would increase through consumer run CO-OPs. Over 80,000 Coloradans felt the impacts of this broken promise, when Colorado HealthOP was declared to be insolvent by the Colorado Insurance Commissioner and expeditiously liquidated. To date, 12 of the 23 CO-OPs created by Obamacare Act have been shut down. Collectively, the failed CO-OPs were loaned over $1 billion in tax-payer money to help get them off the ground. Now, with these failures, that tax-payer money may never be paid back. Today is about a path forward. With each passing disaster, it continues to become more clear that Obamacare is a failed policy. Americans are demanding real health care reform that will increase competition, reduce costs, expand access to care and improve quality of care. And most importantly, provide predictability and stability in the marketplace. This crisis demands real leadership, and I continue to remain committed to working with my colleagues on free-market solutions that will bring about real change. In Colorado I’ve heard from countless individuals who have been displaced from their plans, it’s time for Congress to step up to the plate. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
05.18.2016	05.18.16 Gardner, Hatch Introduce Bill Holding EPA Accountable for Gold King Mine Spill Washington, DC – Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Orrin Hatch (R-UT) today introduced legislation titled the Gold King Accountability and Compensation for Taxpayers (ACT). The Gold King ACT is a fiscally responsible bill that requires the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to fully and expeditiously compensate all communities impacted by the Gold King Mine spill. The legislation follows reports that La Plata County will not receive full reimbursement for the costs associated with the Gold King Mine spill, which occurred on August 5, 2015 after the EPA released millions of gallons of wastewater into the Animas River. “The EPA-born Gold King Mine disaster financially burdened families, businesses, tribal communities, and local governments not only in Colorado, but also neighboring states,” said Gardner. “The EPA is wholly accountable and therefore should be held to the same standard as private companies, and the Gold King ACT makes sure of it. I’ll continue to fight to ensure all of those affected by the Animas River spill are made whole, and encourage my colleagues to join Senator Hatch and me in rejecting Washington’s double standard and holding the EPA fully liable.” “Last year the EPA inadvertently spilled millions of gallons of waste into the Animas River in Colorado, exposing the waterways and surrounding environment to toxic heavy metals,” said Hatch. “This spill had a significant adverse impact on many downstream communities and businesses throughout multiple Western states—including Utah. The EPA must be held accountable for this travesty, and those that were impacted by this man-made disaster should be justly compensated. I am proud to join Senator Gardner in introducing legislation that will accomplish both these goals.” Currently, there are more than 60 federal tort claims relating to the Gold King Mine spill totaling nearly $5 million that the EPA has not yet paid. The Gold King ACT holds the EPA fully accountable by requiring the EPA to pay for these claims out of its own budget. Additionally, the legislation expedites the payout of emergency response costs assumed by tribes, counties, and local governments. While some of the response claims have been paid, the EPA has stated that it is not preparing to process emergency response actions after October 31, 2015. This bill directs the EPA to process and pay claims filed after this date as long as a claimant’s action is consistent with standard emergency response costs listed in federal law. Lastly, the legislation requires the EPA to work in coordination with states and Indian tribes to develop and implement a program for long-term water quality monitoring of the Animas River, which includes collecting water quality samples and sediment data and releasing it to the public. Background: Recently, Gardner toured EPA’s water treatment facility in Gladstone, CO. The tour followed a letter Gardner sent to the EPA urging additional funding for water quality monitoring, and later welcomed the news that EPA committed to providing $600,000 in additional funding to support spring runoff as well as real-time monitoring efforts. Gardner released a discussion draft of legislation designed to allow Good Samaritans, such as the mining industry, state agencies, local governments, nonprofits, and other groups, the opportunity to clean up the environment and improve water quality in and around orphan mines. A legislative hearing on the draft took place in the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works in March. Gardner continues to work toward introduction of the legislation with an intention to mark up the legislation this summer. In October, Gardner chaired a Senate Small Business Committee hearing that was called to assess the impact of the Gold King Mine spill on local communities and businesses. In September, Gardner testified at a Senate Environment and Public Works Committee hearing to discuss the EPA’s unacceptable response and recovery efforts following the Gold King Mine spill. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
05.17.2016	05.17.16 Gardner Bolts Ditch and Arkansas Valley Conduit Legislation Receive Favorable Hearing Washington, DC – The Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee’s Water and Power Subcommittee today held a hearing on legislation introduced by Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) - the Bolts Ditch Access and Use Act and legislation that aims to expedite the Arkansas Valley Conduit project. Bent County Commissioner and President of the Southeastern Colorado Water Conservancy District Board of Directors Bill Long testified in support of proposed Arkansas Valley Conduit legislation. “Both the Bolts Ditch and Arkansas Valley Conduit legislation are important to Colorado and will provide greater local control over our state’s water resources,” said Gardner. “I introduced these bills because I understand Coloradans know best when it comes to managing our water, and we must ensure Coloradans have access to the resources they need. “The Arkansas Valley Conduit project was originally approved in the 1960s under President Kennedy, yet the project has not moved forward. Colorado has waited far too long to see this project become a reality, and my bill recognizes that by allowing for expedited construction of the Conduit project. I will continue to work with my colleagues to move the Arkansas Valley Conduit legislation and the Bolts Ditch Access and Use Act through the legislative process.” Officials from the United States Bureau of Reclamation and Forest Service both testified during the hearing and stated their support for moving these bills forward. [Click here to watch Senator Gardner question witnesses about his legislation] Background: Authorized in the 1960s, the Arkansas Valley Conduit project in Southeast Colorado will deliver clean drinking water to local communities across the region upon completion. Gardner’s bill extends greater flexibility to the Southeastern Colorado Water Conservancy District by allowing the maximum use of miscellaneous revenue collected from the Fryingpan-Arkansas Project to be immediately reinvested into the Arkansas Valley Conduit once construction begins. When Holy Cross Wilderness Area was designated by Congress in 1980, Bolts Ditch was inadvertently left off of the list of existing water facilities. Gardner’s Bolts Ditch Access and Use Act would authorize special use of the Bolts Ditch headgate and the segment of the Bolts Ditch within the Holy Cross Wilderness Area, allowing Minturn to use its existing water right to fill Bolts Lake. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
05.17.2016	05.17.16 Gardner Amendment Prohibits Use of Federal Airspace to Transfer GTMO Terrorists to U.S. Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today introduced an amendment to the Transportation, and Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies (THUD) Appropriations Act that would prohibit the use of funds to transfer Guantanamo Bay detainees from Guantanamo Bay, Cuba to the U.S. using U.S. airspace. “When I met with Coloradans and local law enforcement in Florence, Colorado, their message was clear: do not allow the President to circumvent the law and bring terrorists to Colorado,” said Gardner. “I will continue to do everything I can to protect the people of Colorado and will use all avenues to block the President from enacting his reckless proposal. This legislation will prohibit the President from using United States airspace to transfer Guantanamo detainees to the United States, and instead keep the terrorists in Guantanamo Bay where they belong.” Background: Gardner recently joined his GOP colleagues in introducing legislation that would prohibit the transfer or release of Guantanamo Bay detainees to global terror havens, including all countries designated by the United States Department of State as state sponsors of terrorism, currently Iran, Syria, and Sudan. Current U.S. law already prohibits transfers to Yemen, Libya, Somalia, and Syria, but not to Iran and Sudan, where 14 detainees have been transferred over the past decade. In March, Gardner hosted a town hall in Florence, Colorado focused on national security issues. Local elected officials, including members of the law enforcement community, and other local leaders joined Gardner in Fremont County to discuss issues including the potential transfer of Guantanamo Bay detainees to Colorado and the growing instability in the Middle East. Following the recent announcement that U.S. Special Forces captured an ISIS leader, Gardner and his GOP colleagues introduced a resolution urging the Administration to transfer detained ISIS fighters to Guantanamo Bay. In March, Gardner introduced a resolution formally rejecting President Obama’s plan to transfer prisoners from the Guantanamo Bay detention facilities to an alternate location in American communities, which is explicitly prohibited by law. Gardner is a cosponsor of the Naval Station Guantanamo Bay Protection Act, a bill that prevents the President from terminating or modifying the Naval Base at Guantanamo Bay’s lease without Congressional approval. Gardner visited the Guantanamo Bay detention facility and upon his return to the U.S., reiterated his opposition to the transfer of the detainees to American soil. Several Obama Administration officials, including Department of Defense Secretary Ash Carter and Attorney General Loretta Lynch, have stated that current law prevents the transfer of Guantanamo Bay detainees to the United States. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
05.17.2016	05.17.16 Gardner Reacts to 20,000 Coloradans Losing Health Insurance Plans WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the below statement following reports that 20,000 Coloradans will lose their insurance due to UnitedHealth and Humana exiting the individual market in Colorado and the state’s health insurance exchange: “The Obama Administration continues to tout the success of the President’s health care law, but at the same time ignores the reality that it is failing tens of thousands of Coloradans and Americans across the country,” said Gardner. “President Obama repeatedly promised the American public ‘if you like your plan, you can keep it’ under his new law, but the opposite has proven true. Millions of plans have been cancelled, and now there are reports that more than 20,000 Coloradans will receive cancellation notices from their insurers in the coming months. While the Colorado Division of Insurance has called it ‘not too much a blow to the system,’ it is surely a blow to the families who are forced to find new plans before the end of the year. This is not the health care reform Coloradans were promised, and that’s why I’ll continue to work with my colleagues toward a patient-centered health care system that encourages competition to lower costs and preserve choice.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
05.16.2016	05.16.16 Gardner, Heinrich Celebrate U.S. Reaching One Million Solar Installations WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Martin Heinrich (D-NM), both members of the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources, introduced a resolution to celebrate that the U.S. has reached one million solar installations across the country. The solar energy industry supports bringing clean solar technology into homes and businesses around the nation. The industry provides employment opportunities for more than 208,000 solar workers in all 50 states and creates jobs at a rate 12 times higher than the rate of employment growth in the overall economy. The industry projects that it will reach two million installations in 2018. "I have long advocated for an all-of-the-above energy policy and solar power is a key component of that strategy," said Gardner. "One million solar installations across the country is a major accomplishment and I'm proud to celebrate this historic landmark. Solar energy not only powers our homes and businesses, but also our economy. In Colorado, over 400 companies, which are responsible for hundreds of millions of dollars in investments, contribute to the solar industry and employ thousands of Coloradans. I will continue to champion policies that strengthen our economy, create jobs, and move our country toward energy independence." "Reaching one million solar installations across the country is an incredible milestone, and I can't wait to see what the next couple years will bring," said Heinrich. "Families with solar panels on their rooftops--including mine--know firsthand how solar can reduce energy costs at home. Promoting cleaner sources of renewable energy helps consumers save money, cuts carbon pollution, diversifies our economy, and creates high quality jobs at the same time. New Mexico, with its abundant solar resources, can and should be at the epicenter of America's clean energy economy. I will continue to work every day to ensure this becomes a reality." There are more than 27 gigawatts of cumulative solar electric capacity operating in the United States, which is enough energy to power more than five million homes across the country. ###
05.16.2016	05.16.16 Gardner Announces Additional EPA Funds for Gold King Mine Spill Clean-Up Costs WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the below statement after learning the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has provided an additional $63,406 to La Plata County for Gold King Mine spill clean-up costs. “I welcome the news that the EPA will provide La Plata County with additional funding for the Gold King Mine spill clean-up costs, but I’m disappointed the EPA has yet to fully reimburse the county,” said Gardner. “While this is a step in the right direction, we must ensure all affected parties are fully reimbursed, and I will continue to advocate for my constituents in La Plata County and across Colorado who were affected by this disaster.” Background: Gardner has previously called on the EPA to fully reimburse La Plata County for all costs associated with the Gold King Mine spill and is set to introduce legislation that would require it. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
05.13.2016	05.13.16 Gardner Statement on NORTHCOM Change of Command Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the below statement recognizing U.S. Northern Command’s (NORTHCOM) change of command. Today, General Lori Robinson assumed the role of commander of NORTHCOM, making history as the first woman to lead a combatant command. Commissioned in 1982, General Robinson has commanded at all levels of the Air Force and most recently served as commander of the Pacific Air Forces. “I extend my congratulations to General Robinson, a proven, talented leader with more than 30 years of service to our country,” said Gardner. “She has paved the way for women in the military, serving as the first female four-star general to command combat forces and now as the first female to lead a combatant command. Her expertise and sound decision-making has supported more than 46,000 Airmen throughout her career, and I’m confident that she will expertly lead the Department of Defense’s efforts to defend the homeland during these challenging times. As the Chairman of the Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific and International Cybersecurity Policy, I look forward to working with General Robinson in her new role as commander of NORTHCOM as her wealth of experience will provide insight into how to best address the threats we face around the globe, in particular the threat from an increasingly belligerent North Korea.” Established at Peterson Air Force Base, in Colorado Springs, CO following the September 11, 2011 terrorist attacks, NORTHCOM’s primary mission is defense of the homeland. In addition to its assigned military personnel, NORTHCOM hosts over 200 liaison officers from more than 60 federal agencies who synchronize efforts across the federal government to defend America from the full spectrum of threats its facing. Earlier this week, Gardner honored Admiral Bill Gortney, who previously served as commander of NORTHCOM, on the Senate floor. The text of Gardner’s remarks are available here and the video can be viewed here. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
05.13.2016	05.13.16 Gardner Statement on Police Week Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statement recognizing Police Week: “We approach Peace Officers Memorial Day with heavy hearts as we reflect on the grave losses the state of Colorado has suffered this past year. Over the past four months, Deputy Sheriff Travis Russell, Corporal Nate Carrigan, and Deputy Sheriff Derek Geer lost their lives in the line of duty, and our local communities continue to mourn them. This week, we honor them and all of the fallen officers from across the country, while also extending our sincerest gratitude to all of those - and their families - who sacrifice so much to protect us and keep our schools, neighborhoods, and workplaces safe.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
05.12.2016	05.12.16 Gardner Provisions Included in Senate-Approved Energy and Water Appropriations Bill Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statement following the Senate’s approval of the Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill, which passed the United States Senate today with a vote of 90-8. “The Republican-led Senate is proving that regular order and debating individual appropriations bills is the responsible way to govern, and we’ll continue to do our job and fund the government through individual appropriations bills. The Senate is back to work for the American people and I look forward to continuing to work through the appropriations process in the coming weeks and months,” said Gardner. “I’m proud to have secured the funding for two important provisions in this appropriations package that directly affect Colorado. The Arkansas Valley Conduit project will result in cleaner, safer water in Southeast Colorado, and this important funding was approved to assist in the cost of construction. I’m also proud that the National Renewable Energy Laboratory calls Colorado home, and recognize that it needs adequate resources in order to continue its cutting-edge research and maintain jobs.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
05.11.2016	05.11.16 Gardner Leads the Charge for COMPETES Reauthorization Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) led a Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee hearing entitled, “Leveraging the U.S. Science and Technology Enterprise.” The purpose of the hearing was to discuss how we can reshape federal research and development policy, much of which was last authorized in 2010 under the America COMPETES Reauthorization Act. “I was honored to lead today’s Commerce Committee hearing focused on keeping the United States globally competitive in research and development,” said Gardner. “America’s entrepreneurial spirit is vital to our country’s future role in the world, and it is important we continue to promote cutting edge research and STEM education programs. “Colorado is home to numerous research facilities and I am excited about the many opportunities for Coloradans going forward. I am proud of our progress, and I look forward to developing comprehensive science and technology policy that strengthens our economy, creates good-paying jobs, and keeps America competitive.” Background: Last year, Chairman John Thune (R-SD) named Senator Gardner and Senator Gary Peters (D-MI) to spearhead the Committee’s bipartisan Innovation and Competitiveness Working Groups to discuss issues related to COMPETES legislation. Senators Gardner and Thune published an opinion piece in The Hill calling for a working group to study COMPETES legislation. On July 9, 2015, Senators Gardner and Peters announced that they would lead a series of discussion briefings to gather information from the U.S. science and research community and help shape federal research and development policy to improve American innovation and competitiveness. On October 20, 2015, Gardner and Peters offered an update on input they received from the U.S. science and research community. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
05.10.2016	05.10.16 Gardner Honors Admiral Gortney’s Distinguished Career on Senate Floor Commander of NORAD and NORTHCOM to Retire After 39 Years of Service Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today took to the Senate floor to honor Admiral Bill Gortney who will retire on June 1, 2016 after 39 years of service to our nation. Most recently, Admiral Gortney served as commander of the North American Aerospace Defense Command and United States Northern Command, headquartered at Peterson Air Force Base in Colorado Springs. Click here to watch Senator Gardner’s remarks. Remarks as prepared for delivery: Mr. President, I rise today to recognize and commend Admiral William “Bill” E. Gortney, who will retire on June 1, 2016, after 39 years of exceptional leadership and service to our country. Most recently, he served as commander of the North American Aerospace Defense Command and United States Northern Command, headquartered at Peterson Air Force Base in Colorado Springs. In his current capacity, Admiral Gortney is responsible for homeland defense, defense support for civil authorities, and theater security cooperation with Mexico and the Bahamas. Additionally, as head of the bi-national NORAD command with Canada, he is responsible for aerospace warning, aerospace control, and maritime warning in the defense of North America. It has been a tremendous pleasure to work closely with Admiral Gortney since joining the Senate. In particular, as the Chairman of the Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia and the Pacific, I have often sought his advice and counsel to gauge the threat of North Korea’s nuclear and ballistic missile programs to the U.S. homeland. Born to William and Gloria Gortney in La Jolla, California, Admiral Gortney is no stranger to military service. Admiral Gortney is a second generation naval aviator. His father retired as a Captain from the Navy in 1970, after 28 years of service that included time in World War II, the Korean War, and Vietnam War. Admiral Gortney received his wings of gold in 1978 at Naval Air Station Beeville, Texas, and began an illustrious career as a naval aviator under the call sign “shortney.” Admiral Gortney has completed numerous successful fleet and staff assignments, both in the U.S. and abroad. His first opportunity for command was on board the USS Theodore Roosevelt from 1994-1995. From there, he has amassed an impressive resume of command experience, including three command tours in the U.S. Central Command area of operations, providing support to Maritime Security Operations and combat operations for Operations Enduring Freedom and Iraqi Freedom. These assignments included commander of U.S. Naval Forces Central Command / U.S. 5th Fleet / Combined Maritime Forces, Bahrain; commander of Carrier Strike Group 10, on board the USS Harry S. Truman; and commander of Carrier Air Wing 7, on board the USS John F. Kennedy. His first flag tour was as the deputy chief of staff for Global Force Management and Joint Operations, U.S. Fleet Forces Command, Norfolk, Virginia. More recently he served as director of the Joint Staff, then commanded, U.S. Fleet Forces Command, prior to taking command at NORAD and USNORTHCOM. Admiral Gortney has flown over 5,360 mishap-free flight hours on the Corsair II and F/A-18 Hornet and completed 1,265 carrier-arrested landings. His military decorations include: • The Defense Distinguished Service Medal - two awards • Navy Distinguished Service Medal - two awards • Defense Superior Service Medal • Legion of Merit - four awards, and • Bronze Star, among many others. From other nations, his military decorations include: • The French National Order of the Legion of Honor Award • The Bahrain Medal, First Class • The Secretary of the National Defense for Mexico Military Merit 1st Class Medal, and • Secretary of the Mexican Navy Naval Distinction 2nd Class Medal. Mr. President, Admiral Bill Gortney’s unique combination of operational experience, charismatic leadership, and unyielding patriotism have served him well in a lifetime of military service. Today, we honor his admirable service to our Nation and all the airmen, sailors, soldiers, marines, and civilians, who have served alongside him. We offer our heartfelt appreciation to Bill, his wife Sherry, their children, Stephanie and Billy, daughter-in-law Jackie, and grandchildren, Gavin and Grayson for all of their sacrifice and support to our country. On behalf of the Senate and a grateful nation I congratulate him on a job well done and wish him the best as he begins a hard-earned retirement. Thank you, Mr. President, I yield the floor. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
05.10.2016	05.10.16 Thune and Gardner Question Excessive Consulting Fees Draining Rural Health Care Telecommunications Funds Washington, DC - U.S. Sen. John Thune (R-S.D.), chairman of the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, and Sen. Cory Gardner (R-CO sent a letter today to Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Chairman Tom Wheeler and Chris Henderson, chief executive officer of the Universal Service Administration Company (USAC), which administers the Rural Health Care telecommunications program. The letter reads in part: “[W]e wish to express our concern that rate-payer dollars dedicated to programs under USAC’s stewardship, such as the Rural Health Care (RHC) program, are going toward unnecessary or excessive consulting fees rather than their intended purpose – helping rural health care providers gain access to essential telecommunications and broadband services (…) We strongly support the goals of the RHC program, but we are concerned that an unreasonable portion of RHC funds may be going to so-called ‘application mills’ rather than toward funding the broadband services for rural hospitals and clinics as intended.” Thune and Gardner request responses to the following questions no later than May 24: 1) Does the FCC or USAC monitor the percentage of funding awarded under the RHC program that beneficiaries pay to consultants? If so, please provide the percentage of funding and the corresponding dollar amounts that consultants received for each of fiscal years 2006 through 2015. a. If the FCC or USAC does not monitor the amounts paid to consultants under the RHC program, please explain why not. b. If the FCC or USAC does not monitor the amounts paid to consultants under the RHC program, do you think it is in the public interest and spirit of the USF to monitor the amounts paid to consultants in order to ensure the funding recipients receive the intended benefit of the program? 2) Do FCC rules prohibit the expenditure of USF funds on consulting fees or similar expenses? Is there a cap for such fees and expenses? If not, why not? 3) Do excessive consulting fees fall under the FCC’s reporting requirements under the Improper Payments Elimination and Recovery Improvement Act? If not, how do you determine whether an excessive consultant fee does or does not constitute an improper payment? 4) Do consulting contracts with USF beneficiaries typically have auto-renewal provisions? If so, provide an example of a typical auto-renewal provision, including the amount of time before the end of a contract within which the USF beneficiary would be required to affirmatively terminate the contract to preclude auto-renewal. 5) According to a recent USAC filing, the USAC Internal Controls Team will complete testing of the internal controls surrounding the HCF in the second quarter of 2016. Do these reviews of internal controls examine the payments from HCF made to consultants? If not, please explain why not. 6) According to a recent USAC filing, USAC has planned 31 audits of the RHC program for fiscal years 2014 and 2015, and the USAC Board has approved 21. Do any of the 31 planned audits probe the amounts of money beneficiaries of the RHC program paid out to consultants? If not, explain why not. a. Provide a narrative explanation for each of USAC’s 31 planned audits of the RHC program. b. Why has the USAC Board not approved 10 of USAC’s planned audits of the RHC program? Please identify the 10 audits not approved by the USAC Board, and provide an explanation for why each audit was not approved by the USAC Board. 7) Does the FCC or USAC monitor the percentage of funding awarded under the E-rate program that beneficiaries pay to consultants? If so, please provide the percentage of funding and the corresponding dollar amounts that consultants received for each of fiscal years 2006 through 2015. If FCC or USAC does not monitor the amounts paid to consultants under the E-rate program, please explain why not. 8) According to a recent USAC filing, USAC has planned 145 audits of the E-rate program for fiscal years 2014 and 2015, and the USAC Board has approved 63. Do any of the 145 planned audits probe the amounts of money beneficiaries of the E-rate program paid out to consultants? If not, explain why not. a. Provide a narrative explanation for each of USAC’s 145 planned audits of the E-rate program. b. Why has the USAC Board not approved 82 of USAC’s planned audits of E-rate? Please identify the 82 audits not approved by the USAC Board, and provide an explanation for why each audit was not approved by the USAC Board. The full text of the letter is available here. ###
05.10.2016	05.10.16 ***MEDIA ADVISORY*** Gardner to Lead COMPETES Commerce Committee Hearing Washington, DC – On Wednesday, May 11th, U.S. Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) will lead a Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee hearing entitled, “Leveraging the U.S. Science and Technology Enterprise.” Last year, Chairman John Thune (R-SD) named Senator Gardner and Senator Gary Peters (D-MI) to spearhead the Committee’s bipartisan Innovation and Competitiveness Working Groups to discuss issues related to COMPETES legislation. WHAT: Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation WHEN: Wednesday, May 11th at 10:00 AM EST. WHERE: Senate Russell 253 WITNESSES: • Dr. Kelvin Droegemeier, Vice Chair, National Science Board • Dr. Jeannette Wing, Corporate Vice President for Research, Microsoft • Dr. Robert D. Atkinson, President, Information Technology and Innovation Foundation • Dr. David Munson, Robert J. Vlasic Dean of Engineering, College of Engineering, University of Michigan Background: • Senators Gardner and Thune published an opinion piece in The Hill calling for a working group to study COMPETES legislation. • On July 9, 2015, Senators Gardner and Peters announced that they will lead a series of discussion briefings to gather information from the U.S. science and research community and help shape federal research and development policy to improve American innovation and competitiveness, which was last authorized by the America COMPETES Act of 2010. • On October 20, 2015, Gardner and Peters offered an update on input they received from the U.S. science and research communities. The Commerce Committee previously announced this Hearing. Click here for further details. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
05.06.2016	05.06.16 Gardner Announces FAA Grants for Colorado Airports Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced the United States Department of Transportation (DOT) awarded four separate Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) grants to Colorado airports. Yampa Valley Airport will receive $965,358 to acquire snow removal equipment and install a new airport beacon, the San Luis Valley Regional/Bergman Field Airport will receive $77,425 for runway rehabilitation, Colorado Plains Regional Airport will receive $233,060 to develop an airport master plan, and the Craig-Moffat Airport will receive $153,941 for taxiway rehabilitation. “I’m pleased to announce four separate counties in Colorado will receive Federal Aviation Administration grants to improve airports from the Western Slope to the Eastern Plains,” said Gardner. “It is important our local airports have adequate resources to serve Coloradans across the state and all of those who utilize them. I will continue to champion Colorado priorities at the federal level and advocate on behalf of small towns across our great state.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
05.05.2016	05.05.16 Gardner Tours EPA Water Treatment Facility in Gladstone Washington, DC – U.S. Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the below statement following his tour of the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) water treatment facility in Gladstone, Colorado. The water treatment facility was set up after the EPA released approximately three million gallons of mining sludge into the Animas River on August 5, 2015. “EPA’s water treatment facility is essential to ensuring the surrounding local communities have access to a safe water supply, and it is my hope that EPA expands the scope of the facility and uses it to the full capacity throughout the cleanup process. While I’m pleased EPA is working with local officials to remediate the systemic issues that are the product of the Gold King Mine spill, the tour provided me with further confirmation that we need permanent solutions to address the problem of abandoned mines across Colorado and the West,” said Gardner. “That’s why I’m working on legislation that allows Good Samaritans the opportunity to clean up the environment in and around orphan mines. I will continue to work to find effective solutions to prevent another EPA-born disaster, and do everything I can to ensure the local communities affected by the Gold King Mine spill have the resources they deserve to fully recover.” Background: • Gardner joined Senator Michael Bennet and Representative Scott Tipton (CO-03) in releasing a discussion draft designed to allow Good Samaritans, such as the mining industry, state agencies, local governments, nonprofits, and other groups, the opportunity to clean up the environment and improve water quality in and around orphan mines. A legislative hearing on the draft took place in the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works in March. They continue to work toward introduction of the legislation. • Gardner reacted to reports that EPA would not fully reimburse La Plata County for costs incurred as a result of the Gold King Mine spill. Gardner is set to introduce legislation with Senator Orrin Hatch (R-UT) that would require EPA to fully and expeditiously compensate all communities that were impacted by the Gold King Mine spill. • Gardner welcomed the news that EPA committed to providing $600,000 in additional funding to support spring runoff as well as real-time monitoring efforts. Gardner tours EPA water treatment facility in Gladstone, CO ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
05.04.2016	05.04.16 Gardner Statement on Additional EPA Funding for Animas River Spill Fallout WASHINGTON – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the below statement after learning the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has committed to providing $600,000 in additional funding to support spring runoff as well as real-time monitoring efforts following the Animas River spill on August 5, 2015. Additionally, EPA announced it will provide $2 million in funding to Clean Water Act Sections 106 and 319, which provide states and tribes clarity on overall water conditions in the Animas and San Juan Rivers. “I applaud EPA’s decision to provide additional funding to support water quality treatment and monitoring efforts as I expressed to EPA during Congressional hearings last fall. The spring runoff is a top concern of mine following the Animas River spill, as we learn more about the spill's long-term impact," said Gardner. “Furthermore, I’m working on legislation that allows Good Samaritan projects to apply for funding for remediation under Section 319 of the Clean Water Act, so I’m pleased EPA has increased its funding. EPA’s commitment to additional funding is a positive step forward, and I will continue to fight to ensure that the EPA is held fully accountable and my constituents who were affected by the Animas River disaster are made whole.” In April, Gardner joined Governor John Hickenlooper (D-CO), Senator Michael Bennet (D-C), and Representative Scott Tipton (CO-03) in sending a letter urging EPA to provide additional funds for water quality monitoring in light of spring runoff. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
04.29.2016	04.29.16 DOI Announces Trapper Mine Can Remain Operational DOI Completion of Environmental Assessment Prior to April 30th Allows Mine to Stay Open Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today welcomed the Interior Department's Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement (OSMRE) announcement that Trapper Mine's environmental assessment is completed and development of the mine can continue. The decision comes after Gardner repeatedly urged the Interior Department to finish the environmental assessment before its deadline, April 30, 2016. "Trapper Mine is one of the largest employers in Northwest Colorado, qualifying it as an economic cornerstone of the region," said Gardner. "I join Northwest Colorado in welcoming today's announcement, which will allow operations to continue at Trapper Mine and preserve the jobs and livelihoods that depend on it." Trapper Mine’s permit was covered under the same environmental review that the U.S. District Court in Colorado deemed deficient for Coloywo Mine, but Trapper Mine was initially believed to be unaffected. Further review led to a negotiation with the OSMRE that required a new environmental assessment in order to keep Trapper Mine operational. In December of 2015, Gardner joined Governor John Hickenlooper (D-CO), Sen. Bennet (D-CO), and Rep. Scott Tipton (CO-3) in sending a letter to DOI urging completion of the environmental assessment before its deadline. Gardner and Tipton followed up with another letter on April 6, 2016 as the deadline neared. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
04.29.2016	04.29.16 Gardner, Hatch Set to Introduce Bill to Require EPA to Fully Reimburse for Gold King Mine Spill Costs Washington, DC – Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Orrin Hatch (R-UT) are pursing legislation that would require the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to fully and expeditiously compensate all communities that were impacted by the Gold King Mine spill. The legislation follows reports that La Plata County will not receive full reimbursement for the costs associated with the Gold King Mine spill, which occurred on August 5, 2015 after the EPA released millions of gallons of wastewater into the Animas River. “Recent reports create doubt that the EPA will make good on its promise to fully cover the costs of the Gold King Mine spill disaster, which was entirely manufactured by the EPA,” said Gardner. “That’s why I’m pursuing legislation that would require the EPA to ensure La Plata County, San Juan County, affected tribal communities, and my constituents are fully compensated. The EPA must be held to the same standard as private companies, and the bill Senator Hatch and I are working on will do just that.” “Last year the EPA inadvertently spilled millions of gallons of waste into the Animas River in Colorado, exposing the local environment to toxic heavy metals,” said Hatch. “This spill had a significant adverse impact on many downstream communities and businesses throughout multiple Western states—including Utah. The EPA must be held accountable for this travesty, and those that were impacted by this man-made disaster must be justly compensated.” ###
04.28.2016	04.28.16 Gardner Statement on President’s Nomination to Colorado District Court Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statement following an announcement that President Obama nominated Regina Rodriguez to the U.S. District Court for the District of Colorado. In August, Gardner announced a Judicial Evaluation Committee tasked with making recommendations to fill the Colorado judgeship, and in November, the Committee unanimously recommended four highly qualified legal professionals, including Rodriguez. In February, Gardner joined Sen. Michael Bennet (D-CO) in submitting recommendations to fill the impending vacancy to the White House. Rodriguez was one of the recommendations put forward by Sen. Gardner's Judicial Vacancy Committee. “Regina Rodriguez is one of Denver’s best litigators, and has served Colorado well,” said Gardner. “Her experience is a testament to her qualifications to serve on the federal bench, and the opportunity to meet with her provided me further confirmation of that. I applaud the progress made to fill the vacancy and look forward to working toward Regina’s confirmation.” Regina M. Rodriguez is a partner in the Denver, Colorado office of Hogan Lovells US LLP, where she specializes in mass tort and product liability defense. Previously, she worked in the Denver office of Faegre & Benson LLP (now Faegre Baker Daniels LLP) as a special counsel until she was elevated to partner in 2005. She served as an Assistant United States Attorney for the United States Attorney’s Office for the District of Colorado from 1995 to 2002, during which time she served as the Deputy Chief of the Civil Division from 1998 to 1999 and as Chief of the Civil Division from 1999 to 2002. In addition, from 1997 to 1998, she served a four-month detail as Deputy Senior Counsel for Alternative Dispute Resolution in the Assistant Attorney General’s Office for the United States Department of Justice. Rodriguez began her legal career as an associate in the Denver law firm of Cooper & Kelly, P.C. (now defunct) from 1988 to 1995. She received her J.D. from the University of Colorado School of Law in 1988 and her B.S. with honors from the University of Iowa in 1985. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
04.28.2016	04.28.16 Gardner, Tipton Blast EPA on Lack of Compensation for Gold King Mine Spill Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Representative Scott Tipton (CO-03) today reacted to a report that revealed the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) told La Plata County it would not receive full reimbursement for the costs that resulted from the Gold King Mine spill, which occurred on August 5, 2015 after the EPA released millions of gallons of wastewater into the Animas River. “If the reports are accurate, it’s outrageous the EPA does not intend to fully reimburse La Plata County for the disaster it created,” said Gardner. “This is yet another example of the Washington double standard and it’s unacceptable, shameful, and will be fiercely challenged. The EPA must keep its promise to the people of Colorado and abide by the standards it expects of others. I’ll do everything I can to ensure La Plata County, San Juan County, affected tribal communities, and my constituents are fully compensated and the EPA is held wholly accountable for its negligence that’s resulted in property damage and lost economic opportunity for local communities, businesses, and families in Colorado.” “This is par for the course with the EPA,” Tipton said. “I have been skeptical of the EPA’s management of this situation from the onset and find it offensive to the communities in my district that the EPA, who is directly responsible for this disaster, has so blatantly admitted La Plata County, and others, will not receive full compensation for the damages caused by this spill. The EPA’s admission has raised a whole new set of questions and brought into serious question their competency and capability to fulfill the promises they have already made to the affected communities. We will not let up on the EPA. La Plata and San Juan counties as well as all of the other affected communities, businesses and individuals, must receive full compensation for this disaster.” ###
04.28.2016	04.28.16 Gardner, Scott, Booker Introduce Legislation to Stimulate Local Economies in Impoverished Communities Washington – U.S. Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) joined Senators Tim Scott (R-SC) and Cory Booker (D-NJ) in introducing the Investing in Opportunity Act, a bipartisan bill proposing a new solution to encourage economic growth and job creation in economically distressed communities. Representatives Pat Tiberi (R-OH) and Ron Kind (D-WI) joined Gardner, Scott, and Booker to introduce the bill, which offers a temporary capital gains deferral in exchange for reinvesting those dollars into distressed communities. Currently, more than 50 million Americans nationwide live in an economically distressed communities. With American investors currently holding trillions of dollars in unrealized capital gains, the Investing in Opportunity Act provides an innovative framework for reinvesting those dollars into communities that need it most. “As a fifth generation Coloradan who grew up on the Eastern Plains, I know how important it is to attract growth to local communities, and particularly rural communities, in Colorado and throughout the country,” Gardner said. “The Investing in Opportunity Act is an innovative way to encourage investment, incite growth, and extend opportunities to communities that are struggling. I encourage my colleagues to join us in supporting this commonsense legislation that’s a stepping stone to restoring faith in the American Dream for some people who feel that it may be out of reach for them.” The Investing in Opportunity Act opens the door for private investment in economically distressed communities in the following ways: Removes a barrier to investment through a temporary capital gains deferral in exchange for reinvesting in distressed communities Encourages investors from across the nation to pool resources through newly-created “Opportunity Funds” -- established specifically for making investments in distressed communities Concentrates capital by establishing “Opportunity Zones” -- geographically targeted low-income areas that will be designated by governors Provides incentives for investors to make long-term commitments to these communities Research by the Economic Innovation Group recently found that more than 50 million Americans live in economically distressed communities, which suffer from a lack of investment and business growth. The Opportunity Funds created by this legislation will provide a high-impact source for funding new businesses, developing blighted properties, investing in local infrastructure projects, financing facility construction or refurbishment, and a host of other activities to new opportunities for local residents and enhance the local economy. ###
04.27.2016	04.27.16 Gardner, Cardin, Menendez, Schatz Introduce Asia-Pacific Maritime Legislation to Enhance U.S. Regional Leadership, Support Allies WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R-Colo.), Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations East Asia Subcommittee, Ben Cardin (D-Md.), Ranking Member of both the Senate Foreign Relations Committee (SFRC) and the SFRC East Asia Subcommittee, Robert Menendez (D-N.J.), a senior member of the SFRC, and Brian Schatz (D-Hawaii) introduced legislation Wednesday to enhance American maritime capacity and leadership and increase support to our allies in the Asia-Pacific region. The Asia-Pacific Maritime Security Initiative Act of 2016 clarifies American policy and commitments in the region, and aligns diplomatic and military resources and activities to support greater maritime domain awareness, institutional architecture, and partner capacity building efforts. “China’s ongoing reclamation activities and militarization of the South China Sea threatens regional stability and represents a clear and fundamental challenge to the international law," Senator Gardner said. “We must be committed to standing with our allies in opposition to Beijing’s activities and also standing for international law and freedom of navigation in one of the world’s most strategically and commercially important waterways. The Asia-Pacific Maritime Security Initiative Act codifies United States policy that our military will routinely enforce our freedom of navigation rights, we will stand up for international law, and we will provide our partners the resources and training they need to protect their maritime domains. This legislation is a significant step toward protecting U.S. economic, diplomatic, and military interests in the region, and I urge my colleagues to support it.” “The United States and our allies and partners face new, critical challenges in the maritime domains of the Asia-Pacific region. China's provocative actions in the South China Sea, including its aggressive island-building campaign, threaten not just regional stability but long-standing U.S. interests in the free-flow of commerce, freedom of navigation, and the peaceful resolution of disputes consistent with international law. China is of course not unique in its actions, which have complicated efforts to resolve conflicting claims diplomatically or legally, but the quantity, scope, and scale of its activities have a quality all their own,” Senator Cardin said. “For too long as China continues its aggressive and expansive policies, the United States has played the role of observer, or perhaps protestor, but not yet actor,” Senator Menendez said. “With this legislation, we offer this new way forward: challenge the Government of China on its destabilizing policies in the region, assert legal and rightful international authority over maritime boundaries, and send a signal to our friends and allies in the region that the international community – led by the United States – will no longer tolerate China’s efforts to militarize its foreign policy.” “China’s ongoing actions to unilaterally redraw the region’s maritime borders exacerbates the risks of misperceptions and conflict,” Senator Schatz said. “Our bipartisan legislation helps align our diplomatic and military efforts so that we can continue to work with our partners and allies across the Pacific to strengthen our commitment to regional peace and stability.” “With a landmark decision soon to be made by the International Tribunal on the Law of the Sea in the case of the Philippines versus China, now is the time for the United States and our regional and global partners to take clear and concrete measures to support a rules-based order for the Asia-Pacific Region,” Cardin added. The legislation: Authorizes the Secretary of State to provide Foreign Military Financing assistance and International Military and Education Training activities in the Asia-Pacific for maritime security capacity building; Authorizes appropriations for the State Department’s Southeast Asia Maritime Law Enforcement Initiative; Authorizes the Secretary of Defense, in concurrence with the Secretary of State, to provide assistance for the purpose of increasing maritime security and domain awareness for countries in the Asia-Pacific region; Upgrades the Philippines’ military procurement status to the same level that our closest allies enjoy under U.S. law; Prioritizes Asia-Pacific regional allies and maritime ASEAN member states for the transfer of excess defense articles: and Requires the administration to report on plans for freedom of navigation assertions, maritime security partner capacity building and China’s activities in the South China Sea. ###
04.27.2016	04.27.16 Senate Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee Approves Gardner’s Space Weather Bill Washington, DC – The U.S. Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee today approved U.S. Senator Cory Gardner’s (R-CO) Space Weather Research and Forecasting Act, bipartisan legislation introduced with Sen. Gary Peters (D-MI) and Sen. Cory Booker (D-NJ) to improve efforts to predict and mitigate the effects of space weather events, which can have significant economic and security implications, on Earth and in space. The legislation will strengthen space weather research and response by delineating clear roles and responsibilities to the agencies that study and predict space weather events, including the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), the National Science Foundation (NSF), and the Department of Defense (DOD). “I’m pleased the Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee approved the Space Weather Research and Forecasting Act,” said Gardner. “Because space weather has the potential to significantly impact our economy, it’s important that we invest in research to protect our critical infrastructure and strengthen our response and recovery efforts to prepare for space weather events. I look forward to the Senate’s full consideration of this legislation.” Space weather events are caused by constantly changing conditions in the Sun’s magnetic fields and have the potential to disrupt the electric power grid, communications networks, GPS, satellites and aircraft operations leading to serious economic and safety consequences. These events can impact infrastructure and businesses, including causing outages at electric utilities, disrupting GPS and communication networks, and forcing airlines to reroute air traffic, resulting in multi-million dollar economic damages. Estimates for damages from a worst-case scenario space weather event could be up to $2 trillion and impact as many as 40 million people. The Space Weather Research and Forecasting Act legislation strengthens space weather research by directing federal agencies to develop new tools and technologies to improve forecasting and develop benchmark standards to describe space weather disturbances and their potential impacts to Earth. The legislation also directs NOAA to develop plans to provide a back-up for the aging Solar and Heliospheric Observatory (SOHO) satellite, the only satellite providing imagery of space weather that could impact Earth. Additionally, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) will be directed to use space weather research and information to assess national preparedness for interference from space weather and determine critical infrastructure that may be impacted. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
04.27.2016	04.27.16 Gardner Questions Obama Administration Policy on North Korea Sanctions and the South China Sea Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner’s (R-CO), Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relation Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy, today questioned the Deputy Secretary of State Antony J. Blinken during a hearing entitled, “U.S.—China Relations: Strategic Challenges and Opportunities.” Gardner asked Deputy Secretary Blinken about the Obama Administration’s enforcement of Gardner's North Korea sanctions legislation, as well as its plan to deter China’s provocative actions in the South China Sea and enforce international law. Click here to watch the exchange. Background: In February of 2016, President Barack Obama signed Gardner’s North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act into law. This legislation received rare, overwhelming bipartisan support, passing the Senate 96-0 and the House of Representatives by 408-2. The bill imposes mandatory sanctions on individuals who contribute to North Korea’s nuclear program and proliferation activities, cyberattacks, censorship of its citizens, and the regime’s continued human rights abuses, and is a drastic new direction away from the Administration’s discretionary sanctions. Earlier today, Gardner introduced the Asia-Pacific Maritime Security Initiative Act of 2016, which clarifies American policy and commitments in the region, and aligns diplomatic and military resources and activities to support greater maritime domain awareness, institutional architecture, and partner capacity building efforts. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
04.26.2016	04.26.16 Gardner Votes for Bipartisan Measure That Supports Wind Energy, Secures Funding for NREL Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today voted for an amendment to the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development appropriations bill that provides additional funding for wind energy research. The base text of the bill included $30 million that Gardner secured for the National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL), located in Golden, CO, to maintain its research activities at the National Wind Technology Center and sustain jobs. “NREL is a leader in clean energy, and it’s important that it has the resources it needs to continue its research and development activities,” said Gardner. “That’s why I worked to ensure that NREL’s innovation and the jobs it supports are reflected in the appropriations bill. NREL is an asset not only to Colorado, but our country and today’s bipartisan vote recognizes the research and development in wind technology done there.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
04.23.2016	04.23.16 Gardner Condemns North Korean Submarine Ballistic Missile Test Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statement following reports that North Korea conducted a ballistic missile test from a submarine. “North Korea’s latest illegal, provocative action, attempting to launch a ballistic missile from a submarine, highlights the growing danger Kim Jong Un’s regime poses to the region and the homeland,” said Gardner. “Regardless of whether the latest launch was successful, their technology is rapidly advancing and capabilities are growing. The latest development is further evidence that the U.S. should move forward urgently with applying additional sanctions, pursuant to my legislation, to stop the Forgotten Maniac. The Administration must ratchet up pressure now on North Korea and its enablers, no matter where they are based, in order to protect the US homeland and our allies in the region and ultimately, peacefully disarm the regime.” Background: In March of 2016, Gardner condemned North Korea’s missile launch hours after the United Nations imposed sanctions on North Korea. In February of 2016, President Barack Obama signed Gardner’s North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act into law. This legislation received rare, overwhelming bipartisan support, passing the Senate 96-0 and the House of Representatives by 408-2. The bill imposes mandatory sanctions on individuals who contribute to North Korea’s nuclear program and proliferation activities, cyberattacks, censorship of its citizens, and the regime’s continued human rights abuses, and is a drastic new direction away from the Administration’s discretionary sanctions. Gardner reacted to reports of U.S. peace talks with North Korea in early January of 2016. In an op-ed in the Wall Street Journal, Gardner urged action against the “Forgotten Maniac.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
04.21.2016	04.21.16 Gardner Welcomes Colorado Transportation Commission’s Approval of Ski Train Washington, DC – U.S. Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today celebrated the Colorado Transportation Commission’s decision to approve the necessary funds for the Winter Park Ski Train. Once the necessary upgrades are completed, passengers will be able to take the train from downtown Denver to Winter Park Ski Resort. “Any Coloradan or visitor to the state making the trip to the mountains on a weekend to ski, hike, or do anything else the Rockies have to offer has often run into one common sight: brake lights. Interstate 70 connecting Colorado’s Front Range to our mountain attractions is simply a corridor where demand outpaces supply,” said Gardner. “While the ski train will not resolve all of the I-70 congestion issues we face in getting to the mountains, I am pleased the local and state entities involved decided the Ski Train must be part of a broader solution.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
04.21.2016	04.21.16 Gardner Votes to Protect Colorado Water Rights Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today voted in favor of an amendment to the Senate Energy and Water Development appropriations bill that prevents the Army Corps of Engineers from using funding to enforce the Waters of the United States (WOTUS) regulation. WOTUS, developed by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the Army Corps of Engineers, redefines and expands waters that are subject to Clean Water Act regulations, and has the potential to impact an additional 1 million acres and 170,000 miles of stream in Colorado. “A glaring example of the federal government’s overreach, the WOTUS rule is an unconstitutional takeover of our local waters, which traditionally have been and should continue to be managed by states, local governments, and water districts,” said Gardner. “The WOTUS rule unfairly burdens Colorado farmers and ranchers with endless red tape and unnecessary costs, and that’s why I stand with them in firmly opposing it. Today’s vote blocks the implementation of WOTUS, and I’ll continue to work to protect the agriculture community in Colorado and throughout the country from the Obama Administration massive overreach.” Background: Gardner has been a consistent opponent of the WOTUS rule. He denounced the final WOTUS Rule when it was revealed last May and applauded the decision by Federal Judge Ralph Erickson to halt the rule’s implementation in 13 states. In September, he signed on as a cosponsor of the resolution of disapproval authored by Senator Ernst (R-IA), which later passed the Senate with Gardner’s support. When the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals halted implementation of WOTUS nationwide in October, Gardner called it “a victory for agriculture, rural communities, and all Coloradans.” In November, he voted in favor of the Federal Water Quality Protection Act, which would have forced the Environmental Protection Agency and Army Corps of Engineers to re-write the WOTUS rule with much stronger state and agricultural protections as well as more input from local communities. In January, Gardner voted to override the President’s veto of legislation that would repeal WOTUS. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
04.21.2016	04.21.16 Gardner, Wicker, Heitkamp, and Colleagues Encourage Support of 4-H Washington, D.C. – The Senate unanimously approved a bipartisan resolution introduced by Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO), Roger Wicker (R-MS), and Heidi Heitkamp, (D-ND) in support of 4-H and its recently-launched “Grow True Leaders” campaign. The measure, which is cosponsored by 34 senators, recognizes the immeasurable benefits of the national 4-H program for young people and its potential growth under the new initiative. “The program played an important role in my life when I was part of the Westerneers 4-H group in Yuma, Colorado, and today our daughter is a member of that very same club,” said Gardner. “4-H is important to rural and urban communities across Colorado and the country, and I am proud to support an organization that showed me at a young age how important it is to be civically engaged.” “4-H plays an important role in shaping the lives of young people in Mississippi and across the country,” Wicker said. “Historically, the organization’s nearly 6 million members typically hail from rural areas of America. I am impressed with the incredible strides that 4-H has made in our rural communities and encouraged that 4-H is expanding into the nation’s urban centers and suburbs, significantly growing its outreach. I look forward to helping facilitate the growth of True Leaders, giving students a place to learn and exercise valuable leadership skills.” “For over 100 years, 4-H has nurtured young leaders in rural America – and it had a huge impact on me growing up. Now, 4-H programs supporting civic engagement, science education, public speaking, and more are moving further into urban and suburban communities as well,” Heitkamp said. “As a fellow 4-H’er, I know personally that these programs make a difference in students’ lives, and I continue to hear about the opportunities 4-H provides for young North Dakotans around our state. With 4-H expanding, I’m proud to honor this national program for its work to grow the next generation of leaders in local communities across the country.” The 4-H movement supports young people through programs designed to shape future leaders and innovators, particularly in rural communities. Last week, 4-H launched a campaign called “Grow True Leaders,” which seeks to replicate 4-H’s success in rural communities in urban areas. The program’s new initiative hopes to reach a broader, more diverse population, impacting more African American and Hispanic children. ###
04.20.2016	04.20.16 Gardner, Peters, Booker Introduce Bipartisan Legislation to Improve Efforts to Predict, Respond To Space Weather Events WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO), Gary Peters (D-MI), and Cory Booker (D-NJ) introduced the Space Weather Research and Forecasting Act, bipartisan legislation to improve efforts to predict and mitigate the effects of space weather events, which can have significant economic and security implications, on Earth and in space. The legislation will strengthen space weather research and response by delineating clear roles and responsibilities to the agencies that study and predict space weather events, including the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), the National Science Foundation (NSF), and the Department of Defense (DOD). Space weather events are caused by constantly changing conditions in the Sun’s magnetic fields and have the potential to disrupt the electric power grid, communications networks, GPS, satellites and aircraft operations leading to serious economic and safety consequences. These events can impact infrastructure and businesses, including causing outages at electric utilities, disrupting GPS and communication networks, and forcing airlines to reroute air traffic, resulting in multi-million dollar economic damages. Estimates for damages from a worst-case scenario space weather event could be up to $2 trillion and impact as many as 40 million people. “Because space weather may have severe implications for our economic and national security as well as the potential to interrupt the delivery of essential services, it’s important that we prioritize the research and development necessary to reduce the risk and allow our nation to react and recover from these events,” said Gardner. “Space weather events have the potential to cost our economy trillions of dollars in lost productivity by interfering with infrastructure that’s critical to our everyday lives - from our electrical power grid and GPS satellites to air traffic control,” said Peters. “We must ensure that we have the tools and resources to research and predict these events, and protect our nation’s infrastructure so we can avoid an economic catastrophe in the event of severe space weather.” “It may be hard to conceive of the impact space weather can have on our planet, but make no mistake, extreme space weather events can cause catastrophic damage to our nation’s infrastructure and economy,” said Booker. “This bill will help us to prepare, predict, and mitigate these extreme events.” The Space Weather Research and Forecasting Act legislation strengthens space weather research by directing federal agencies to develop new tools and technologies to improve forecasting and develop benchmark standards to describe space weather disturbances and their potential impacts to Earth. The legislation also directs NOAA to develop plans to provide a back-up for the aging Solar and Heliospheric Observatory (SOHO) satellite, the only satellite providing imagery of space weather that could impact Earth. Additionally, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) will be directed to use space weather research and information to assess national preparedness for interference from space weather and determine critical infrastructure that may be impacted. "As chair of the 2013 Decadal Survey Committee on Solar and Space Physics, I am delighted this legislation has been introduced and want to thank Senator Peters and Senator Gardner for their leadership. I believe this legislation will be instrumental in helping the nation achieve the kind of operational space weather system that we've long needed. The bill will allow science, engineering, and the applications thereof to contribute to continued U.S. leadership in this area, " said Professor Dan Baker, Director of the Laboratory for Atmospheric Space Physics (LASP) at University of Colorado Boulder. “This first of its kind legislation in regards to space weather demonstrates a solid understanding of the problems and solutions and is a fantastic first step,” said Dr. Scott McIntosh, Director of the High Altitude Observatory. “I am grateful that Senators Peters, Gardner and Booker worked with our community and I thank them for their leadership on this critical national issue.” “Space weather can adversely affect satellites resulting in the loss of critical systems, such as communications, hurricane and severe weather forecasting and GPS or location-based services, that depend on space-based networks and support our daily way of life,” said Tom Stroup, President of the Satellite Industry Association (SIA). “Early warning and prediction of space weather can help mitigate the economic effects both in space and here on the ground. In this regard, SIA and its members support the Space Weather Research and Forecasting Act that codifies several actions identified in the National Space Weather Action Plan.” ###
04.20.2016	04.20.16 Gardner Secures Numerous Colorado Priorities in Energy Bill Washington, DC: The U.S. Senate approved several provisions to the Energy Policy Modernization Act authored by Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), a member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. The bill passed the United States Senate today with a vote of 85-12. “The Energy Policy Modernization Act is a much-needed bipartisan overhaul of our nation’s energy policy and I am proud I was able to secure many provisions that will benefit Colorado,” said Gardner. “This legislation will increase energy efficiency, modernize our electrical grid, and create more jobs in the energy sector. Throughout my career in public service, I have advocated for an all-of-the-above energy strategy and that includes promoting energy efficiency and bringing down costs, and I am pleased I could advance these priorities and shape federal energy policy as a member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee.” Below are Gardner provisions that are included in the Energy Policy Modernization Act, as well as an amendment to the legislation approved by the Senate: Section 1006 – Encourages the use of Energy Savings Performance Contracts (ESPCs) and Utility Energy Savings Contracts (UESCs) in federal buildings. ESPCs and UESCs are innovative public-private partnerships in which private companies use their own money and resources to make energy efficiency upgrades to federal buildings. The private companies receive a portion of money saved as a result of the increased efficiency in federal buildings. Section 3002 – Reauthorizes an existing Department of Energy (DOE) program that provides funding to retrofit existing dams and river conduits with electricity-generating technology. According to DOE reports, there are up to 12 gigawatts of untapped hydropower development within the nation’s existing dam infrastructure, and only 3 percent of the United States’ 80,000 dams are used to generate clean hydroelectric power. Section 2201 – Expedites the approval of liquefied natural gas (LNG) export applications, helping supply our allies overseas with a secure energy source and creating American jobs. Section 4101 – Commissions the study of the feasibility and potential benefits of an energy-water center of excellence within the DOE's National Laboratories. A center of excellence would aid in efforts to establish a comprehensive approach for managing energy and water resources in the future. Section 4204 – Allows the Secretary of Energy to establish “microlabs,” or smaller facilities which would be connected to an existing national lab. This would help bring the important research and innovation being done by our national laboratories closer to where business owners, local governments, and communities can access them. Amendment 2970 – Mandatory federal audits already outline energy savings projects for federal facilities aimed at reducing energy consumption and saving tax dollars; however, federal agencies are currently not required to implement these changes. The amendment was unanimously approved and would require federal agencies to make the changes found in the energy audits at no cost to the taxpayer. Other significant provision that were included with Gardner support: Section 5002 – Permanently reauthorizes the Land and Water Conservation Fund which is a critical source of funding for protecting America and Colorado’s natural treasures. Murkowski Amendment 3234 – Includes a Natural Resources Title to the underlying bill, which includes Colorado lands bills, such as a federal land exchange where the Forest Service would acquire pristine land in the Pike National Forest allowing for more outdoor recreation near Pikes Peak, and the Wedge Act which aids the Forest Service in acquiring several parcels of land adjacent to the Rocky Mountain National Park. The Wedge Act would help preserve critical wildlife habitat, Colorado River headwaters, and a highly visible viewshed. The amendment also provides the ability for states, like Colorado, to get reimbursed from the National Park Service for keeping certain parks open during the 2013 government shutdown. Finally, the amendment includes the Sportsmen’s Act, which includes Gardner’s language promoting transparency in the Judgment Fund, which contains the money paid out by the federal government for some lawsuits. Heller Amendment 3286 – Streamlines and improves permitting of renewable energy projects on federal lands by cutting red tape for development on these lands. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
04.19.2016	04.19.16 Gardner Measures Included in Energy and Water Appropriations Bill Washington, DC – This week, the Senate will begin debate on the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development appropriations bill that includes funding for two priorities championed by Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), the Arkansas Valley Conduit Project and the National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL). “I’m pleased I was able to secure funding for two Colorado priorities in the Senate Energy and Water Appropriations bill,” said Gardner. “The Arkansas Valley Conduit project will lead to cleaner, safer water in Colorado, and that’s why I’ve introduced legislation and advocated for funding through the appropriations process to assist in covering the cost of construction. Additionally, NREL is responsible for cutting-edge research, and it’s important that we provide NREL with resources required to explore clean energy innovation. With a Republican majority in Congress, I’m proud we have returned to regular order and I’m hopeful we can continue moving through the appropriations process.” Background: Gardner introduced a bill that directs revenue collected from existing Fryingpan-Arkansas project facilities to the Southeastern Colorado Water Conservancy District for Arkansas Valley Conduit construction costs. Authorized in the 1960s, the Arkansas Valley Conduit project in Southeast Colorado will deliver clean drinking water to local communities across the region upon completion. This bill extends greater flexibility to the Southeastern Colorado Water Conservancy District by allowing the maximum use of miscellaneous revenue collected from the Fryingpan-Arkansas Project to be immediately reinvested into the Arkansas Valley Conduit once construction begins. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
04.19.2016	04.19.16 Gardner, Shaheen Applaud Secretary Jewell's Announcement of a Federal Effort to Measure the Impact of Outdoor Recreation Economy **Gardner and Shaheen introduced legislation requiring a public federal assessment on the economic impact of outdoor recreation** Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH) welcomed the announcement by U.S. Secretary of the Interior Sally Jewell this afternoon, that the Federal Recreation Council will work with the Commerce Department’s Bureau of Economic Analysis to assess the economic impact of the outdoor recreation industry. Last year, Shaheen and Gardner introduced the Outdoor REC (Recreation’s Economic Contributions) Act, bipartisan legislation that called for this assessment to help inform policy makers and business leaders on the jobs created, and the consumer spending driven by, the outdoor recreation economy. “I’m pleased the Department of Commerce is taking steps toward producing an Outdoor Recreation Economic Report, which will provide much-needed insight into the impact recreation has on our economy,” said Gardner. “I’ve been working with Senator Shaheen on the Outdoor REC Act, and this is important to understanding that outdoor recreation is a pillar of economic livelihood for our local communities in Colorado and across the nation. I look forward to reviewing the report, and am hopeful it will allow lawmakers to make better informed policy decisions related to the outdoor industry.” “In New Hampshire, outdoor recreation is a critical sector of our economy,” said Shaheen. “It’s long overdue that policy makers had the information they need to properly take into account the impact the outdoor recreation industry has on job creation and economic growth. In the Granite State, we know that preserving our natural treasures isn’t just good for the environment; it’s also a smart move for our economy, and today’s announcement will help lawmakers and businesses better understand that across the nation.” Currently, the federal government, through research conducted at the Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA), doesn’t measure the economic impact of outdoor recreation, despite independent estimates that this sector generates $646 billion in consumer spending each year and supports 6.1 million jobs. The effort announced today will highlight the importance of outdoor recreation as a distinct component of the economy, and better inform lawmakers as they consider policies that will impact the outdoor recreation industry. ###
04.19.2016	04.19.16 Senate Approves FAA Bill with Gardner Provisions Washington, DC – The U.S. Senate today approved the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Reauthorization Act, which included several provisions introduced by Sen. Cory Gardner (R-CO), a member of the Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee. “Our nation’s airspace is one of the most important economic drivers we have in the movement of passengers and cargo. Maintaining our aviation infrastructure is critical as communities in Colorado and across the country continue to realize the full economic potential that access to the airspace brings,” said Gardner. “That’s why I’m pleased this bill includes several provisions that would lead to the enhancement of our airport infrastructure, including much-needed changes to the Airport Improvement Program.” “The bill includes language I pushed for to allow for critical improvements to be made to Pena Boulevard, the primary access road connecting DIA with the rest of Colorado. The legislation also contains language I championed that builds on a successful pilot program for virtual towers and ensures these towers will be eligible for funding once certified by the FAA. This is important because virtual towers will allow for small and medium sized airports, like the Fort Collins-Loveland Airport in Colorado, to be able to offer commercial service in an economically viable and sustainable way. Lastly, it includes important certification reforms that will improve the processing of new aircraft designs and modifications at the FAA,” Gardner added. “Just as the Senate passed comprehensive education reform and the first long-term highway bill to fix our roads and bridges in years, I’m proud that we came together once again to approve this important legislation that includes Colorado priorities and promotes safety, strong infrastructure, and innovation.” Background: In June of 2014, at the request of Gardner’s office when he was a Member of the House of Representatives, the Department of Transportation Inspector General issued a report stating that the Denver FAA office had one of the longest waitlists in the country for certification approvals and that only 6 certifications had been issued in over four years. While the IG has since reported that changes have been made at the Denver office, this situation pointed to the need to improve and streamline the certification process and the Senate-approved FAA bill includes those reforms. Gardner secured several provisions in the reauthorization legislation before it passed out of the Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee and was sent to the Senate floor: Pena Boulevard Fix – Requires the FAA to allow airports to pay for the costs of maintaining and improving an airport access road on a proportional level based on the level of airport traffic on the road. Increased UAS Penalties – Increases penalties on individuals operating drones who violate restricted areas. Certification Reforms – Includes widely supported certification reforms to address long processing times. Remote Tower Program – Continues the pilot program for remote towers utilized by Fort Collins-Loveland Airport and includes language stating that remote tower technology is eligible for Airport Improvement Program (AIP) funds upon FAA certification. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
04.18.2016	04.18.16 Gardner and Colleagues Urge FERC to Approve Jordan Cove Project Washington, DC: Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today he joined Senator Barrasso (R-WY) and his Rocky Mountain delegation colleagues in sending a letter to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) Chairman Norman Bay and Commissioners Cheryl LaFleur, Tony Clark, and Colette Honorable regarding FERC’s decision to deny the Jordan Cove and Pacific Connector Pipeline project application to build a LNG pipeline and export terminal in Coos Bay, Oregon. In the letter, Gardner and his colleagues urge FERC to grant Jordan Cove’s rehearing request and approve the project. The letter reads in part: Last month, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) denied Jordan Cove’s application for a certificate of public convenience and necessity for the Pacific Connector Pipeline, citing “little or no evidence of need for the…Pipeline.” FERC went on to find that “without a pipeline…, the proposed Jordan Cove LNG Terminal can provide no benefit to the public.” FERC’s action was “without prejudice” and thus allows Jordan Cove to ask FERC to reconsider its decision and show a market need for the Project. Since FERC’s denial, Jordan Cove has signed commercial agreements for over 75 percent of the pipeline’s gas and 50 percent of the export terminal’s LNG. We believe these agreements demonstrate the need for and public benefits of the Jordan Cove Project and ask that you grant Jordan Cove’s rehearing request. … Natural gas production serves as a foundation to the economies of Rocky Mountain states, including Colorado, Utah, and Wyoming, and Indian tribes, including the Ute Indian Tribe and the Southern Ute Indian Tribe. However, market conditions have recently led to a severe drop in employment in the oil and gas sector. In Wyoming, the oil and gas sector lost 4,800 extraction and support jobs from December 2014 to February 2016. According to the latest data, Colorado and Utah have seen similar job losses. From January 2015 to September 2015, the oil and gas sector in Colorado lost over 900 extraction jobs and, from September 2014 to September 2015, the oil and gas sector in Utah lost over 300 extraction jobs. Jordan Cove offers our communities a rare opportunity to access overseas markets, boost production, and stem ongoing job losses. The full text of the letter can be found here. Senator Gardner has been a long-time advocate of the Jordan Cove LNG export facility, sending letters of support in 2013 and 2015. The project is supported by Governor Hickenlooper, the Southern Ute Indian Tribe, Associated Governments of Northwest Colorado, Rio Blanco County, and the Colorado Oil and Gas Association among others. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
04.14.2016	04.14.16 Gardner Supports Bill to Improve Veterans Choice Program Washington, DC: Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today announced he is cosponsoring the Veterans Choice Improvement Act, a bill that addresses the systemic issues plaguing the Veteran’s Choice Program. This legislation makes the Choice Program permanent, ensures it is funded in advance, and consolidates the litany of existing programs. The legislation also encourages non-VA providers to participate in the program by instituting a new claims processing system to ensure medical providers are properly reimbursed in a timely manner. “Congress passed the Choice Program with the goal of fixing the broken system and improving veterans’ access to care. Unfortunately, the agency’s mismanagement of this program has led to denial of care or delayed care for many Colorado veterans,” said Gardner. “I have repeatedly called on the VA to address the Choice Program’s poor implementation, and the Veterans Choice Improvement Act aims to solve the problems facing the VA by consolidating confusing programs, resolving claims processing issues, and allowing veterans to see their local providers. I will continue to work with my colleagues to hold the VA accountable and find solutions that will provide veterans with the health care they need and deserve.” Background: Gardner has pressed for VA accountability since before his time in the Senate. Recently, he spoke out against the VA’s poor implementation of the Choice Program. In February, Gardner sent a letter to VA Secretary Robert McDonald demanding answers from the VA after receiving a number of complaints about the VA’s failure to reimburse medical providers for their services to veterans in a timely manner. Gardner released a statement in March urging the VA to continue to improve the Choice Program and bring real change that benefits veterans. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
04.14.2016	04.14.16 Gardner Champions Colorado Priorities Included in FAA Bill on Senate Floor Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), a member of the Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee, took to the Senate floor today to support the Federal Aviation Administration Reauthorization Act. Gardner announced many Colorado priorities included in the legislation and spoke about them today on the floor. Click here to watch Senator Gardner’s remarks. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
04.14.2016	04.14.16 Gardner, Bennet Introduce Resolution Celebrating Cheyenne Mountain’s 50th Anniversary Washington, DC – Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Michael Bennet (D-CO) introduced a Senate Resolution designating April 20, 2016 as Cheyenne Mountain Day to celebrate the facility’s 50th anniversary. Cheyenne Mountain Air Force Station in Colorado Springs, Colorado is home to elements of North American Aerospace Defense Command (NORAD), the 21st Space Wing, and the 721st Mission Support Group. “For decades, the Cheyenne Mountain facility has played a vital role in our country’s national defense and I am proud to celebrate its 50th anniversary,” said Gardner. “It is an honor for the great state of Colorado to host such an important military operations center and I will continue to do everything I can to support the base, along with the uniformed service members and civilians who work at Cheyenne Mountain and sacrifice so much for our country.” “Cheyenne Mountain Air Force Station is critical to our homeland defense and global security,” Bennet said. “On April 20, we’ll celebrate the 50th anniversary of one of the country’s most vital national security assets. We’ll continue to do everything we can to support its missions and the men and women serving there.” ###
04.13.2016	04.13.16 Gardner Announces Three FAA Grants to Benefit Colorado Airports Washington, DC: Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today the United States Department of Transportation (DOT) awarded three separate Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) grants to Colorado airports. Fremont County Airport will receive $223,675 for taxiway rehabilitation, Montrose Regional Airport will receive $614,045 for taxiway rehabilitation, and Durango-LaPlata County Airport will receive $150,000 for runway rehabilitation. “I am pleased the Department of Transportation and Federal Aviation Administration awarded Colorado airports federal grants to improve the airports in three separate counties,” said Gardner. “These local airports serve Colorado communities across our great state and it is important they receive the necessary funds to be properly maintained. I will continue to advocate for Colorado communities at the federal level and ensure our state has the resources it needs.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
04.11.2016	04.11.16 Gardner Introduces Amendment to Strengthen Airport Security Operations Washington, DC – U.S. Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today introduced an amendment that requires the Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) to establish a pilot program to improve the physical layout of security screening operations at airports. The Administrator may provide financial assistance to airports in the form of long-term funding obligations through letters of intent, and must complete the program before December 31, 2019. “The recent attack in Brussels raised concerns about potential vulnerabilities in security operations at U.S. airports, and particularly at Denver International Airport,” said Gardner. “This amendment directs the Administrator of TSA to establish a pilot program to assist airports to strengthen their security screening operations. It represents an important step toward safer airports in Colorado and throughout the country.” Background: The TSA Administrator testified before the Senate Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, of which Gardner is a member, and stated that moving airport security at Denver International Airport (DIA) could serve as a prototype for airports across the country and present an opportunity to update security operations. Gardner received a letter from DIA discussing the possibility of moving security to a safer location in the airport. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
04.08.2016	04.08.16 Gardner Meets with Lead Treasury Department Official to Enforce U.S. Sanctions Washington, DC – U.S. Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today met with U.S. Department of Treasury Acting Under Secretary for Terrorism and Financial Intelligence Adam Szubin, who is the official primarily responsible for enforcing United States economic sanctions policy. As Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cyber Security Policy, Gardner asked for status of the implementation of his North Korea sanctions legislation, Treasury’s actions to counter Iran’s recent ballistic missile tests and other nefarious activities, and an update on sanctions policy toward Burma as they relate to the political transition in the country. “I appreciate the opportunity to meet with Acting Under Secretary Szubin to discuss the important role of U.S. sanctions,” said Gardner. “I encouraged him to fully implement my North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act and particularly, to apply sanctions on foreign entities that contribute to North Korea’s illicit activities, which has not occurred to date. Furthermore, I reiterated my staunch opposition to the President’s bad deal with Iran, and my growing concern over the regime’s recent ballistic missiles tests. Iran’s increasing belligerence requires decisive action, and that’s why I urged additional, tough sanctions on the regime, including ensuring that Iran never has access to the U.S. financial system or the use of the U.S. dollar in financial transactions outside of the U.S. Acting Under Secretary Szubin pledged cooperation on all of these issues, and I look forward to continuing an open dialogue with the Treasury Department to fully implement U.S. sanctions policy.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
04.07.2016	04.07.16 Gardner Urges FRA Administrator to Visit Colorado Regarding Train Horn Noise Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) sent a letter to Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) Administrator Sarah Feinberg urging her to visit Colorado to meet with the local communities impacted by train horn noise throughout the state. The letter reads in full: Dear Administrator Feinberg: Thank you for the Federal Railroad Administration’s (FRA) recent decision to conduct a retrospective review of train horn regulations. As the FRA conducts this review, I write to ask you to visit Colorado and for the Administration to conduct public meetings in my state in order to hear from communities being impacted by this regulation in its current form. Colorado is home to several cities and towns where main line freight railroad infrastructure is integrated as part of the city grid. Many of these communities have numerous public grade crossings which necessitate train horn use. The confluence of these main lines with public grade crossings combined with FRA regulations requiring railroad engineers to sound a train horn for at least 15 seconds has proven to have a negative impact on Front Range communities in my state. With this retrospective review under way, we share the goal of developing an effective rule that prioritizes safety while considering the unique circumstances facing cities and towns with rail lines running through their city centers. I believe you visiting Colorado and the FRA conducting a public forum would serve as a great opportunity to hear from these communities directly. Thank you for your consideration and I look forward to your prompt response. Background: On March 4, 2016, Gardner announced the FRA is reopening the train horn rule for public comment. The public comment period will last for 120 days before the FRA will make a final decision on whether to change the existing rule. The current train horn rule, which went into effect in 2005, has had significant impacts on communities along Colorado’s Front Range. Gardner sent a letter to Administrator Feinberg on December 11, 2015 expressing disappointment the agency denied a quiet-zone waiver for Fort Collins and asked the FRA to reopen the train horn rule. He followed up with a letter on December 18, 2015 asking the Administrator to meet with Front Range communities that have been negatively impacted by this rule. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
04.06.2016	04.06.16 Gardner, Tipton Urge Secretary Jewell to Finalize Trapper Mine Environmental Assessment Washington, DC – Sen. Cory Gardner (CO-R), and Congressman Scott Tipton (CO-3) today sent a letter to United States Interior Department Secretary Sally Jewell urging her to finalize the Trapper Mine Environmental Assessment before the April 30, 2016 deadline. The letter reads in full: Dear Secretary Jewell: We write today to urge a timely review and approval of the Proposed Action and Mine Plan at the Trapper Mine in Craig, Colorado. We are encouraged by the progress being made on the Environmental Assessment (EA) and reiterate the importance of ensuring the process meets the prescribed timeline. Coal fills a vital role in Colorado’s electric generation portfolio, currently accounting for 60 percent of the state’s total generation. The Trapper Mine specifically provides about 50 percent of the total fuel for the Craig Power Generating Station, which is a critical regional electric generation unit. Both the mine and the power station are crucial to Northwest Colorado’s economic viability, as they are two of the region’s largest employers and contributors of revenues to state and local coffers. Further, the Trapper Mine has an outstanding track record for reclamation and preventing offsite impacts. The recommended course of action from the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement (OSMRE) is a Finding of No Significant Impact (FONSI). We believe a thoughtful and detailed analysis of the Trapper Mine and its impacts has occurred through this EA process, and urge you to finalize the EA on or before the deadline of April 30, 2016. Thank you for your time and attention to this matter. Should you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact our offices. ###
04.06.2016	04.06.16 Senate Begins Debate on FAA Bill That Includes Gardner Provisions Washington, DC – The U.S. Senate began debate on the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) reauthorization legislation, which included several provisions introduced by Sen. Cory Gardner (R-CO), a member of the Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee. “As the first Senator from Colorado on the Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee in nearly 40 years, I am pleased I was able to secure several provisions that are good for Colorado and Americans across the country in the reauthorization legislation that is before the Senate,” said Gardner. “I look forward to a full and open debate, and am hopeful that my colleagues will come together to approve much-needed legislation that includes updates and improvements to keep our airports functional and Americans safe in the air and on the ground.” Below are measures Gardner pushed for inclusion in the reauthorization legislation that passed out of the Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee: • Pena Boulevard Fix – Requires the FAA to allow airports to pay for the costs of maintaining and improving an airport access road on a proportional level based on the level of airport traffic on the road. • Increased UAS Penalties – Increases penalties on individuals operating drones who violate restricted areas. • Certification Reforms – Includes widely supported certification reforms to address long processing times. • Remote Tower Program – Continues the pilot program for remote towers utilized by Fort Collins-Loveland Airport and includes language stating that remote tower technology is eligible for Airport Improvement Program (AIP) funds upon FAA certification. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
04.06.2016	04.06.16 Gardner Introduces Measure to Prevent Transfer of GTMO Detainees to U.S. Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today introduced an amendment to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) reauthorization legislation that prohibits the use of federal airspace for flights transferring detainees from Guantanamo Bay, Cuba to the United States. “At a recent town hall that focused on national security issues in Florence, CO, Coloradans and local law enforcement expressed grave concerns about the Administration’s apparent willingness to circumvent current law and bring Guantanamo Bay detainees to the United States,” said Gardner. “I pledged that I will continue to work with my colleagues to prevent the Obama Administration from moving forward to fulfill a political promise that will compromise our national security. This amendment explicitly prevents the Administration from using federal airspace to fly the detainees from Cuba to the United States, and serves as another avenue to stop the transfer of terrorists to our backyards.” Background: • Gardner recently joined his GOP colleagues in introducing legislation that would prohibit the transfer or release of Guantanamo Bay detainees to global terror havens, including all countries designated by the United States Department of State as state sponsors of terrorism, currently Iran, Syria, and Sudan. Current U.S. law already prohibits transfers to Yemen, Libya, Somalia, and Syria, but not to Iran and Sudan, where 14 detainees have been transferred over the past decade. • In March, Gardner hosted a town hall in Florence, Colorado focused on national security issues. Local elected officials, including members of the law enforcement community, and other local leaders joined Gardner in Fremont County to discuss issues including the potential transfer of Guantanamo detainees to Colorado and growing instability in the Middle East. • Following the recent announcement that U.S. Special Forces captured an ISIS leader, Gardner and his GOP colleagues introduced a resolution urging the Administration to transfer detained ISIS fighters to Guantanamo Bay. • In March, Gardner introduced a resolution formally rejecting President Obama’s plan to transfer prisoners from the Guantanamo Bay detention facilities to an alternate location in American communities, which is explicitly prohibited by law. • Gardner is a cosponsor of the Naval Station Guantanamo Bay Protection Act, a bill that prevents the President from terminating or modifying the Naval Base at Guantanamo Bay’s lease without Congressional approval. • Gardner visited the Guantanamo Bay detention facility and upon his return to the U.S., reiterated his opposition to the transfer of the detainees to American soil. • Several Obama Administration officials, including Department of Defense Secretary Ash Carter and Attorney General Loretta Lynch, have stated that current law prevents the transfer of Guantanamo Bay detainees to the United States. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
04.05.2016	04.05.16 Gardner Questions Obama Administration Policy on Iran’s Ballistic Missile Program Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) questioned the Honorable Thomas A. Shannon, Jr., Under Secretary for Political Affairs at the United States Department of State, at a Senate Foreign Relations Committee hearing today focused on Iran’s recent ballistic missile tests and the implementation of the Iran nuclear deal. Gardner continues to hold the Obama Administration accountable when it comes to Iran’s ballistic missile tests in violation of numerous United Nations Sanctions. Click here to watch the exchange Background: • Gardner has been a vocal opponent of the President’s deal with Iran. • Before the deal was reached, Gardner warned about the dangers of a nuclear Iran and denounced the deal when it was announced as a “bad deal with the murderous Iranian regime.” • In October, Gardner asked Secretary Kerry whether the Administration believed Iranian ballistic missile launches violated a U.N. ban, and in December, Gardner urged action against Iran for its repeated violations of ballistic missile test bans. • Gardner joined his Republican colleagues in introducing two bills, the Iran Ballistic Missile Sanctions Act and the Iran Terrorism and Human Rights Act, that would impose tough sanctions on Iran in response to the regime’s ballistic missile tests and human rights abuses. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510
04.05.2016	04.05.16 Gardner Introduces Resolution to Prohibit Transfer of GTMO Detainees to State Sponsors of Terror Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) joined Sen. Mark Kirk (R-IL) and his Republican colleagues in introducing legislation that would prohibit the transfer or release of Guantanamo Bay detainees to global terror havens, including all countries designated by the United States Department of State as state sponsors of terrorism, currently Iran, Syria, and Sudan. Current U.S. law already prohibits transfers to Yemen, Libya, Somalia, and Syria, but not to Iran and Sudan, where 14 detainees have been transferred over the past decade. “The President’s rush to fulfill a campaign promise by the end of his term means an accelerated release of Guantanamo Bay detainees,” said Gardner. “The Administration’s release of these prisoners to state sponsors of terrorism threatens our national security at a time when we lack a real strategy to defeat ISIS and know that many prisoners who have already been released have re-joined the fight against the West,” said Gardner. “The threat of Guantanamo Bay detainees returning to the battlefield is one of the many reasons I oppose the closure of the facility, and this legislation explicitly prohibits the transfer or release of prisoners to all countries we know support terrorist activities. It’s commonsense, and I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting it.” Background: According to the National Director of Intelligence, approximately 30 percent of the detainees released prior to 2015 either have or are suspected to have returned to fight against the United States. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
04.04.2016	04.04.16 Gardner Joins CDOT, Local Leaders in Welcoming I-25 Expansion Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today joined the Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT) and local officials in ribbon–cutting ceremony marking the end of construction of the North I-25 Express Lanes between US 36 and 120th Avenue. Photos of the ceremony can be found here. “I join Coloradans in celebrating an important accomplishment for Colorado’s transportation infrastructure and welcoming the much anticipated opening of the I-25 express lanes,” said Gardner. “I was proud to support the six-year reauthorization of the highway bill, which included several key provisions that benefit Colorado and allow for the expansion of I-25. I look forward to continuing to work with CDOT, local elected officials, and my colleagues to meet our long-term infrastructure challenges in Colorado and along the Front Range.” Background: Gardner, a member of the Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee, secured several provisions in the Highway Bill, including improvements to the Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (TIFIA). Gardner worked with his colleagues to ensure three Colorado road projects, including the future expansion of I-25, would be able to use TIFIA and move forward with construction. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
04.04.2016	04.04.16 Gardner Leads the Charge for a Stronger, Safer America Washington, DC – During the state work period, Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, traveled abroad and met with Coloradans to discuss national security threats facing the United States. “From my conversations with both foreign leaders and Coloradans, it is evident that many people both at home and abroad share my concerns when it comes to the grave national security challenges our country faces,” said Gardner. “From the growing instability in the Middle East to the potential transfer of Guantanamo Bay detainees to the United States, it’s clear that these evolving security threats require a more robust security strategy. America can no longer lead from behind, and that’s why I will continue to support policies that will lead to a stronger, safer America.” Gardner spoke with Coloradans who voiced many of the same concerns foreign leaders expressed about the growing threat of global terrorism, including the recent ISIS attacks in Brussels. At a town hall focused on national security issues, local elected officials, including members of the law enforcement community, joined Gardner in Fremont County where he addressed North Korea's growing aggression, the threat ISIS poses, the President's failed foreign policy strategy, and the potential transfer of Guantanamo Bay detainees to Colorado. Gardner recently traveled to Guantanamo Bay, Cuba to visit the detention facility, and spoke with Colorado Sheriffs and local prison employees who continue to express significant concerns about the possible transfer of Guantanamo Bay detainees to Colorado. Gardner also traveled to Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and Israel. In Qatar and Saudi Arabia, he met with top security officials and national leaders, including the Emir of Qatar, Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani, and the King of Saudi Arabia, King Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud. In Israel, Gardner met with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Palestinian chief negotiator Saeb Erekat.‎ Conversations with these foreign leaders highlight the importance of international cooperation to defeat ISIS and addressing the growing instability in the Middle East. Background: Gardner has been a vocal opponent of the President’s deal with Iran. Before the deal was reached, Gardner warned about the dangers of a nuclear Iran and denounced the deal when it was announced as a “bad deal with the murderous Iranian regime.” In October, Gardner asked Secretary Kerry whether the Administration believed Iranian ballistic missile launches violated a U.N. ban, and in December, Gardner urged action against Iran for its repeated violations of ballistic missile test bans. Gardner joined his Republican colleagues in introducing two bills, the Iran Ballistic Missile Sanctions Act and the Iran Terrorism and Human Rights Act, that would impose tough sanctions on Iran in response to the regime’s ballistic missile tests and human rights abuses. Gardner joined his colleagues in sending a letter to President Obama urging him to pursue additional military options to fight ISIS. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
03.31.2016	03.31.16 Gardner Announces USDA Grant for Flood Restoration and Mitigation Projects in Colorado Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today announced the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) Emergency Watershed Protection (EWP) program will make $10,240,800 available to Colorado Springs and Manitou Springs for the purposes of restoration and flood mitigation after severe weather impacted the region last year. Gardner sent a letter on July 10, 2015 to President Obama requesting federal assistance for several counties in Colorado impacted by significant weather events. “I am pleased the Department of Agriculture has recognized Colorado’s need for federal assistance that will be used to restore the region and make infrastructure improvements to protect local communities from future flooding,” said Gardner. “Colorado Springs and Manitou Springs experienced recent flooding that devastated these localities. The impacts from the Waldo Canyon fire only made the problem worse. Western communities need flexibility to cope with the unique challenges they face, and I am pleased this grant provides local officials the necessary funds to address flooding as they see fit.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
03.30.2016	03.30.16 Gardner Statement on Burma's Swearing in of Htin Kyaw Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statement after Htin Kyaw was sworn in as Burma's first civilian president in more than 50 years. "I congratulate the Burmese people for taking a significant step toward a representative democracy today," said Gardner. "I urge the new civilian government to continue on the path of democratic reforms, including minority rights and fundamental freedoms of speech and assembly. I look forward to working with the Administration and my colleagues in Congress to ensure the United States remains a strong and vigilant partner as Burma's democratic path continues. " ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
03.28.2016	03.28.16 Gardner Concludes National Security Town Hall in Florence, CO Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today hosted a town hall in Florence, Colorado focused on national security issues. Local elected officials, including members of the law enforcement community, and other local leaders joined Gardner in Fremont County. The audience asked Gardner to address North Korea's growing aggression, the potential transfer of Guantanamo Bay detainees to Colorado, and the President's foreign policy strategy. “Local elected officials, law enforcement, and community leaders all contributed to a productive conversation that focused on national security issues in Fremont County,” said Gardner. “From the rise of ISIS, to President Obama’s reckless proposal to transfer Guantanamo Bay detainees to the United States, our country faces significant national security challenges. Keeping Coloradans safe is my top priority and that's why I'll continue to support policies that ensure our security is not undermined and promote a stronger, safer America.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
03.26.2016	03.26.16 Gardner Concludes Congressional Delegation Trip to Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Israel Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) concluded a Congressional delegation trip to Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and Israel. In Qatar and Saudi Arabia, the Senator met with top security officials and national leaders, including the Emir Qatar, Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani, and the King of Saudi Arabia, King Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud. In Israel, the Senator met with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Palestinian chief negotiator Saeb Erekat.‎ “Our discussions with heads of state and national security leaders in Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and Israel highlighted the importance of international cooperation to defeat ISIL and addressing the growing instability in the Middle East, which in part can be attributed to an increasingly belligerent Iran,” said Gardner. “Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu and several leaders in the region expressed many concerns that I share regarding Iran’s compliance with the nuclear agreement. The United States must do everything in its power to protect our friend and ally, Israel, and to assure all our allies that we are committed to ending terror and radicalism with strong U.S. leadership." ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
03.23.2016	03.23.16 Gardner Statement on Obamacare Anniversary Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statement on the sixth anniversary of the Affordable Care Act: “Six years have passed since the President signed his signature legislation into law, yet Coloradans and Americans across the country continue to suffer from the effects of the law’s many broken promises. President Obama said that under his law, ‘if you like your health care plan, you will be able to keep your health care plan, period.’ He promised to ‘lower premiums by $2,500 for a typical family per year’ and ‘protect Medicare.’ Above all, he said Obamacare means ‘more choice, more competition, lower costs for millions of Americans.’ Instead, premiums have skyrocketed, millions of health care plans have been cancelled, Medicare has been significantly cut, and Americans have lost doctors they trust and been left with fewer choices. Just this past year, the co-op in Colorado collapsed, leaving more than 80,000 people without insurance and taxpayers on the hook for millions of dollars in loans,” said Gardner. “The past six years have been marked by crisis after crisis stemming from the President’s failed law. That’s not the health care reform that Americans were promised. It’s time for real health care solutions that lower costs, increase choice, and protect the doctor-patient relationship.” ###
03.22.2016	03.22.16 Gardner Reacts to VA’s Response to Review of Denver Hospital Project "The VA's proposed actions suggest that as long as you leave the VA before the massive bureaucracy determines you did something wrong, you are off the hook" Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statement after the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) announced action and proposed actions against four individuals at the Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) following the Administrative Investigation Board's (AIB) review. Additionally, the VA stated that prior to the AIB’s review, three individuals in key leadership positions for the Denver Hospital project were reassigned, and two individuals are no longer employed by the department. “Based off of the VA’s response to its systemic failures that led to the mismanagement of the Aurora hospital project, it appears that federal employment comes with a get out of jail free card. The VA's proposed actions suggest that as long as you leave the VA before the massive bureaucracy determines you did something wrong, you are off the hook,” said Gardner. “In addition to the Office of Inspector General report, the VA must release the Administrative Investigation Board’s results that served as the basis for the VA’s proposed actions. I’ll continue to press for real accountability from the VA that veterans deserve, and won’t settle for anything less." ###
03.22.2016	03.22.16 Gardner Statement on Brussels Attacks Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statement on the attacks in Brussels. “Our hearts are with all of those in Brussels, particularly the victims and their loved ones,” said Gardner. “We stand in solidarity with Belgium, our friend and ally, and join the world in mourning the loss of innocent life as a result of these senseless, malicious attacks for which ISIS has claimed responsibility. It is more clear now than ever that the United States cannot wait any longer to develop an aggressive strategy to address the rise of ISIS and the growing instability in the Middle East.” ###
03.18.2016	03.18.16 Gardner Supports Tougher Sanctions on Iran “I urge my colleagues to join us in addressing the consequences of the President’s bad deal with Iran” Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) joined his Republican colleagues in introducing two bills that would impose tough sanctions on Iran. In response to Iran’s ballistic missile violations, the Iran Ballistic Missile Sanctions Act sanctions individuals who directly and indirectly contribute to Iran’s ballistic missile program as well as entities controlled by Iran’s key ballistic missile organizations. The Iran Terrorism and Human Rights Act aims to counter terrorism and human rights abuses in Iran by sanctioning Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Coups (IGRC) and Mahan Air, an Iranian airline that has contributed to the growth of terrorism. “Instead of achieving a denuclearized Iran, the President’s deal has done just the opposite by providing the regime a patient pathway to a nuclear bomb. Moreover, the President’s dangerous Iran deal has empowered the world’s foremost state sponsor of terror by releasing over $50 billion dollars into its weakened economy. Secretary of State John Kerry has openly admitted that he thinks the money from sanctions relief will end up in the hands of terrorists. Furthermore, Iran has repeatedly made it clear by word and deed that it will not stop its illicit activities, including ballistic missile testing, support for terror, and gross human rights abuses,” said Gardner. “The Iran Ballistic Missile Sanctions Act and the Iran Terrorism and Human Rights Act recognize Iran’s pattern of behavior and strengthens and enhances sanctions against the regime. I urge my colleagues to join us in addressing the consequences of the President’s bad deal with Iran.” A member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Gardner has been a vocal opponent of the President’s deal with Iran. Before the deal was reached, Gardner warned about the dangers of a nuclear Iran, and denounced the deal when it was announced as a “bad deal with the murderous Iranian regime”. After reports of Iranian violations of U.N. sanctions, Gardner sent a letter to President Obama asking for a response to Iran’s violations. On the floor of the Senate, Gardner spoke out about the troubling aspects of the deal and urged his colleagues to reject it. In October, Gardner asked Secretary Kerry whether the Administration believed Iranian ballistic missile launches violated a U.N. ban, and in December, Gardner urged action against Iran for its repeated violations of ballistic missile test bans. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
03.16.2016	03.16.16 Gardner Statement on North Korea Sanctions Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statement after the Obama Administration announced additional sanctions on North Korea through an executive order to implement Gardner’s North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act. Signed into law in February of 2016, the North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act imposes mandatory sanctions on individuals who contribute to North Korea’s nuclear program and proliferation activities, malicious cyberattacks, censorship of its citizens, and the regime’s continued human rights abuses. “The new sanctions against North Korea represent a positive first step toward putting serious pressure on this belligerent regime, and I am encouraged that the Administration has acted swiftly to implement portions of my North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act,” said Gardner. “However, I urge the Administration to expand sanctions designations to cover cybersecurity and human rights violators, as mandated by my legislation, along with actions against non-North Korean entities assisting or doing business with the regime. As Pyongyang’s Forgotten Maniac’s aggression grows, so must the United States’ actions to deter the threat.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
03.16.2016	03.16.16 Gardner Statement on Supreme Court Nominee Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statement after President Obama announced he is nominating Merrick Garland, chief judge of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit, to fulfill the vacancy on the Supreme Court: “We stand at a pivotal point in our nation’s history. The Obama Administration continues to use the judicial and regulatory systems to push through its legislative agenda, shifting the balance of power that our Founders established,” said Gardner. “That is why the next president of the United States should have the opportunity to fill the vacancy on the Supreme Court. In 1992, even then-Senator Joe Biden stated the Senate should not hold confirmation hearings for a Supreme Court nominee until after that year’s presidential election. Our next election is too soon and the stakes are too high; the American people deserve a role in this process as the next Supreme Court Justice will influence the direction of this country for years to come.” Background: In 1992, Senator Joe Biden stated on the Senate floor, “It is my view that if the President goes the way of Presidents [Millard] Fillmore and [Andrew] Johnson, and presses an election year nomination, the Senate Judiciary Committee should seriously consider not scheduling confirmation hearings on the nomination until after the political campaign season is over.” The New York Times previously supported the postponement of a nomination during an election year. In an editorial, the paper wrote, “The President’s supporters insist vehemently that, having won the 1984 election, he has every right to try to change the Court’s direction. Yes, but the Democrats won the 1986 election, regaining control of the Senate, and they have every right to resist. This is not the same Senate that confirmed William Rehnquist as Chief Justice and Antonin Scalia as an associate justice last year.” A Senate of a different party than the President has not confirmed a Supreme Court nominee during a presidential election year since 1888. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
03.15.2016	03.15.16 Gardner Contacts Federal Bureau of Prisons About Staffing Changes at Florence Complex Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) sent a letter to the Acting Director of the Federal Bureau of Prisons, Thomas Kane, expressing concerns with recent staffing changes at the Florence Federal Correctional Complex. He outlines two specific adjustments: the elimination of roster positions that caused the number of staff positions to drop below the number necessary to maintain safe operations at the prison and the continued practice of augmenting posts to avoid paying employees overtime. The letter reads in full: I write today concerning staffing levels at the Florence Federal Correctional Complex (“FCC Florence”). While the Bureau of Prisons (“BOP”) has broad discretion to decide how best to use its limited resources and personnel to carry out its responsibilities, the safety of correctional staff and inmates alike is of paramount importance to me. Recent efforts by management to realize cost savings appear to be threatening the strong culture of safety that the dedicated staff of FCC Florence has worked hard over the years to create. I am troubled by two staffing changes in particular. First, the custody roster for the current quarter, which runs March 13 to June 11, eliminated three different posts, a loss of 15 roster positions in total. In addition to reducing the staff-to-inmate ratio, a common measure of facility safety, the current custody roster dropped the number of staff positions below that of the “mission critical” roster, which the BOP itself has testified is the minimum number of staff necessary to safely operate the prison. Second, the BOP continues to use a practice known as “augmentation” to avoid paying overtime to custody employees. The practice, which takes non-custody staff away from their assigned duties and transfers them to mandatory custody posts, adversely impacts employee morale and goes against a local memorandum of understanding. Moreover, it puts substitute staff in some of the most critical positions. By eliminating and augmenting posts, and operating at below a mission-critical level, the BOP has entered into a course of action that not only is unsustainable, but also threatens the safety of correctional staff, inmates, and the surrounding community. I urge you to work with FCC Florence management and personnel to ensure that the current staffing issues are addressed in a timely and meaningful fashion. Thank you for your attention to this matter. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
03.14.2016	03.14.16 U.S. House of Representatives Approves Gardner Taiwan Legislation Bill Heads to President’s Desk Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy, today released the below statement after the House of Representatives approved his legislation that requires the United States Department of State to develop a strategy to include Taiwan as an observer in the International Criminal Police Organization (INTERPOL). INTERPOL, which consists of 190 counties, is the world’s largest international police organization. Taiwan was a full member of INTERPOL from 1964-1984, until the People’s Republic of China (PRC) applied for membership. “I’m pleased the House of Representatives acted swiftly to pass my legislation, which recognizes Taiwan as our ally and demonstrates the United States’ commitment to this longstanding relationship,” said Gardner. “My legislation urges the State Department to develop a strategy that would allow Taiwan the opportunity to participate in the vital work of the INTERPOL. I thank Senator Cardin and Representative Salmon for their leadership on this issue, and I urge the President to sign this bill into law in order to pave the path for Taiwan to collaborate with the United States and our allies to address today’s challenges that are not just isolated to a country or region, but span the globe.” Background: The Senate approved the legislation on March 9, 2016. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
03.14.2016	03.14.16 Gardner Welcomes VA Community Call Center to Improve Choice Program Washington, DC: Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the below statement after the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) announced it set up a Community Care Call Center to help veterans address billing issues with the Choice Program. The Choice Program is responsible for incorrectly billing veterans, which has led to debt collection and affected credit scores. Veterans who are experiencing payment issues associated with the Choice Program can contact 1-877-881-7618 to reach the Community Care Call Center. “It is unacceptable that veterans’ credit scores have been affected due to negligence at the VA. I have heard from too many Colorado veterans and health care providers who are experiencing issues with the Choice Program’s billing practices and continue to meet roadblocks along the way,” said Gardner. “I am pleased the VA has acted to address its poorly implemented Choice Program that has negatively impacted the very people it was designed to help. While the call center is a step in the right direction, it is not nearly enough. It’s time for the VA to get its act together. I’ll continue to fight for our veterans who deserve nothing but the best possible health care our country has to offer.” Gardner has pressed for VA accountability since before his time in the Senate. Recently, he spoke out against the VA’s poor implementation of the Choice Program. In February, Gardner sent a letter to VA Secretary Robert McDonald demanding answers from the VA after receiving a number of complaints about the VA’s failure to reimburse medical providers for their services to veterans in a timely manner. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
03.14.2016	03.14.16 Gardner Expresses Concern With Proposed Changes to Medicare Advantage Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today sent a letter to the Acting Administrator for the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), Andrew Slavitt, expressing concerns with several proposed changes to the Medicare Advantage (MA) program. Specifically, the Senator writes that the proposed changes to the Risk Adjustment, Employer Group Waiver Plans, and Encounter Data could have a negative impact on more than 250,000 Coloradans who rely on their MA plans. Gardner, troubled that these changes could disrupt the quality of care in the MA program, asks that CMS carefully consider the consequences of the proposed changes to payment and bidding models to ensure stability for beneficiaries in Colorado. The letter reads in full: I write to express concerns with multiple proposed changes in the 2017 Advance Notice that would impact Medicare Advantage (MA). I have serious concerns that these changes could negatively impact beneficiaries, including senior citizens, in my state and strongly encourage your agency to reconsider these proposals. According to Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), more than 17 million seniors and individuals with disabilities enjoy the high quality affordable coverage provided by MA plans. Medicare Advantage plans are an especially popular option in Colorado. That is why I am concerned that the proposed changes to the Risk Adjustment, Employer Group Waiver Plans, and Encounter Data could negatively impact the MA plans of more than 250,000 Coloradans which represents nearly 37 percent of seniors in Colorado who currently enjoy the advantages of MA plans. I am concerned the proposal to change the risk adjustment models could have adverse effects on seniors and individuals with disabilities. Independent analysis of these changes shows an average reduction of nearly two percent in funding as a result. This reduction could weaken early detection and prevention efforts of chronic conditions provided by MA plans. These services have proven to reduce long-term costs to the health care system for high cost individuals, while also improving health outcomes for individuals. Additionally, I ask your agency to carefully consider the consequences of the proposed alterations to payment and bidding models for Employer Group Waiver Plans. These changes have the potential to disrupt the level of care depended on by millions of seniors. Further, I am concerned that your agency acted unilaterally by putting these proposed changes forward when there has been bipartisan opposition to these efforts in the President’s budget request. Lastly, I ask that your agency reconsider the Encounter Data proposal that would raise the percentage of risk calculations from 10 percent to 50 percent. A 2014 GAO report found that encounter data systems have had several unresolved operational problems and limit the ability to receive accurate information on the patient history of our beneficiaries. I urge you to reassess the expansion of encounter data until studies show it can accurately capture beneficiary diagnosis. Any changes to the MA program must maintain stability for the millions of Americans who benefit from the patient-centered, affordable care currently offered. As the final notice is approaching in early April, I strongly recommend that CMS reconsider the proposed changes and preserve program integrity. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
03.10.2016	03.10.16 Gardner Introduces Bill to Rename Denver Stockyards Station Post Office After WWII Veteran Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today announced he introduced legislation to rename the Denver Post Office Stockyards Station after Private George T. Sakato, an Army veteran and member of the 442nd Regimental Combat Team who was awarded the Medal of Honor for his heroic actions on October 29, 1944 in World War II. While under heavy enemy fire, Private Sakato bravely took control of his unit after his platoon leader was killed and selflessly charged the enemy. He inspired fellow soldiers to follow suit and together they destroyed the enemy position. Private Sakato’s full Medal of Honor citation can be found here. Following World War II, Private Sakato assumed a position with the United States Postal Service. After 27 years of service, Private Sakato retired from the Stockyards Station Post Office. “Private Sakato was a true American hero,” said Gardner. “Not only did Private Sakato honorably serve his country in World War II, he also dedicated his life to public service, working for the U.S. Postal Service for nearly three decades. I am proud to introduce legislation, that if enacted and signed into law, will ensure future generations can look to the Denver Stockyards Post Office building and be inspired by someone who represented the best this country has to offer.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
03.10.2016	03.10.16 Gardner Applauds Passage of Drug Addiction Treatment and Prevention Legislation Washington, DC: Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the below statement following the passage of the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act, which promotes drug prevention and education programs, while also increasing treatment and recovery efforts to address the drug addiction crisis in America. According to the Colorado Health Institute, Colorado’s drug-related deaths in 2014 averaged 16.3 per 100,000 residents, exceeding the national average of 14.7 deaths per 100,000 residents. Between 2002 and 2014, drug overdoses have climbed 68 percent in Colorado, and according to the Denver Post, every county in Colorado except Mineral County has witnessed an increase in drug overdose deaths since 2004. “As I travel throughout Colorado, I hear about the devastating impact heroin and opioid addiction has on families and communities across our state,” said Gardner. “From the Eastern Plains to the Western Slope, drug overdose deaths continue to rise. The Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act aims to address the drug addiction crisis and reverse this disturbing trend. A bipartisan, comprehensive approach supported by Colorado law enforcement, mental health providers, and addiction and recovery specialists, this legislation leaves behind the Washington ‘one-size fits all’ approach and encourages states to develop their own strategies to prevent, treat, and reduce this growing epidemic. This legislation is a step in the right direction, and will undoubtedly help Coloradans and Americans across the country who are struggling with addiction.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
03.10.2016	03.10.16 Gardner, GOP Senators Introduce Resolution to Detain ISIL Fighters in Guantanamo Washington, DC — Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today joined Senator Steve Daines (R-MT) and 13 other GOP Senators in introducing a resolution urging the Administration to transfer detained Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) fighters to Guantanamo Bay, Cuba following the recent announcement that U.S. Special Forces captured an ISIL leader while carrying out Operation Inherent Resolve. Senators Jerry Moran (R-KS), Tom Cotton (R-AR), Marco Rubio (R-FL), Mark Kirk (R-IL), Ted Cruz (R-TX), Orrin Hatch (R-UT), Joni Ernst (R-IA), Johnny Isakson (R-GA), John Boozman (R-AR), Pat Roberts (R-KS), Jim Inhofe (R-OK), Tim Scott (R-SC) and David Vitter (R-LA) are all cosponsors of the resolution. “My recent trip to Guantanamo Bay not only confirmed that the detainees should remain there, but also that this facility is tailor-made for enemy combatants,” Senator Gardner stated. “At a time when the Obama Administration lacks a coherent strategy to defeat ISIL, it’s more important now than ever that we use all the tools at our disposal to fight terrorism. Instead of closing Guantanamo Bay, the Administration should transfer detained ISIL fighters to the facility. This resolution paves the way to do just that, while preventing grants of new rights to terrorists.” “Last week when I was at Guantanamo Bay I saw plenty of vacant cells,” Senator Daines stated. “Terrorists captured by U.S. forces belong in Guantanamo, a location that has played a pivotal role for collecting intelligence from detainees and keeping terrorists off the battlefield in the global war on terror. These dangerous individuals do not belong on U.S. soil, or in the custody of a nation that may allow them to return to the battlefield as we have seen before. We must ensure they don’t continue to spread radical Islam throughout the world, and Guantanamo Bay serves an integral purpose for just that.” “My recent visit to Guantanamo Bay reaffirmed my belief that it is the best place to detain individuals who wish to do our nation harm,” Senator Moran stated. “The detention facility is a place to counter the serious national security threats we face across the globe. Captured militants affiliated with ISIL and other terrorist groups are dangerous and should be held at Guantanamo Bay, not in Kansas or anywhere else in the United States.” “Guantanamo Bay is a first-rate detention facility that’s kept terrorists off the battlefield, provided valuable intelligence, and made America safer,” Senator Cotton stated. “President Obama needs to recognize this and begin sending dangerous Islamic State terrorists to Gitmo. Just yesterday, the New York Times reported that an Islamic State terrorist with expertise in chemical weapons was in the custody of U.S. Special Forces. That terrorist should be sent immediately to Guantanamo Bay for detention and interrogation, and not read his Miranda rights or turned over to another nation. Our priority should be stopping terrorists, not providing them with constitutional rights that rightfully belong to the American people they are trying to kill.” “There should be no confusion in the minds of our enemies that, if captured, they will be sent to the detention facility in Guantanamo Bay to be interrogated,” Senator Rubio stated. “More than seven years in, the Obama administration still does not have a coherent detention policy that will give our military and intelligence community the best opportunity to extract valuable intelligence to help defeat ISIS, Al Qaeda and other terrorist networks. This White House would rather release terrorists from Guantanamo Bay and hope for the best. We know recidivism rates are rising as released terrorists return to the fight. This resolution makes it clear what our policy should be.” “With tens of thousands of fighters and the capability to make false passports for infiltrating refugee flows into Europe and the United States, ISIS poses a clear danger to American citizens,” Senator Kirk stated. “No other facility can house terrorists as securely as Guantanamo, which is where we should be sending ISIS terrorists when they are captured by our brave servicemen and servicewomen in the field." “Jihadists who seek to kill Americans should not be brought to American soil. The security of our people, not political expediency, should guide decisions regarding prisoners held at Guantanamo Bay,” Senator Cruz stated. “Ensuring that our national security interests are being protected is only prudent, and Congress should step up and exercise its constitutional authority and detain ISIS fighters at Guantanamo Bay.” “For years, the Obama administration’s single-minded focus on fulfilling a campaign promise to close Guantanamo has hindered the fight against our terrorist enemies,” Senator Hatch stated. “Our facilities at Guantanamo offer a secure, lawful, and humane option for detaining terrorists, and the administration’s misguided ideological agenda should not foreclose its continued use. As we continue combat operations against the Islamic State, the Senate should again make it clear that Guantanamo and other facilities abroad offer the best alternatives for holding terrorists and collecting vital intelligence from them.” “Guantanamo Bay, and the servicemembers at the detention facility, serve an important mission to protect our nation from some of the world’s most dangerous terrorists,” Senator Ernst stated. “We should detain ISIS terrorists at Guantanamo as we cannot afford to release them into Iraqi custody and risk that these terrorists will end up right back on the battlefield. At this time of growing threats, we must work to preserve our operations at this detention facility which is central to our national security interests.” “Our number one priority should be keeping our homeland safe and secure from the threat of radical terrorists, including those from the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant,” Senator Isakson stated. “Unfortunately, the president appears more focused on releasing terrorists to fulfill his political promise to close Guantanamo Bay prison than on going after the very terrorists he should be sending there. We must continue to utilize this critical detention facility in the fight against global terrorism. We must keep those who wish to do us harm off the battlefield and, especially off of American soil.” “Closing Gitmo and transferring detainees to American soil creates needless national security risks and poses unnecessary threats to American citizens,” Senator Boozman stated. “The state-of-the-art facility is more than serving its purpose for detaining the worst of the worst, obtaining valuable intelligence from them and keeping these terrorists who are bent on destroying America from returning to the battlefield. As the threat posed by ISIL grows, Gitmo remains the only option to house these terrorists. Any facility on U.S. soil is not an option. It never was with al-Qaeda terrorists, nor can it be with ISIL terrorists. We are committed to ensuring that President Obama understands this and is prevented from closing the detention center at Guantanamo Bay.” “America faces unknown threats as we confront the spread of ISIS or ISIL, the growing number of terrorist attacks and as we deal with the president’s failed foreign policy decisions,” Senator Roberts stated. “Guantanamo Bay is the safest and most suitable facility to house future detainees. The security and consequences of moving these and future terrorists and combatants to the mainland is unknown and is simply not worth the risk to American communities.” "President Obama’s default foreign policy strategy has been to kill off high-ranking ISIL fighters with drones instead of attempting to detain them to glean valuable intelligence information,” Senator Inhofe stated. “This has weakened our nation’s ability to more quickly make advancements in the Middle East. Guantanamo Bay has served a purpose in the fight against extreme terrorism, and we should be sending ISIL fighters there so that we can garner better knowledge on their tactics and plans that would impact our national security as well as our allies.” “Instead of trying to empty out Guantanamo and transfer dangerous terrorists to domestic soil in order to fulfill a campaign promise, the President should instead be focused on detaining captured ISIS fighters and other terrorists there,” Senator Scott stated. “I visited Guantanamo late last year and met the dedicated Marines who are guarding the terrorists currently held there, and can say unequivocally this is the best place on the planet for us to hold those captured overseas who wish to do us harm. The President’s refusal to do so puts our national security at risk, plain and simple.” “Under no circumstance should the United States allow dangerous terrorists on our homeland, leaving the military prison at Guantanamo Bay as our very best – and frankly, our only – option to detain terrorists,” Senator Vitter stated. “During the course of its existence, Guantanamo has played a major role in securing the safety of American families,” Senator Vitter said. “Closing Guantanamo Bay endangers our security, and President Obama is kidding himself if he thinks otherwise.” Read the full text of the resolution below or download it here. RESOLUTION Expressing the sense of Senate that individuals captured by the United States for supporting the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant should be detained at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. Resolved, That it is the sense of the Senate that— (1) the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) has declared war on the United States; (2) the United States Armed Forces are currently engaged in combat operations against ISIL; (3) in conducting combat operations against ISIL, the United States has captured and detained individuals associated with ISIL and will likely capture and hold additional ISIL detainees; (4) following the horrific terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001, the United States determined that it would detain at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, individuals who had engaged in, aided, or abetted, or conspired to commit, acts of international terrorism, or acts in preparation therefor, that have caused, threaten to cause, or have as their aim to cause, injury to or adverse effects on the United States, its citizens, national security, foreign policy, or economy; (5) members of ISIL captured by the United States during combat operations against ISIL meet such criteria for continued detention at United State Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay; and (6) all individuals captured by the United States during combat operations against ISIL that meet the criteria by their affiliation with ISIL must be detained outside the United States and its territories and should be transferred to United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay. ###
03.09.2016	03.09.16 Gardner Announces FAA Reauthorization With Peña Boulevard Fix Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today announced the Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee will be introducing Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) reauthorization legislation that includes a Gardner provision to address Denver International Airport (DIA) Peña Boulevard funding. “I’m proud to announce the Federal Aviation Administration reauthorization will include a provision that addresses long-term funding for Denver International Airport’s (DIA) Peña Boulevard,” said Gardner. “This legislation, if enacted and signed into law, will allow DIA to fund the vast majority of any construction project for Peña Boulevard, and ensure DIA is able to invest in this critical roadway that connects the 5th busiest airport in the nation to Denver, Interstate-70, and the rest of Colorado.” From 1995-2010, FAA regulations allowed DIA to use airport revenue to finance construction and maintenance projects for Peña Boulevard. In 2010, the FAA determined, that due to increased development along the roadway, DIA should no longer be allowed to pay the full cost of road maintenance and cannot contribute any funds toward potential expansion of the roadway. Gardner sent a letter with Senator Michael Bennet (D-CO) to FAA Administrator Michael Huerta on January 19, 2016 urging the FAA reconsider this decision. The Peña Boulevard provision that will be included in this legislation will require the FAA to allow airports to pay for the costs of maintaining and improving an airport access road on a proportional level, based on the level of airport traffic on the road. This solution allows DIA to pay the costs of expanding the road up to the level of airport traffic that’s on it, which is currently 86 percent, while still requiring the airport and surrounding communities to find that additional 14 percent to cover the full cost of the project. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
03.09.2016	03.09.16 Gardner Taiwan Legislation Unanimously Approved By Senate Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity, today announced the Senate unanimously approved his legislation that will require the United States Department of State to develop a strategy to include Taiwan as an observer in the International Criminal Police Organization (INTERPOL). “Taiwan is our friend and ally and it is important that it has the opportunity to contribute to the global effort to track and prosecute criminals,” said Gardner. “It is essential that the United States support Taiwan, and this bill demonstrates our unwavering commitment to this longstanding and important U.S. ally. I urge the House of Representatives to quickly pass this bill and the President to sign it into law.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
03.08.2016	03.08.16 GOP Senators Introduce Resolution Opposing Transfer of GTMO Detainees Senators introduce resolution opposing closure of the detention facility Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today joined Senators Pat Roberts (R-KS), Tim Scott (R-SC), Jerry Moran (R-KS), and Roy Blunt (R-MO) in introducing a resolution formally rejecting President Obama’s plan to transfer prisoners from the Guantanamo Bay detention facilities to an alternate location in American communities, which is explicitly prohibited by law. “Americans in Colorado and across the country are adamantly opposed to the Obama Administration’s proposal to transfer Guantanamo Bay detainees to their backyards,” said Gardner. “The Administration is considering relocation sites in Colorado that are in close proximity to the heavily populated areas of Pueblo and Colorado Springs, as well as the U.S. Air Force Academy and several military installations. Furthermore, today we learned through a report that in the last six months alone the number of former detainees who have returned to the battlefield to join the fight against the West has doubled. The closure of Guantanamo Bay presents a significant security challenge to the United States and our allies, and this resolution reaffirms my strong opposition to the Obama Administration’s proposal.” The resolution states that the Senate: Rejects the “Plan to Closing Guantanamo Bay Detention Facility” presented by the President on February 23, 2016, to transfer, release, or assist in the transfer or release of Guantanamo Bay detainees to the United States homeland, in contravention of current United States law that explicitly prohibits such transfers Finds that Guantanamo Bay detention facility is the optimal location to house dangerous foreign enemy combatants Asserts that any potential transfer or release of Guantanamo Bay detainees to the U.S. homeland represents a threat to United States national security due to the risk of providing law of war detainees with rights and protections under the United States Constitution, including the potential for release into the United States, and particularly, a threat to the safety and security of local communities in the States of Kansas, Colorado, and South Carolina; and Demands that the President immediately abandon any ill-conceived and illegal plans to transfer Guantanamo Bay detainees to the United States homeland without explicit authorization from the United States Congress. The full text of the resolution is available here. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
03.06.2016	03.06.16 Gardner Statement on the Passing of Nancy Reagan Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement on the passing of former First Lady Nancy Reagan: “Today, the country mourns the loss of an extraordinary woman, Nancy Reagan. Throughout her life, the former First Lady committed herself to countless charitable organizations to improve the lives of others and served as a strong partner to her husband, President Ronald Reagan. Our nation is better off because of her service and devotion to the American people. Jaime and I are deeply saddened by this news and our thoughts are with the entire Reagan family during this difficult time.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
03.04.2016	03.04.16 Gardner Announces Train Horn Rule Public Comment Period Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today announced the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) is reopening the train horn rule for public comment. The public comment period will last for 120 days before the FRA will make a final decision on whether to change the existing rule. The current train horn rule, which went into effect in 2005, has had significant impacts on communities along Colorado’s Front Range. Gardner sent a letter to FRA Administrator Sarah Feinberg on December 11, 2015 expressing disappointment the agency denied a quiet-zone waiver for Fort Collins and asked the FRA to reopen the train horn rule. He followed up with a letter on December 18, 2015 asking the Administrator to meet with Front Range communities that have been negatively impacted by this rule. Last year, when Congress passed a long term authorization of surface transportation programs with the FAST Act, Senator Gardner included an amendment requiring the Government Accountability Office to conduct an independent review of the train horn rule. “I am pleased the Federal Railroad Administration is reopening the train horn rule for public comment, which allows local Colorado communities to play a role in this process,” said Gardner. “The current rule is not effectively serving Front Range communities with rail lines running through their city centers, and I am committed to seeing a final rule that continues to prioritize safety, while also acknowledging the needs of individual communities.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
03.03.2016	03.03.16 Gardner Presses for Funding Increase for Republican River Conservation Project in Colorado Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today sent a letter to Agriculture Secretary Thomas Vilsack requesting an increase in the irrigation rental rate for the Republican River Conservation Reserve Enhancement Program (CREP) in Colorado, which promotes conservation in the region. Increasing the rate has widespread support in the state from the Colorado Department of Agriculture and the Republican River Water Conservation District. Senator Gardner believes the program in Colorado must be on equal footing with a similar project in Nebraska. The letter reads in full: Thank you for taking the time to speak with me on February 4th surrounding the irrigation rental rate for the Republican River Conservation Reserve Enhancement Program (CREP) in Colorado. I write today to formally request that United States Department of Agriculture increase the irrigation rental rate for the Republican River CREP. Despite being located within the same watershed as Nebraska, the Republican River CREP’s rental rate of $115 in Colorado is $100 less than the rental rate just across the border. This inequity is negatively impacting the Republican River Water Conservation District’s ability to utilize the program. I believe it is important that we work together to find a solution to this disparity. Increasing participation in the CREP allows farmers and ranchers throughout Eastern Colorado to conserve both land and water. This cannot be accomplished without a more equitable irrigation rental rate for the Republican River CREP. Thank you for your consideration of this request. I look forward to your response. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
03.03.2016	03.03.16 Gardner Statement on North Korea Rocket Launch Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statement after reports that North Korea fired rockets hours after the United Nations (U.N) Security Council approved new sanctions on the regime. “North Korea’s rocket launch comes at the heels of the U.N. Security Council’s approval of its toughest sanctions against the regime in two decades, and that’s no coincidence,” said Gardner. “The Forgotten Maniac’s latest stunt is further evidence that our friends and allies around the world must join the United States in ratcheting up pressure to address North Korea’s aggression.” Background: In February of 2016, President Barack Obama signed Gardner’s North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act into law. This legislation received rare, overwhelming bipartisan support, passing the Senate 96-0 and the House of Representatives by 408-2. The bill imposes mandatory sanctions on individuals who contribute to North Korea’s nuclear program and proliferation activities, cyberattacks, censorship of its citizens, and the regime’s continued human rights abuses, and is a drastic new direction away from the Administration’s discretionary sanctions. Gardner reacted to reports of U.S. peace talks with North Korea in early January of 2016. In an op-ed in the Wall Street Journal, Gardner urged action against the “Forgotten Maniac.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
03.03.2016	03.03.16 Gardner Supports Congressional Oversight of Guantanamo Bay Naval Lease Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today announced he has joined Senators Richard Burr (R-NC), Kelly Ayotte (R-NH), Tom Cotton (R-AR) and Marco Rubio (R-FL) in supporting the Naval Station Guantanamo Bay Protection Act. Without this legislation, the President could unilaterally modify or terminate the Naval Base at Guantanamo Bay’s lease. This legislation would prevent the President from terminating or modifying the lease without Congressional approval. “This legislation is necessary to ensure the President does not act unilaterally and ignore the will of the American people as he has done many times before,” said Gardner. “Guantanamo Bay is tailor-made for terrorists and the President must not subvert Congress in an attempt to keep a seven-year old campaign promise to close the facility. Furthermore, the naval base is a strategic asset to our military presence in the region and allows our Navy and Coast Guard to freely operate and resupply in the Caribbean. We must not capitulate to the Castro regime and reward a dictator who is responsible for gross human rights abuses. This legislation empowers Congress to stop the President from terminating the Guantanamo Bay lease, allowing for us to keep dangerous terrorists out of the United States and preserve a strategic military port.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
03.02.2016	03.02.16 Gardner Statement on Reforms to VA Choice Program Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statement after the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) announced it eliminated the requirement that Choice providers submit veterans’ medical records in order to receive payment. The announcement follows a letter Gardner sent to Secretary Robert McDonald demanding answers from the VA following a number of complaints about the VA’s failure to reimburse medical providers for their services to veterans. “The VA’s mismanagement of the Choice program has led to denial of care or delayed care for many Colorado veterans, which is exactly what the program was created to address,” said Gardner. “The VA’s effort to expedite payment to Choice providers represents a step in the right direction. There is much more work to be done, however, to repair a broken system that has failed Coloradans across the state. I’ll monitor the VA’s progress to fix its inexcusable implementation of the Choice program, and I’ll continue to demand action from the VA and not settle for anything less than its delivery of the best possible care to veterans throughout the country.” Established by the bipartisan Veterans’ Access to Care through Choice, Accountability, and Transparency Act, the Choice program stipulates veterans who are not able to be seen in a timely manner to seek care at non-VA facilities and those facilities are to be reimbursed by the VA. In February of 2016, reports indicated that many non-VA providers are experiencing significant delays in reimbursement, and many of these providers now refuse to see veterans because of the VA’s poor management of the Choice program. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
03.02.2016	03.02.16 Gardner Reacts to U.N. Sanctions on North Korea Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today reacted to the United Nations (U.N.) Security Council’s unanimous approval of Resolution 2270, new sanctions on North Korea in response to its nuclear test in January of 2016. The resolution imposes financial sanctions on the regime, limits its arms capabilities, targets its proliferation networks, requires new inspection procedures for cargo and ships, and also applies sanctions to identified individuals, entities, and vessels. “I’m pleased the U.N. acted to address the growing threat Pyongyang’s Forgotten Maniac presents to not only the United States, but the world,” said Gardner. “The U.N.’s action follows new sanctions recently enacted by the United States that double down on individuals who contribute to North Korea’s nuclear program, cyber crimes, and human rights abuses. While the U.N.’s tough new sanctions certainly deserve applause, I am disappointed they lack a cyber component given North Korea’s malicious cyber activities, and I urge the U.N. to reconsider it. A coalition of our allies who are committed to sending a strong message to Pyongyang is required to change North Korea’s behavior, and the U.N.’s tough new sanctions reiterate that the world will not tolerate North Korea’s pattern of illicit activities.” In February of 2016, President Barack Obama signed Gardner’s North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act into law. This legislation received rare, overwhelming bipartisan support, passing the Senate 96-0 and the House of Representatives by 408-2. The bill imposes mandatory sanctions on individuals who contribute to North Korea’s nuclear program and proliferation activities, cyberattacks, censorship of its citizens, and the regime’s continued human rights abuses, and is a drastic new direction away from the Administration’s discretionary sanctions. Today, the U.S. Department of Treasury issued an additional round of sanctions, adding 11 individuals including a number of highly ranked North Korean defense officials and five North Korean ministries to its Specially Designated Nations list. “As required by my North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act, the Treasury Department has acted swiftly to ramp up sanctions against the North Korean regime,” Gardner added. “The Administration’s significant acceleration in designating violators is a glaring shift away from its previous strategy of patience, and I’m hopeful that these additional sanctions will lead to the peaceful disarmament of the North Korean regime.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
03.02.2016	03.02.16 Gardner Introduces Bill to Expedite Arkansas Valley Conduit Project Washington, DC: Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today introduced legislation that directs revenue collected from existing Fryingpan-Arkansas project facilities to the Southeastern Colorado Water Conservancy District for Arkansas Valley Conduit construction costs. “The Arkansas Valley Conduit will supply Southeastern Colorado with a safe water supply benefiting families, farmers, and small businesses,” said Gardner. “Without a clear source of funding, however, the project will be stalled. My legislation directs money collected by Fry-Ark projects to assist with the cost of constructing the Arkansas Valley Conduit, providing a clear path forward for the project and bringing us a step closer to establishing a reliable water supply that will serve the region for decades to come. “During a recent Energy and Natural Resources Committee hearing, I questioned Interior Secretary Sally Jewell and Deputy Secretary Michael Connor on their commitment to the Arkansas Valley Conduit project. They pledged continued support for the Conduit and my legislation that helps to finally get construction of the project underway.” Authorized in the 1960s, the Arkansas Valley Conduit project in Southeast Colorado will deliver clean drinking water to local communities across the region upon completion. This bill extends greater flexibility to the Southeastern Colorado Water Conservancy District by allowing the maximum use of miscellaneous revenue collected from the Fryingpan-Arkansas Project to be immediately reinvested into the Arkansas Valley Conduit once construction begins. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
03.02.2016	03.02.16 Gardner Urges EPW Committee to Pass Good Samaritan Legislation Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today spoke at a Senate Environment and Public Works (EPW) Committee hearing in support of the Good Samaritan Cleanup of Orphan Mines Act. If enacted, this legislation allows Good Samaritans, such as the mining industry, state agencies, local governments, nonprofits, and other groups, the opportunity to clean up the environment and improve water quality in and around orphan mines. More information on Gardner’s discussion draft can be found here. Remarks as prepared for delivery: “Thank you Chairman Inhofe, Ranking Member Boxer, and other members of the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works for holding this legislative hearing on economic opportunities from land cleanup programs, and including the discussion draft of the Good Samaritan Cleanup of Orphan Mines Act of 2016. “Senator Bennet and I have been working on this draft the last several months, along with Representative Scott Tipton from Colorado’s Third Congressional District, the location of many abandoned hardrock mines with acid mine drainage. “We have also received significant stakeholder feedback, including from the Colorado Governor and Attorney General’s office. Our goal is to ensure we introduce a bill that works on the ground for our state and constituents, and betters the environment. “Mr. Chairman, I appreciate the opportunity to make a statement about the importance of this legislation and the need to get Good Samaritan legislation passed through this Committee and enacted into law. “Last fall, the Committee held an oversight hearing to examine the Environmental Protection Agency’s spill that took place at the Gold King Mine in southwest Colorado. “A bipartisan group of colleagues and I testified on the impact the spill had on our constituencies. “We are still feeling the spill’s effects including lost property, lost economic opportunity, lost business opportunity, and are monitoring EPA’s reimbursement process. “Today, I come before the Committee to advocate the need to move forward with legislation that would allow Good Samaritans – like the mining industry, state agencies, local governments, nonprofits, and other groups – the ability to clean up the environment and improve water quality conditions in and around abandoned mines. “The Government Accountability Office estimates that more than 160,000 abandoned hardrock mines exist across the United States and at least 33,000 of them pose environmental or safety concerns. “One of the immediate actions we can do in Congress to address abandoned mines is to pass Good Samaritan legislation. It’s a concept that has been around for decades with nearly every stakeholder over time advocating and remaining true to their opinions on the concept. “I respect all stakeholder positions, but it’s time to take a small step towards facilitating cleanup, to prove that this idea works, and when the legislation sunsets in 10 years – I fully support a comprehensive review of what concepts worked and what could be done better regarding Good Samaritan cleanup. “If we can move this forward now, we will have the knowledge and facts necessary to make a Good Samaritan program even stronger in the future. “The Gold King Mine spill, as terrible as it was, helped shine a light on the need for remediation of abandoned hardrock mines. “As the situation currently stands regarding cleanup of abandoned mines, there are not enough federal or state resources to properly remediate these mines. “During the Gold King Mine remediation, the federal government also demonstrated a lack of expertise in the remediation process. “Further, while EPA has guidance on the remediation of mines by Good Samaritans, this guidance has done little to incentivize Good Samaritans to enter these sites and begin cleanup. “There are willing and able Good Samaritans that wish to address safety concerns and improve water quality at abandoned mines, as you will hear from Trout Unlimited, but the fear of incurring liability for meeting all federal standards during cleanup is too great and these sites continue polluting the environment and our waters. “There has been broad bipartisan support for passing Good Samaritan legislation in the past. “Mr. Chairman, under your leadership, the Committee in 2006 reported out a bipartisan bill from Colorado Senators Ken Salazar and Wayne Allard. “Ten years later, my Democratic colleague Senator Bennet and I are advocating for the Good Samaritan concept. “The time has come for Congress to move forward with this legislation, to get this done for Colorado, and any other state or Tribe that wishes to participate in a Good Samaritan program. “We must improve the environmental and safety issues related to these abandoned mines. “The draft legislation before the Committee is designed to allow Good Samaritans the opportunity to apply for a permit under a State or Indian tribe program or EPA’s program to assist in the environmental cleanup of abandoned mines. “The State or Indian Tribe or EPA acts as the permitting agency that approves or denies a Good Samaritan’s permit, and monitors the cleanup for the duration of the permit. “The approved permit allows the Good Samaritan to improve the environment and water quality while receiving limited liability relief from only those provisions necessary under the Clean Water Act and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980. “A criticism of past bills was that liability relief was too broad, so we have tailored this bill to only include those provisions that we believe necessary to facilitate cleanup. “This draft holds Good Samaritans liable if they fail to comply with the terms of the Act, but provides an exception if the failure results in only minor impacts. “The draft includes that any action done by the Good Samaritan must improve the environment and water quality standards to the maximum extent practicable under the circumstances. “Of final note, the draft sunsets in ten years, which provides Congress the opportunity to reevaluate if the Act has facilitated the cleanup of abandoned mines, the main goal of the bill – which is a cleaner environment and improved water quality conditions. “Mr. Chairman, I have a letter from Colorado Governor John Hickenlooper expressing support for the bipartisan effort we have undertaken in the Colorado Delegation. I respectfully request that the letter be included as part of my testimony for today’s hearing. “I also request that Colorado Senate Joint Memorial 16 be included as part of my testimony. The Memorial urges United States Congress to pass Good Samaritan legislation. “Thank you again for the opportunity to testify and I look forward to hearing the issues raised, and how we can improve the draft legislation prior to bill introduction.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
03.01.2016	03.01.16 Gardner, Moran, Daines Visit Guantanamo Bay, Cuba Washington, DC: On Monday, Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO), Jerry Moran (R-KS), and Steve Daines (R-MT) visited the detention facility at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. “My visit to Guantanamo Bay reaffirmed what Coloradans and Americans across the country already know: the detainees belong in Guantanamo Bay, a facility tailor-made for terrorists,” Sen. Gardner said. “In addition to the illegality of transferring Guantanamo Bay detainees to U.S. soil through executive order, the President should recognize that moving dangerous terrorists to our backyard at a time when our country is facing emerging security challenges is both irresponsible and dangerous. I’ll continue to work to ensure that Guantanamo Bay detainees remain where they belong.” “The visit to Guantanamo Bay was an important opportunity to speak with our military leaders and gain a better understanding of detention facility operations – their mission is difficult as they safeguard our nation from those who wish to do us harm,” Sen. Moran said. “The impressive men and women of the Joint Task Force Guantanamo are fully committed to serving and protecting our country. Unfortunately, the president is spending more energy fulfilling a campaign promise than focusing on the serious national security threats we face across the globe. I will continue to oppose the administration’s plan to move detainees to the United States.” “Visiting Guantanamo Bay was a humble reminder of the services our military provides overseas to get these terrorists off the battlefield and ensure we don’t have to bring them to Americans’ backyards,” Sen. Daines said. “The fact remains clear, President Obama signed multiple pieces of legislation into law that explicitly prohibits the transfer of enemy combatants from Guantanamo Bay to our shores. I’m exceedingly proud of our men and women serving at Guantanamo Bay and will continue working tirelessly to prohibit the transfer of these detainees to America.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
02.29.2016	02.29.16 Gardner Joins Bipartisan Coalition to Create National Commission on Digital Security Washington – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today joined a bipartisan, bicameral coalition in introducing legislation to establish an independent National Commission on Security and Technology Challenges. As stated by Sen. Mark R. Warner (D-VA), the purpose of the digital security Commission is to bring together all stakeholders, including tech leaders, law enforcement, the intelligence community, privacy and civil liberties advocates, computer science researchers, and global commerce leaders, who will be charged with developing recommendations for maintaining privacy and digital security while also finding ways to keep criminals and terrorists from exploiting these technologies to escape justice. The legislation is co-sponsored in the Senate by Brian Schatz (D-HI), Susan Collins (R-ME), Michael Bennet (D-CO), Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV), Angus King (I-ME), and Dean Heller (R-NV). In addition to House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX), House co-sponsors are Reps. Jim Langevin (R-RI), Patrick Meehan (R-PA), Suzan Delbene (D-WA), Mike Bishop (R-MI), Ted Lieu (D-CA), Will Hurd (R-TX), Kathleen Rice (D-NY), Blake Farenthold (R-TX), Eric Swalwell (D-CA), Dan Donovan (R-NY), Jerry McNerney (D-CA), Barbara Comstock (R-VA), Mimi Walters (R-CA), Ryan Costello (R-PA), and Dave Reichert (R-WA). Under the proposal, a 16-member Commission, which will include a broad range of individuals with specific expertise, will be appointed in equal numbers by the bipartisan leadership of the House and Senate. The Commission also will include a nonvoting representative selected by the Administration. The Commission will be charged with issuing an interim report within six months, and will be required to submit majority recommendations for Congress to consider within 12 months of the law’s enactment. “Advances in technology drive the world economy and improve privacy for consumers, but those advances do not come without challenges. As the debate continues on how to balance the preservation of our civil liberties with the protection of our citizens, a strong consensus remains: there is no easy answer to solve this problem,” said Sen. Gardner. “That’s why the establishment of the Digital Security Commission is essential as it unites our country’s brightest experts from the government and private sector who are in the best position to develop and present recommendations to Congress to tackle the issue of digital security.” “As someone who spent nearly two decades in the tech industry, I recognize that there are no easy or simple solutions to the challenges posed by the growing use of secure technologies. The same tools that allow terrorists and criminals to evade detection by American intelligence and law enforcement are also used each day by Americans who rely upon secure technologies to safely shop online, communicate with friends and family, and run their businesses,” said Sen. Warner. “I believe that we can strike an appropriate balance that protects Americans' privacy, American security, and American competitiveness, but we won't achieve that while all sides continue to talk past each other. What we don’t want is a solution that could simply drive terrorists to use software and hardware based overseas, pushing their communications even farther out of reach for American law enforcement and intelligence. Chairman McCaul has been a solid partner in this initiative, and I appreciate the support for this proposal from colleagues in both parties and on both sides of Capitol Hill.” “The challenge of protecting national security and digital security simultaneously, is complex. The ongoing Apple vs. FBI dispute is only a symptom of a much larger problem. But we are almost certain to see this scenario repeated unless the larger issue is addressed. Law enforcement clearly needs the ability to gain lawful access to information that can stop future attacks,” said Chairman McCaul. “I am proud to partner with Senator Warner on this initiative and I urge our colleagues in both chambers to quickly establish this Commission so we may effectively address this challenge for law enforcement now and in the future.” Digital security and communications technology and national security are inextricably linked. Digital security and communications technology, including encryption, protects critical infrastructure, financial systems, health records, online security, commercial transactions, government information, and personal privacy.? But the same tools that Americans rely on to safely shop online, protect their health records, exchange emails and texts away from prying eyes, and run their businesses can be exploited by terrorists and criminals to hide their activities from U.S. intelligence and law enforcement. Because extremists are “going dark,” law enforcement officials warn that we are “going blind” in our efforts to track them. It is clear that the U.S. faces a difficult question of how to take advantage of privacy and security benefits of digital security and communications technology while minimizing risks posed by its abuse – yet no simple path forward exists despite years of dialogue between the tech sector, law enforcement, and national security professionals. The Commission will bring together leaders from tech companies, the privacy community, law enforcement, and others to examine the intersection of digital technology and national security and determine the implications for national security, public safety, data security, privacy, innovation, and American competitiveness in the global marketplace.? The panel will engage with all the key stakeholders to get to the heart of these challenges and publish findings and recommendations in a publicly available report for all to consider. Composition of the Commission Two commissioners will be selected from each of the following fields: Cryptography Global commerce and economics Federal law enforcement State and local law enforcement Consumer-facing technology sector Enterprise technology sector Intelligence community Privacy and civil liberties community The Speaker of the House and Senate Majority Leader will appoint eight commissioners, one from each field, including a Chairman. The House Minority Leader and the Senate Minority Leader will appoint eight commissioners, one from each field, including one Vice Chairman. In addition, the President may appoint one ex officio individual to serve on the Commission in a nonvoting capacity. Reporting In a report to Congress, the Commission will provide, at a minimum, assessments of: The issue of multiple security interests (public safety, privacy, national security, and communications and data protection) both now and in ten years. The economic and commercial value of cryptography and digital security and communications technology. The benefits of cryptography and digital security and communications technology to national security and crime prevention. The role of cryptography and digital security and communications technology in protecting the privacy and civil liberties of Americans. The effects the use of cryptography and other digital security and communications technology has on law enforcement and counterterrorism. The costs of weakening cryptography and digital security and communications technology standards. International laws, standards, and practices for legal access to communications and data protected by cryptography and digital security and communications technology. The Commission’s report will also include recommendations for policy and practice, and may include recommendations for legislation, regarding: Methods to take advantage of the benefits of digital security and communications technology while mitigating the risk of abuse by bad actors. The tools, training, and resources that could be utilized by law enforcement and national security agencies to adapt to the new digital landscape. Cooperation between the government and private sector to work together to impede terrorists’ use of digital security and communications technology to mobilize, facilitate, and carry out attacks. Any revisions to current law regarding wiretaps and warrants for digital data, while preserving privacy and market competitiveness. Proposed changes to procedures for obtaining warrants to increase efficiency and cost effectiveness for the government, tech companies, and service providers. Steps the U.S. can take to lead the development of international standards for digital evidence for criminal investigations, including reforming the mutual legal assistance treaty (MLAT) process. The Commission will issue an interim report within 6 months, and a final report within 12 months. For the full bill text, click here. For a section-by-section summary, click here. # # #
02.24.2016	02.24.16 Gardner on Morning Joe: No GTMO in U.S. Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) appeared on MSNBC’s Morning Joe today to discuss his opposition to President Obama’s proposal to transfer terrorists from Guantanamo Bay to the United States. Colorado has been reported as a possible relocation site and Gardner has been a vocal critic of this plan. Click here to view the video. Background: In February of 2016, Director of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Lt. General William Mayville Jr. wrote in a letter to Congress that “Current law prohibits the use of funds to 'transfer, release or assist in the transfer or release' of detainees of Guantanamo Bay to or within the United States, and prohibits the construction, modification or acquisition of any facility within the United States to house any Guantanamo detainee. The Joint Staff will not take any action contrary to those restrictions." In January of 2016, Department of Defense Secretary Ash Carter stated that the transfer of Guantanamo detainees is “against the law.” In a statement before the House Judiciary Committee, U.S. Attorney General Loretta Lynch stated that existing law does not permit the Obama Administration to transfer Guantanamo Bay detainees to the United States. In November of 2015, Gardner along with Senators Tim Scott (R-SC) and Pat Robert (R-KS) held a press conference in response to the White House’s announcement that the President will not rule out executive action to close Guantanamo Bay. The potential transfer was met with opposition locally in Colorado. In November of 2015, more than 40 sheriffs sent the President a letter expressing “strong opposition” to the potential transfer. In October of 2015, Gardner sent a letter to President Obama asking for clarification on the legal authority of the Administration’s actions in response to reports of the Administration’s plan to conduct relocation site visits in Colorado. Gardner has not received a response to the letter to date. In September of 2015, Gardner urged the President to abandon his potential plan to bring Guantanamo detainees to the United States after learning about it through media reports. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
02.23.2016	02.23.16 Senate Approves Gardner, Bennet Resolution Congratulating the Denver Broncos WASHINGTON – The Senate approved a resolution introduced by Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Michael Bennet (D-CO) to congratulate the Denver Broncos on winning Super Bowl 50. The Denver Broncos claimed their third Super Bowl title on February 7, 2016 when they beat the Carolina Panthers 24-10 at Levi’s Stadium in Santa Clara, California. “Congratulations to Broncos owner Pat Bowlen, General Manager John Elway, Head Coach Gary Kubiak, and the entire Broncos organization on capping off an incredible season with a Super Bowl win,” said Gardner. “The Denver Broncos made the city of Denver and all of Colorado proud, and I am thrilled the Broncos have brought back the Lombardi Trophy to Colorado. The Orange Crush era is back!” “The Denver Broncos put on a defensive show in Super Bowl 50 that fans in Colorado and across the country will never forget,” Bennet said. “Von Miller’s MVP performance leading the defense and Peyton Manning’s steady offense helped bring home the Broncos third Lombardi Trophy. Broncos Country will revel in championship glory for quite a while…or until it’s time to get to work to defend our title.” ###
02.23.2016	02.23.16 Gardner Statement on Obama Administration Proposal to Transfer GTMO Detainees to U.S. WASHINGTON - Sen. Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statement after the Pentagon released its proposed plan to close Guantanamo Bay and transfer detainees to the United States homeland: “Pursuant to law he signed just three months ago, the President is prohibited from transferring or assisting in the transfer of Guantanamo Bay detainees to the United States homeland, as confirmed by Secretary of Defense Ash Carter and Attorney General Loretta Lynch. Regardless of today’s futile proposal, transferring detainees to the U.S. is illegal, and it’s rejected by Coloradans, top Colorado law enforcement officials, and Americans across the country,” said Gardner. “Today’s proposal only signals that the President may be willing to once again circumvent Congress and ignore the very law he approved in order to fulfill his campaign promises. This represents a grave threat to Colorado and our national security and I will take any and all action as a United States Senator to ensure Guantanamo Bay detainees remain in Cuba and out of Colorado.” Background: In February of 2016, Director of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Lt. General William Mayville Jr. wrote in a letter to Congress that “Current law prohibits the use of funds to 'transfer, release or assist in the transfer or release' of detainees of Guantanamo Bay to or within the United States, and prohibits the construction, modification or acquisition of any facility within the United States to house any Guantanamo detainee. The Joint Staff will not take any action contrary to those restrictions." In January of 2016, Department of Defense Secretary Ash Carter stated that the transfer of Guantanamo detainees is “against the law.” In a statement before the House Judiciary Committee, U.S. Attorney General Loretta Lynch stated that existing law does not permit the Obama Administration to transfer Guantanamo Bay detainees to the United States. In November of 2015, Gardner along with Senators Tim Scott (R-SC) and Pat Robert (R-KS) held a press conference in response to the White House’s announcement that the President will not rule out executive action to close Guantanamo Bay. The potential transfer was met with opposition locally in Colorado. In November of 2015, more than 40 sheriffs sent the President a letter expressing “strong opposition” to the potential transfer. In October of 2015, Gardner sent a letter to President Obama asking for clarification on the legal authority of the Administration’s actions in response to reports of the Administration’s plan to conduct relocation site visits in Colorado. Gardner has not received a response to the letter to date. In September of 2015, Gardner urged the President to abandon his potential plan to bring Guantanamo detainees to the United States after learning about it through media reports. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
02.21.2016	02.21.16 Gardner Reacts to North Korea Peace Talks WASHINGTON - Sen. Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statement after a news report stated the Obama Administration engaged in secret talks with North Korea without preconditions. According to the Wall Street Journal, the Obama Administration agreed to talks without requiring North Korea to first curb its nuclear program, representing a significant pivot from previous U.S. policy. North Korea reportedly refused the U.S. concession, and the talks ceased after North Korea’s latest nuclear test in early January of 2016. “It is extremely disappointing, yet unsurprising, that the Obama Administration would talk with North Korea without tough preconditions, including ending its nuclear and ballistic missile programs, human rights abuses, or cyber attacks. It was dangerously naïve for the Obama Administration to offer concessions to Pyongyang’s Forgotten Maniac, Kim Jong-un, especially when we've seen the Iranian nuclear deal fail to change the behavior of that regime,” said Gardner. “Like Iran, North Korea doesn’t play by the rules, and it’s far past time that the United States meets its aggression with strength. My North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act changes U.S. policy to offer real solutions to counter North Korea’s belligerence. I’m proud it has been signed into law and it represents a significant shift away from the Obama Administration’s failed policy that has led to three nuclear tests since President Obama assumed office.” President Barack Obama signed Gardner’s North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act into law. This legislation received rare, overwhelming bipartisan support, passing the Senate 96-0 and the House of Representatives by 408-2. The bill imposes mandatory sanctions on individuals who contribute to North Korea’s nuclear program and proliferation activities, malicious cyberattacks, censorship of its citizens, and the regime’s continued human rights abuses. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
02.19.2016	02.19.16 Gardner Continues to Push for Accountability at the VA Washington, DC: Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the below statement following his visit with Veterans Affairs (VA) Eastern Colorado Health Care System Director Sallie Houser-Hanfelder on February 18, 2016. Following the VA’s February 4, 2016 Inspector General (IG) report, Gardner sent a letter on February 5, 2016 to VA Secretary Robert McDonald blasting the VA’s widespread mismanagement and poor implementation of the Veterans Choice program. “The Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) February 4, 2016 Inspector General (IG) report revealed our veterans are not receiving the care they deserve,” said Gardner. “After meeting with VA Eastern Colorado Health Care System Director Sallie Houser-Hanfelder, I am encouraged the VA in Colorado Springs has made some progress by hiring additional staff, but more needs to be done. We must hold the VA accountable for their mistakes and ensure the same problems are not repeated. Our veterans deserve the best possible care and I will not settle for anything less.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
02.19.2016	02.19.16 Gardner Applauds FCC Rule Benefiting Southwest Colorado Washington, DC: Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the below statement regarding the Federal Communications Commission’s (FCC) new rule allowing counties to petition for in-state TV signals. Last year, Gardner sent a letter urging the Commission to issue such a rule. In addition, last Congress, Gardner fought with Congressman Scott Tipton (R-CO) to insert language in the Satellite Television Extension and Localism Act Reauthorization (STELAR) that advanced the process of getting Colorado TV to La Plata and Montezuma counties. "I am pleased to see that FCC's new rule allowing counties to petition for in-state TV signals is now final. For years, Colorado's Southwest Corner of the state has had to rely on New Mexico television for their news, weather, sports, and more, leaving Broncos fans in the dark and Durango residents getting breaking updates from Albuquerque instead of Denver,” said Gardner. “FCC's new rule, which I urged them to adopt, is a step in the right direction and I will continue to work to ensure we can bring Colorado TV to all corners of our state." ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
02.18.2016	02.18.16 President Obama Signs Gardner’s North Korea Sanctions Bill Into Law Washington, DC: President Barack Obama today signed Senator Cory Gardner’s (R-CO) North Korea Sanctions Policy and Enhancement Act into law. This legislation received rare, overwhelming bipartisan support, passing the Senate 96-0 and the House of Representatives by 408-2. The North Korea Sanctions Policy and Enhancement Act imposes mandatory sanctions on individuals who contribute to North Korea’s nuclear program and proliferation activities, malicious cyberattacks, censorship of its citizens, and the regime’s continued human rights abuses. This legislation is the first passed by Congress to impose mandatory sanctions on cybercriminals, a drastic new direction away from the current discretionary sanctions. “The President’s signing of my North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act represents a major shift in U.S. policy toward North Korea,” said Gardner. “It is the Obama Administration’s recognition that their strategic patience policy has failed and we need a new direction to stop North Korea's increasing belligerence. My bill provides that new policy of strength, and I’m proud that Congress put politics aside and came together to approve mandatory sanctions designed to stop the Forgotten Maniac in Pyongyang. Today, we’ve given our allies a reason to trust us, and our enemies a reason to fear us.” Background: In April, Gardner urged the Obama Administration to act following reports that the regime is expanding its nuclear stockpile. In May, Gardner introduced a resolution urging new sanctions on North Korea in reaction to the regime’s long history of human rights abuses, military threats, and international law violations. In August, Gardner met with South Korean President Park Geun-hye and discussed the threat the regime poses to South Korea and the region. In October, Gardner chaired a Foreign Relations Committee hearing on North Korea and the Obama Administration’s failed policies, and reacted to the Obama Administration’s announcement of limited new sanctions, calling them “not nearly enough.” Later that month, Gardner along with Senators Rubio and Risch introduced the North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act. Senators Marco Rubio (R-FL), Jim Risch (R-ID), David Perdue (R-GA), Johnny Isakson (R-GA), Kelly Ayotte (R-NH), Roy Blunt (R-MO), Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV), John Cornyn (R-TX), Tom Cotton (R-AR), Steve Daines (R-MT), Orrin Hatch (R-UT), Mark Kirk (R-IL), Pat Roberts (R-KS), Mike Rounds (R-SD), Dan Sullivan (R-AK), Ted Cruz (R-TX), Jim Inhofe (R-OK), and Senator Lindsey Graham (R-SC) are cosponsors of the North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act. In an op-ed in the Wall Street Journal, Gardner discussed the legislation he introduced and urged action against the “Forgotten Maniac.” After the regime’s nuclear test in early January, Gardner responded by calling for immediate action and was disappointed the President failed to mention North Korea or its most recent test during his final State of the Union address. Gardner reacted to North Korea’s satellite launch on February 6, 2016 by calling for mandatory sanctions. On February 10, 2016, the Senate approved the North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act and on February 12, 2016, the House of Representatives approved the Senate version of the bill. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
02.13.2016	02.13.16 Gardner Statement on Death of Justice Scalia Washington, DC – U.S. Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statement after news reports that Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia passed away: “Our hearts are broken over the loss of Justice Scalia. A lifetime dedicated to the rule of law and the love of country, he was a guardian of the Constitution and the separation of powers established by our Founding Fathers. Jaime and I extend our condolences to his wife, Maureen, and join the country in mourning the loss of a great American.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
02.12.2016	02.12.16 House Approves Gardner’s North Korea Sanctions Bill Bill Now Heads to President’s Desk Washington, DC: The House of Representatives today approved Senator Cory Gardner’s (R-CO) North Korea Sanctions Policy and Enhancement Act after it passed the Senate on Wednesday with overwhelming bipartisan support. The legislation would impose mandatory sanctions on individuals who contribute to North Korea’s nuclear program and proliferation activities, malicious cyberattacks, censorship of its citizens, and the regime’s continued human rights abuses. This legislation, if enacted and signed into law, would be the first passed by Congress to impose mandatory sanctions on cybercriminals, representing a drastic new direction away from the current discretionary sanctions. “I’m pleased the House acted to replace the Obama Administration’s failed policy of ‘strategic patience’ toward North Korea with mandatory sanctions designed to stop the Forgotten Maniac in Pyongyang. North Korea’s behavior is increasingly belligerent, and recent headlines and military experts confirm its nuclear, ballistic missile, and cyber capabilities are growing. At the same time, the ruthless regime continues to imprison and torture more than 200,000 of its own men, women, and children,” said Gardner. “The North Korea Sanctions Policy and Enhancement Act vigorously pursues sanctions against individuals who contribute to the regime’s proliferation activities, cyberattacks, censorship, and human rights abuses. I’m proud that Congress came together to address the Forgotten Maniac, and I look forward to the President signing this overwhelmingly bipartisan legislation into law.” Background: In April, Gardner urged the Obama Administration to act following reports that the regime is expanding its nuclear stockpile. In May, Gardner introduced a resolution urging new sanctions on North Korea in reaction to the regime’s long history of human rights abuses, military threats, and international law violations. In August, Gardner met with South Korean President Park Geun-hye and discussed the threat the regime poses to South Korea and the region. In October, Gardner chaired a Foreign Relations Committee hearing on North Korea and the Obama Administration’s failed policies, and reacted to the Obama Administration’s announcement of limited new sanctions, calling them “not nearly enough.” Later that month, Gardner along with Senators Rubio and Risch introduced the North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act. Senators Marco Rubio (R-FL), Jim Risch (R-ID), David Perdue (R-GA), Johnny Isakson (R-GA), Kelly Ayotte (R-NH), Roy Blunt (R-MO), Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV), John Cornyn (R-TX), Tom Cotton (R-AR), Steve Daines (R-MT), Orrin Hatch (R-UT), Mark Kirk (R-IL), Pat Roberts (R-KS), Mike Rounds (R-SD), Dan Sullivan (R-AK), Ted Cruz (R-TX), Jim Inhofe (R-OK), and Senator Lindsey Graham (R-SC) are cosponsors of the North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act. In an op-ed in the Wall Street Journal, Gardner discussed the legislation he introduced and urged action against the “Forgotten Maniac.” After the regime’s nuclear test in early January, Gardner responded by calling for immediate action and was disappointed the President failed to mention North Korea or its most recent test during his final State of the Union address. Gardner reacted to North Korea’s satellite launch on February 6, 2016 by calling for mandatory sanctions. On February 11, 2016, the Senate approved the North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
02.10.2016	02.10.16 Senate Unanimously Approves Gardner’s North Korea Sanctions Bill Washington, DC: The U.S. Senate today unanimously approved Senator Cory Gardner’s (R-CO) North Korea Sanctions Policy and Enhancement Act. The legislation would impose mandatory sanctions on individuals who contribute to North Korea’s nuclear program and proliferation activities, malicious cyberattacks, censorship of its citizens, and the regime’s continued human rights abuses. This legislation, if enacted and signed into law, would be the first passed by Congress to impose mandatory sanctions on cybercriminals, representing a drastic new direction away from the current discretionary sanctions. “The Obama Administration’s policy of ‘strategic patience’ toward North Korea has been a strategic failure and has not stopped the Forgotten Maniac in Pyongyang. Following North Korea’s fourth nuclear test last month, the third such test during the Obama Administration, and an illicit satellite launch several days ago, it is evident the regime’s nuclear and ballistic missile capabilities are growing, not slowing. At the same time, North Korea has bolstered its cyberattacks and continues to imprison and horrifically torture more than 200,000 of its own men, women, and children,” said Gardner, Chairman of the Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. “This legislation is the first step toward building a new policy that will put pressure on Pyongyang to peacefully disarm and cease its violations of international norms. I was proud my colleagues came together to approve the North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act, legislation that mandates the United States vigorously pursue sanctions against individuals who contribute to the regime’s proliferation activities, cyberattacks, censorship, and human rights abuses. It’s far past time to counter the Forgotten Maniac.” “For too many years, the standard response of Republican and Democratic administrations alike -- whenever North Korea stages a provocation -- has been to dismiss the seriousness of the threat,” said Sen. Bob Menendez, senior member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. “Four nuclear tests, three Kims, two violations of United Nations Security Council Resolutions and one attempt by North Korea to transfer nuclear technology to Syria later -- it is clearly time for the United States to start taking the North Korea challenge seriously. With today’s bi-partisan vote, we have taken a major step forward in creating a new policy framework that combines effective sanctions and effective military countermeasures that can stop North Korea’s nuclear ambitions and bring some sanity back to the political calculus. This new policy framework leaves no doubt about our determination to neutralize any threat North Korea may present – with robust, realistic diplomacy toward the clear goal of a denuclearized Korean Peninsula.” Background: In April, Gardner urged the Obama Administration to act following reports that the regime is expanding its nuclear stockpile. In May, Gardner introduced a resolution urging new sanctions on North Korea in reaction to the regime’s long history of human rights abuses, military threats, and international law violations. In August, Gardner met with South Korean President Park Geun-hye and discussed the threat the regime poses to South Korea and the region. In October, Gardner chaired a Foreign Relations Committee hearing on North Korea and the Obama Administration’s failed policies, and reacted to the Obama Administration’s announcement of limited new sanctions, calling them “not nearly enough.” Later that month, Gardner along with Senators Rubio and Risch introduced the North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act. Senators Marco Rubio (R-FL), Jim Risch (R-ID), David Perdue (R-GA), Johnny Isakson (R-GA), Kelly Ayotte (R-NH), Roy Blunt (R-MO), Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV), John Cornyn (R-TX), Tom Cotton (R-AR), Steve Daines (R-MT), Orrin Hatch (R-UT), Mark Kirk (R-IL), Pat Roberts (R-KS), Mike Rounds (R-SD), Dan Sullivan (R-AK), Ted Cruz (R-TX), Jim Inhofe (R-OK), and Senator Lindsey Graham (R-SC) are cosponsors of the North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act. In an op-ed in the Wall Street Journal, Gardner discussed the legislation he introduced and urged action against the “Forgotten Maniac.” After the regime’s nuclear test in early January, Gardner responded by calling for immediate action and was disappointed the President failed to mention North Korea or its most recent test during his final State of the Union address. On January 12, 2016, the House of Representatives passed legislation that imposes sanctions on North Korea. Gardner reacted to North Korea’s satellite launch on February 6, 2016 by calling for mandatory sanctions. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
02.10.2016	02.10.16 Gardner, Bennet Announce Colorado Capital Conference Open House Events WASHINGTON – Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Michael Bennet (D-CO) announced Gardner’s Colorado offices will host Open House events for Coloradans to learn more about the Colorado Capital Conference in Washington. Senators Gardner and Bennet host the Colorado Capital Conference, in partnership with Colorado Mesa University and University of Colorado, to provide an opportunity for Coloradans to travel to Washington, D.C. and hear from elected officials, journalists, and academics to gain a better understanding of how our government operates. All Coloradans are encouraged to apply here to attend the conference, which is held June 8-10, 2016. Applications are due no later than March 25, 2016. To learn more about the conference, attend an Open House event on February 11, 2016 where representatives from Senators Gardner and Bennet’s offices will be available to answer questions. “The Colorado Capital Conference is a wonderful opportunity for people from all over Colorado to travel to Washington, D.C. and meet with our nation’s top leaders, which have included Supreme Court Justices, heads of executive agencies, and Members of Senate leadership.” said Gardner. “The Capital Conference is a Colorado tradition, and one I look forward to each year. Washington works best when Coloradans are involved in the policymaking process and this annual conference provides that opportunity.” “We encourage Coloradans to visit with our staffs and learn more about the Capital Conference,” Bennet said. “It’s an excellent opportunity for us to meet with the people we represent and discuss what’s most important to them. It also allows Coloradans from around the state to connect with one another and share their ideas about how to keep Colorado the best state in the country to live and work.” Open House Locations: Denver4:00-6:00pm1125 17th Street, Suite 800Denver, CO 80202Phone: 303-391-5777Greeley4:00-6:00pm801 8th St., Ste. 140A Greeley, CO 80631 P: (970) 352-5546Pueblo4:00-6:00pm503 N. Main St., Ste. 426 Pueblo, CO 81003 P: (719) 543-1324 Colorado Springs4:00-6:00pm102 S. Tejon St., Suite 930 Colorado Springs, CO 80903 P: (719) 632-6706Fort Collins4:00-6:00pm 2001 S. Shields Street, Building H Fort Collins, CO 80526 Phone: 970-484-3502 Grand Junction 4:00-5:00pm400 Rood Ave., Federal Bldg., Ste. 220 Grand Junction, CO 81501 P: (970) 245-9553 ###
02.09.2016	02.09.16 Gardner, Bennet, Polis Introduce Bolts Ditch Legislation WASHINGTON – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today announced that he has joined with Senator Michael Bennet (D-CO) in introducing legislation to address Bolts Ditch in the town of Minturn, Colorado. Representative Jared Polis (CO-02) introduced companion legislation in the House of Representatives. When Holy Cross Wilderness Area was designated by Congress in 1980, Bolts Ditch was inadvertently left off of the list of existing water facilities. This legislation would authorize special use of the Bolts Ditch headgate and the segment of the Bolts Ditch within the Holy Cross Wilderness Area, allowing Minturn to use its existing water right to fill Bolts Lake. "This legislation finally provides a solution to a 30-year-old problem,” said Gardner. “Our municipalities must have the ability to utilize their existing water rights, and it is important Minturn has access to fill Bolts Lake.” “This bill represents a practical solution that will allow the town to use and maintain Bolt’s Ditch without compromising the Holy Cross Wilderness Area,” Bennet said. “Our office has been working with Minturn on this issue for several years, and we look forward to collaborating with the delegation and local leaders to move this bill through Congress and finally resolve this problem.” Representative Polis said, “Residents of Minturn, as well as those across the Central Mountains, have long relied on water infrastructure like Bolt’s Ditch to access clean and affordable drinking water. This bill will ensure that the Town of Minturn is able to utilize an important resource, and do so without compromising the sanctity of the surrounding wilderness areas. I’m proud of this legislation’s bipartisan approach, and I thank Senator Gardner, Senator Bennet, Representative Lamborn, Representative Tipton, Eagle County and the Town of Minturn for partnering with me in this important effort.” ###
01.16.2016	01.16.16 Gardner Statement on Iran Deal Implementation Washington – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the following statement marking the implementation of the Iran Nuclear Deal: “In just the few short months between when this deal was agreed to and today’s implementation, the Iranian regime has conducted illegal ballistic missile tests, violated U.N. travel restrictions by sending known terrorists abroad, and detained American sailors at gunpoint. And yet today, the Obama Administration is poised to begin a transfer of around a hundred billion dollars into Iranian coffers. “The Administration is embarking on a tragic mistake, a mistake whose ramifications will be felt throughout the region and the world for years to come. The consequences of this deal will be felt in Yemen, where Iranian boats ferry weapons to Houthi rebels. The consequences will be felt in Syria, where Bashar al-Assad’s barrel bombs, paid for in part by Iran, drop on civilian homes. And the consequences will be felt in Israel, where rockets funded by Iran and fired by Hamas fly over the border and towards cities and towns. With billions more in available resources, Iran could drastically expand these activities. “It is my hope that a future White House works to reverse this course and put Iran under the pressure necessary to truly change their behavior. For now, the message to bad actors around the world is clear: act aggressively enough, for long enough, and your behavior will be rewarded. That is not what the United States of America should stand for.” Senator Gardner has been a vocal opponent of the President’s deal with Iran. He warned before the deal was struck about the dangers of a nuclear Iran, and denounced the deal when it was announced as a “bad deal with the murderous Iranian regime”. After reports of Iranian violations of U.N. sanctions, Gardner sent a letter to President Obama asking for a response to those actions. On the floor of the Senate, Gardner spoke out about the troubling aspects of the deal and urged his colleagues to reject it. In October, Gardner asked Secretary of State John Kerry whether the Administration believed Iranian Ballistic Missile Launches violated a U.N. ban. In December, Gardner urged action against Iran for their repeated violations of ballistic missile test bans. At a Foreign Relations Committee hearing, Senator Gardner’s questioning revealed the Administration’s highly permissive attitude towards Iran’s bad behavior. ###
02.09.2016	02.09.16 Senate to Vote on Gardner’s North Korea Sanctions Legislation Tomorrow WASHINGTON – The Senate is scheduled to vote on Senator Cory Gardner’s (R-CO) North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act on Wednesday, February 10th, 2016. This legislation sanctions individuals who contribute to North Korea’s nuclear program and proliferation activities, imposes mandatory sanctions on cybercriminals, as well as officials involved in censorship and the regime’s continued human rights abuses. As Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity, Gardner has been a leader on North Korea policy and has advocated for the United States to take a stronger position combatting North Korea’s proliferation activities and cyber-related crimes. Background: In April, Gardner urged the Obama Administration to act following reports that the regime is expanding its nuclear stockpile. In May, Gardner introduced a resolution urging new sanctions on North Korea in reaction to the regime’s long history of human rights abuses, military threats, and international law violations. In August, Gardner met with South Korean President Park Geun-hye and discussed the threat the regime poses to South Korea and the region. In October, Gardner chaired a Foreign Relations Committee hearing on North Korea and the Obama Administration’s failed policies, and reacted to the Obama Administration’s announcement of limited new sanctions, calling them “not nearly enough.” Later that month, Gardner along with Senators Rubio and Risch introduced the North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act. Senators Kelly Ayotte (R-NH), Roy Blunt (R-MO), Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV), John Cornyn (R-TX), Tom Cotton (R-AR), Ted Cruz (R-TX), Steve Daines (R-MT), Lindsey Graham (R-SC), Orrin Hatch (R-UT), James Inhofe (R-OK), Johnny Isakson (R-GA), Mark Kirk (R-IL), David Perdue (R-GA), Jim Risch (R-ID), Pat Roberts (R-KS), Mike Rounds (R-SD), Marco Rubio (R-FL), and Dan Sullivan (R-AK) are cosponsors of the North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act. In an op-ed in the Wall Street Journal, Gardner discusses the legislation he introduced and urges action against the “Forgotten Maniac.” After the regime’s nuclear test in early January, Gardner responded by calling for immediate action and was disappointed the President failed to mention North Korea or its most recent test during his final State of the Union address. Gardner reacted to North Korea’s missile February launch by calling for mandatory sanctions. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
02.06.2016	02.06.16 Gardner Statement on North Korea’s Missile Launch Washington, DC – U.S. Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statement after reports that North Korea launched a missile: “North Korea’s latest act of belligerence is further evidence that we must act to counter the Forgotten Maniac,” said Gardner. “Today’s reported missile launch comes at the heels of North Korea’s fourth nuclear test, and third nuclear test during the Obama Administration. We must act swiftly to reverse the President’s policy of ‘strategic patience,’ and pursue mandatory sanctions aimed at changing North Korea’s pattern of illicit behavior and peacefully disarming the regime.” As Chairman of the Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy, Gardner has advocated for tougher sanctions on the North Korean regime. He introduced legislation, the North Korea Sanctions Policy and Enhancement Act, which was approved by the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. The bill imposes mandatory sanctions on individuals who contribute to North Korea’s nuclear program and proliferation activities, malicious cyberattacks, censorship of its citizens, and the regime’s continued human rights abuses. This legislation, if enacted and signed into law, would be the first passed by Congress to impose mandatory sanctions on cybercriminals, providing a drastic new direction away from the current discretionary sanctions. Background: · In April, Gardner urged the Obama Administration to act following reports that the regime is expanding its nuclear stockpile. · In May, Gardner introduced a resolution urging new sanctions on North Korea in reaction to the regime’s long history of human rights abuses, military threats, and international law violations. · In August, Gardner met with South Korean President Park Geun-hye and discussed the threat the regime poses to South Korea and the region. · In October, Gardner chaired a Foreign Relations Committee hearing on North Korea and the Obama Administration’s failed policies, and reacted to the Obama Administration’s announcement of limited new sanctions, calling them “not nearly enough.” Later that month, Gardner along with Senators Rubio and Risch introduced the North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act. · In an op-ed in the Wall Street Journal, Gardner discusses the legislation he introduced and urges action against the “Forgotten Maniac.” · After the regime’s nuclear test in early January, Gardner responded by calling for immediate action and was disappointed the President failed to mention North Korea or its most recent test during his final State of the Union address. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
02.05.2016	02.05.16 Gardner Calls for Swift Action After Reports of Falsified Records at Colorado Springs VA “A Simple Investigation is Not Enough” WASHINGTON – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today sent a letter to Veterans Affairs (VA) Secretary Robert McDonald demanding swift action following an Inspector General (IG) report that revealed employees at the Colorado Springs VA clinic hid long wait times for hundreds of veterans. According to the IG report, 228 veterans were forced to wait over 30 days to see a doctor. In 59 of those cases, VA staff entered false information into a database to cover up the long wait times; 28 veterans waited an average of 76 days before getting an appointment, even though their records indicated they were provided with a same-day appointment. The letter reads in full: I write today to express my outrage about the implementation of the Veterans Choice program throughout the state of Colorado. I have received countless complaints from both veterans and providers alike that the management has been a catastrophe. Many of the complaints my office has received have been confirmed by an Office of Inspector General report released on February 4, 2016. Accounts of falsified documentation, lost paperwork, long wait times, veterans who cannot find care and cover-up schemes lead me to ask if the rollout of the Choice program has been willingly and purposely undermined. The Veterans’ Access to Care through Choice, Accountability, and Transparency Act of 2014 sought to expand and ensure access to care for our veterans. This legislation was intended to provide flexibility and choice for veterans who are shut out of the system due to its inefficiencies, and allow them to seek care in the interim from non-VA care providers. This legislation sought to improve transparency within the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), and furthermore gave you the authority to remove any employee of the VA from a Senior Executive Service position based on poor performance. The needs of our veterans are undeniably not being met and the egregious roll out of this law has put veterans’ lives at risk. I demand that the individuals responsible for this mismanagement are held accountable for their actions. A simple investigation is not enough. Any VA employee found to have been involved in these scams needs to be immediately discharged without pay and should be further investigated to determine if criminal charges should be pursued. This situation is an absolute disgrace to our men and women in uniform, and I am appalled at the mistreatment of those who deserve our attention the most. The VA’s inability to manage their care is an embarrassment to our country, and an offense to those who sacrificed so much. I demand that you act quickly to repair this disaster. Gardner previously sent a letter to Secretary McDonald regarding the VA Choice Program after reports indicated many non-VA providers are not reimbursed in a timely manner, which has led to fewer options for veterans who are now refused care due to the VA’s widespread mismanagement. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
02.05.2016	02.05.16 Gardner Demands Answers from VA Secretary McDonald on Choice Program WASHINGTON – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today sent a letter to Veterans Affairs (VA) Secretary Robert McDonald regarding non-VA medical providers not being reimbursed for the care they provide to our veterans. The bipartisan Veterans’ Access to Care through Choice, Accountability, and Transparency Act of 2014 stipulates veterans may seek care at non-VA facilities and those facilities are to be reimbursed by the VA. Multiple reports out of Colorado indicate many non-VA providers are not being reimbursed in a timely manner, and many of these providers now refuse to see veterans because of mismanagement at the VA. The letter reads in full: I write today to express my deep concern about a number of complaints I have received from non-VA medical providers that are not being reimbursed for their services to veterans in Colorado, and ask that you take immediate action in response to these complaints. As the result of the shameful treatment of veterans seeking care at the VA, Congress passed and the President signed the Veterans’ Access to Care through Choice, Accountability, and Transparency Act of 2014. The intention of this bi-partisan effort was to provide additional care options and more timely care of veterans who are shut out of the system. The reports from veterans and medical providers of the Choice program that I have received are deeply concerning and contradictory to this effort. Numerous licensed and registered non-VA providers— many of which are veteran owned— are hesitating to accept VA patients due to the mismanagement of their claims. Non-VA providers have reported that they are not being reimbursed in a timely manner, and in many cases not being reimbursed at all. Several of these reports indicate that claims have been outstanding for 90 days or more, and include accounts of lost paperwork and the mismanagement of patient documentation. As a result of this poor management, several providers have decided to refuse veterans altogether. The implementation of the Veterans’ Choice program in both rural and urban Colorado has been unacceptable. Any disruption or lack of care to veterans in need is a complete violation of the contract that these men and women made with their country when they served. I urge you to take immediate action to hold the culprits of this travesty accountable, and restore the integrity of the Veterans’ Choice program. Due to the severity of this matter, I ask that you respond to this inquiry with a detailed explanation and summary as to how this matter has been taken care of by March 5, 2016. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
02.05.2016	02.05.16 Gardner Joins Measure to Reduce Red Tape Washington, DC: U.S. Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today announced he joined his colleagues in supporting S. 1944, the Regulations Endanger Democracy (RED) Tape Act. Introduced by Sen. Dan Sullivan (R-AK), the RED Tape Act reduces federal regulations by stating any new regulation with an associated financial cost or administrative burden must be offset by repealing an existing regulation. The legislation mandates federal agencies publish a list of new incoming regulations as well as how the agency will offset them twice per year to ensure transparency and accountability. “Whether you are a farmer in Greeley or a craft brewery owner in Boulder, Coloradans have consistently expressed their frustration with overly burdensome federal regulations,” said Gardner. “Instead of bogging down our entrepreneurs with endless paperwork stemming from rules created by Washington bureaucrats, we should be incentivizing innovation and doing everything we can to make it easier for our small businesses to succeed. The RED Tape Act would serve as a much-needed check on Washington overreach and provide relief to Americans across the country.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
02.04.2016	02.04.16 Gardner Sends Letter to DOL Secretary Following Complaints About Visa Processing Delays WASHINGTON – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today sent a letter to the Department of Labor (DOL) Secretary Thomas Perez after Coloradans expressed they are experiencing massive processing delays impacting applicants to the H-1B, H-2A, and H-2B visa programs, which are critical to Colorado’s high-tech, agriculture, and tourism industries. The letter reads in full: Dear Secretary Perez: I write to request an expedited resolution to the processing delays currently impacting applicants to the H-1B, H-2A, and H-2B visa programs and inquire as to the technical reasons such delays continue at the Department of Labor (DOL). Over the last several days, my office has received a marked increase in letters and phone calls from constituents experiencing significant delays in the processing time of their applications for H-1B, H-2A, and H-2B visas. These visas are critical to the high-tech, agriculture, and tourism industries throughout my state and the labor provided through these programs helps fuel Colorado’s economy. Delays in the processing of these visa applications is negatively impacting a wide range of industries and workers, from sheepherders to landscapers and hotel staff to programmers. On January 27, 2016, DOL issued a statement claiming that “performance issues” with the underlying infrastructure in the iCERT Visa Portal System are to blame for the delayed processing times, but no updates regarding this issue have been published on DOL’s website since that time. This lack of real-time information is unacceptable. Employers’ business models throughout Colorado and the country rely on the efficient processing of these visas and reliable information from DOL. As DOL works to restore the regular processing of these visas, my constituents deserve an answer as to the reason for such delays in the first place. Has DOL experienced similar issues with its network infrastructure in the past? If so, how long did significant processing delays continue to impact applications after the network was fully operational again? What efforts has DOL taken to ensure that a situation like this does not happen again? And finally, when does DOL expect the current “network infrastructure” issues will be resolved? I look forward to a speedy resolution to these processing delays and a prompt response to my questions. If you have any questions regarding this letter, please contact my Washington, D.C. staff at (202) 224-5941. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
02.04.2016	02.04.16 CO & NC Senators Put Their Pride On The Line With Super Bowl 50 Wager WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Michael Bennet (D-CO) have accepted Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Richard Burr’s (R-NC) challenge to put their NFL team pride on the line by wagering the delivery of a Senate floor speech on the outcome of Super Bowl 50 between the Carolina Panthers and the Denver Broncos. The wager requires the freshman Senator representing the losing team to deliver a speech on the Senate floor congratulating the Super Bowl champion that meets the following conditions: The losing freshman Senator must give specific shout outs to the Super Bowl champion’s head coach, quarterback, fan base, and detail the greatness of the Super Bowl champion’s home state. The losing Senators must wear a tie of the team color of the Super Bowl champion during the speech. The winning freshman Senator must be presiding over the Senate as the losing freshman Senator delivers his speech. For an added dose of humility, the written remarks must be reviewed and approved in advance by the winning Senators. “This Sunday night, Panthers fans across the Carolinas and the rest of the nation will be rejoicing after the team wins its first Super Bowl,” said Senators Tillis and Burr. “We look forward to seeing our freshman colleague from Colorado take to the Senate floor as he acknowledges the passing of the mantle from Peyton Manning to Cam Newton as the NFL’s newest legend, praises the unwavering devotion of the Panthers fan base, and recognizes that the Panthers are truly one of the greatest teams in NFL history. We can only hope that Senator Gardner will conclude his speech by gifting Panthers fans with his best rendition of Neil Diamond’s ‘Sweet Caroline.’” “When Senators Tillis and Burr proposed this friendly Super Bowl wager, we didn’t have to think twice about accepting their challenge,” said Senators Gardner and Bennet. “We have 100% confidence in the Broncos and Peyton Manning. The legendary John Elway and Head Coach Gary Kubiak put together a championship caliber team, and we know their hard work and year-long preparation will pay off on Sunday. We are certain the best defense in the league will bring the Panthers offense to a halt, and the Broncos will return to Colorado with the Lombardi Trophy. On behalf of the state of Colorado and Broncos fans everywhere, we look forward to hearing the junior Senator from North Carolina, Senator Tillis, deliver a humbling speech on the Senate floor where he will congratulate the Denver Broncos on their hard fought victory, Peyton Manning’s second Super Bowl title, and the entire Broncos organization on their third Super Bowl victory.” ###
02.04.2016	02.04.16 Senate to Vote on Gardner North Korea Sanctions Legislation Next Week WASHINGTON – The Senate is scheduled to vote on Senator Cory Gardner’s (R-CO) North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act, which was approved by the Senate Foreign Relations Committee unanimously on January 28, 2016, on Wednesday, February 10th, 2016. This legislation sanctions individuals who contribute to North Korea’s nuclear program and proliferation activities, imposes mandatory sanctions on cybercriminals, as well as officials involved in censorship and the regime’s continued human rights abuses. As Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity, Gardner has been a leader on North Korea policy and has advocated for the United States to take a stronger position combatting North Korea’s proliferation activities and cyber-related crimes. Background: In April, Gardner urged the Obama Administration to act following reports that the regime is expanding its nuclear stockpile. In May, Gardner introduced a resolution urging new sanctions on North Korea in reaction to the regime’s long history of human rights abuses, military threats, and international law violations. In August, Gardner met with South Korean President Park Geun-hye and discussed the threat the regime poses to South Korea and the region. In October, Gardner chaired a Foreign Relations Committee hearing on North Korea and the Obama Administration’s failed policies, and reacted to the Obama Administration’s announcement of limited new sanctions, calling them “not nearly enough.” Later that month, Gardner along with Senators Rubio and Risch introduced the North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act. Senators Marco Rubio (R-FL), Jim Risch (R-ID), David Perdue (R-GA), Johnny Isakson (R-GA), Kelly Ayotte (R-NH), Roy Blunt (R-MO), Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV), John Cornyn (R-TX), Tom Cotton (R-AR), Steve Daines (R-MT), Orrin Hatch (R-UT), Mark Kirk (R-IL), Pat Roberts (R-KS), Mike Rounds (R-SD), and Dan Sullivan (R-AK) are cosponsors of the North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act. In an op-ed in the Wall Street Journal, Gardner discusses the legislation he introduced and urges action against the “Forgotten Maniac.” After the regime’s nuclear test in early January, Gardner responded by calling for immediate action and was disappointed the President failed to mention North Korea or its most recent test during his final State of the Union address. On January 12, 2016, the House of Representative passed legislation that imposes sanctions on North Korea. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
02.03.2016	02.03.16 ICYMI: Gardner Discusses Colorado Priorities in Comprehensive Energy Legislation Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), a member of the Energy and Natural Resources Committee, spoke on the U.S. Senate Floor in support of the Energy Policy Modernization Act. The Energy Policy Modernization Act prioritizes energy efficiency, modernizes aging infrastructure, and increases our energy supply. Additionally, the legislation permanently reauthorizes the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF), a critical initiative that preserves public lands and ensures public access to the outdoors. Gardner has repeatedly called for and voted for the permanent reauthorization of the LWCF as it would provide certainty and benefit the economy, sportsmen, wildlife, and the next generation of Coloradans who wish to enjoy the State’s great outdoors. [Click here to view the video] Remarks as prepared for delivery: “Mr. President, I would like to take a moment to applaud the good work of Chairman Murkowski and Ranking Member Cantwell to get this bill – the Energy Policy Modernization Act of 2016 – to the Senate floor. “They have been leaders and shown their commitment to developing and advancing this bipartisan bill. “The bill is the result of nearly a year’s worth of work on the Energy and Natural Resources Committee, with four legislative hearings leading up to a July markup. “There have been many hours put into this base text, and we had a strong bipartisan vote to report the bill out of committee by 18-4. “It is also nice to see that Members have had the opportunity to make this bill even stronger through an open amendment process on the Senate floor. “The Energy Policy Modernization Act will lead to more energy efficiency, more energy generation, and more jobs in the energy sector. “Promoting energy efficiency and clean alternative power sources have been a focus of my career in public service, and I am pleased that I’ve had a chance with my role on the Energy and Natural Resources Committee to continue shaping federal energy policy in the United States Senate. “I’d like to highlight several provisions that I’ve helped champion in the base text. “Section 1006 would encourage the use of Energy Savings Performance Contracts and Utility Energy Savings Contracts in federal buildings. “These tools are innovative public-private partnerships in which private companies use private dollars to make efficiency upgrades to federal buildings The private companies are reimbursed for the upgrades once the federal building’s energy costs are lowered. “Last night, I had an amendment that passed by voice vote which requires federal agencies to implement energy savings projects at federal facilities. “Mandatory federal audits already outline energy savings projects for federal facilities aimed at reducing energy consumption and saving tax dollars, however federal agencies were not required to implement these changes. “My bipartisan amendment changes that, and I’m pleased we were able to add this commonsense amendment to the energy bill. “Section 3002 would reauthorize a Department of Energy program for ten additional years to provide funding to retrofit existing dams and river conduits with electricity-generating technology. “According to DOE reports, there are up to 12 gigawatts of untapped hydropower development within the nation’s existing dam infrastructure, and only three percent of the nation’s 80,000 existing dams are used to generate clean hydroelectric power. “We’ve heard from the Colorado Small Hydro Association that there are new Colorado hydroelectric projects benefiting from this program that was originally authorized in the Energy Policy Act of 2005. “These projects include new small hydro projects near Ouray, Creede, Grand Lake and Ridgway, Colorado. “Another measure I’ve backed for years is Section 2201, which expedites the approval of liquefied natural gas export applications. “This policy helps support our allies overseas with a secure energy source and creates American jobs. “I also worked on Section 4101 to commission a study of the feasibility and potential benefits that could be brought about by an energy-water center of excellence within the Department of Energy’s National Laboratories. “An energy-water center of excellence would aid in efforts to establish a comprehensive approach for managing energy and water resources in the future. “In Section 3017, I worked to clarify that oilseed crops are eligible to qualify for the same research provisions as biomass. “Meeting future demand for energy and fuel will require a variety of sources, and science and research indicate that oilseed crops have the potential to play a significant role. “The Central Great Plains Research Station in Akron, Colorado is researching oilseed productivity under varying water availability. “Meeting our energy needs in an increasingly drought-ridden area will only become harder and harder. “Without enough research, we may not have an appropriate response. But with continued innovation, we may have a great one. “Oilseeds could hold the key to providing safe, clean energy that’s water-efficient – a key for the increasingly drought-ridden West. “Mr. President, these are only a few of the provisions I worked on to advance in this bill, and I thank my colleagues for including these provisions which are so important to my home state of Colorado. “I look forward to supporting final passage of the Energy Policy Modernization Act. “Mr. President, I yield back.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
02.02.2016	02.02.16 Gardner Amendment Included in Comprehensive Energy Overhaul Package Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the below statement after the Senate unanimously approved his amendment, which requires federal agencies to implement energy savings projects at federal facilities, to the Energy Policy Modernization Act. Mandatory federal audits already outline energy savings projects for federal facilities aimed at reducing energy consumption and saving tax dollars; however, federal agencies are currently not required to implement these changes. The amendment allows the projects to be paid for by energy savings performance contracts (ESPCs) or utility energy savings contracts (UESCs). ESPCs and UESCs allow private companies to use private dollars to make energy efficiency upgrades to federal buildings. “I’m pleased the Senate approved this commonsense amendment, which will both increase energy efficiency and save hardworking taxpayers’ dollars,” said Gardner. “It strengthens the Energy Policy Modernization Act, a much-needed bipartisan, comprehensive overhaul of our energy policy, and I look forward to its passage on the Senate floor.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
01.29.2016	01.29.16 Gardner Celebrates National School Choice Week Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement after the Senate unanimously approved a resolution designating the week of January 24th to January 30th as National School Choice Week: “National School Choice Week highlights the importance of empowering parents with greater control over their children’s education, and the benefits that come with it," said Gardner. "A good education is the foundation for success, and parents are in the best position to determine what school matches their child’s individual educational needs. I have remained a strong proponent of expanding school choice as it improves quality and encourages competition, and I’ll continue to work to maximize parental choice for childhood education in order to provide our children with more opportunities to excel.” Throughout his career, Gardner has advocated for expanding school choice. The Every Student Succeeds Act (ESSA), a bipartisan overhaul of the No Child Left Behind Act and federal education policy, included provisions that Gardner authored, including an amendment that ensures charter schools have a seat at the table in education development planning. Additionally, Gardner recently submitted an amicus brief to the United States Supreme Court in support of Douglas County School District’s Choice Scholarship Program. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
01.28.2016	01.28.16 Foreign Relations Committee Approves Gardner’s North Korea Sanctions Bill Washington, DC – The Senate Foreign Relations Committee today approved Senator Cory Gardner’s (R-CO) North Korea Sanctions Policy and Enhancement Act. The legislation would impose mandatory sanctions on individuals who contribute to North Korea’s nuclear program and proliferation activities, its malicious cyberattacks, as well as individuals involved in censorship and who have contributed to the regime’s continued human rights abuses. This legislation, if enacted and signed into law, would be the first passed by Congress to impose mandatory sanctions on cybercriminals, providing a drastic new direction away from the current discretionary sanctions. Senators Marco Rubio (R-FL), Jim Risch (R-ID), David Perdue (R-GA), Johnny Isakson (R-GA), Kelly Ayotte (R-NH), Roy Blunt (R-MO), Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV), John Cornyn (R-TX), Tom Cotton (R-AR), Steve Daines (R-MT), Orrin Hatch (R-UT), Mark Kirk (R-IL), Pat Roberts (R-KS), and Mike Rounds (R-SD) are cosponsors of the North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act. “The Obama Administration’s policy of ‘strategic patience’ toward North Korea has been a strategic failure. Despite North Korea’s repeated nuclear tests and long record of gross human rights atrocities, which represent a grave threat to global security, North Korea’s Forgotten Maniac has been met with indifference instead of strength. North Korea’s fourth nuclear test earlier this month marks the third nuclear test to take place during the Obama Administration, providing further evidence that Pyongyang’s capabilities are growing and reaffirming that we can no longer afford to turn a blind eye to the North Korean threat,” said Gardner. “The North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act imposes broad, mandatory sanctions on the North Korean regime in order to apply the pressure required to change North Korea’s pattern of illicit activities that have gone unchecked for too long. I thank Chairman Corker for his leadership, and look forward to this bill moving through the legislative process.” As Chairman of the Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy, Gardner has long advocated to address the North Korean threat through legislative action. In April, he urged the Obama Administration to act following reports that the regime is expanding its nuclear stockpile. In May, he introduced a resolution urging new sanctions on North Korea in reaction to the regime’s long history of human rights abuses, military threats, and international law violations. In August, he met with South Korean President Park Geun-hye and discussed the threat the regime poses to South Korea and the region. In October, Gardner chaired a Foreign Relations Committee hearing on North Korea and the Obama Administration’s failed policies, and reacted to the Obama Administration’s announcement of limited new sanctions, calling them “not nearly enough.” Later that month, Gardner along with Senators Rubio and Risch introduced the North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act. In an op-ed in the Wall Street Journal, Gardner discusses the legislation he introduced and urges action against the “Forgotten Maniac.” After the regime’s nuclear test in early January, Gardner responded by calling for immediate action and was disappointed the President failed to mention North Korea or its most recent test during his final State of the Union address. On January 12, 2016, the House of Representatives passed legislation that imposes sanctions on North Korea, and the Senate is expected to act in the coming weeks. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
01.26.2016	01.26.16 Gardner Reacts to Secretary Carter’s Admission That Transfer of GTMO Detainees to the U.S. is “Against the Law" Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement after Department of Defense Secretary Ash Carter stated that the transfer of Guantanamo Bay detainees to the United States is “against the law:" “Secretary Carter is the second top Administration official to confirm what Congress and Americans across the country already know: the President’s potential transfer of Guantanamo detainees to the United States is illegal,” said Gardner. “The President must recognize that he should not prioritize the fulfillment of a campaign promise over the law and the will of the American people. I remain firmly opposed to the transfer of any detainees to U.S. soil, and will remain vigilant in assuring the law of the land is upheld." Background: In a statement before the House Judiciary Committee, U.S. Attorney General Loretta Lynch stated that existing law does not permit the Obama Administration to transfer Guantanamo Bay detainees to the United States. In November of 2015, Gardner along with Senators Tim Scott (R-SC) and Pat Robert (R-KS) held a press conference in response to the White House’s announcement that the President will not rule out executive action to close Guantanamo Bay. The potential transfer was met with opposition locally in Colorado. In November of 2015, more than 40 sheriffs sent the President a letter expressing “strong opposition” to the potential transfer. In October of 2015, Gardner sent a letter to President Obama asking for clarification on the legal authority of the Administration’s actions in response to reports of the Administration’s plan to conduct relocation site visits in Colorado. Gardner has not received a response to the letter to date. In September of 2015, Gardner urged the President to abandon his potential plan to bring Guantanamo detainees to the United States after learning about it through media reports. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
01.21.2016	01.21.16 Secretary Kerry Admits Iran Deal Funds Terror Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, released the following statement today following Secretary of State John Kerry’s admission in Davos, Switzerland that money released to the Iranian regime through the Administration’s deal with Iran will be used to fund terrorism: “The Iranian regime is the world’s leading state sponsor of terror, and many of us have warned from the beginning that money released to the regime would be used to fund terrorism. Secretary Kerry has now admitted as much. “The world should be under no illusions about the character of the regime in Tehran. Groups funded by Iran have killed innocents in Syria. They have killed Israelis. They have killed Americans. Now, Iran has access to massive new sources of revenue with which to fund those groups. “The Administration seems convinced that their endless concessions to Iran will provoke a change in behavior. That has proven to be laughably false. In just the few months since their deal was announced, Iran has conducted multiple illegal ballistic missile tests. They have continued to ship resources and weapons to Bashar al-Assad. And they have violated U.N. travel restrictions by sending abroad Qassem Soleimani, a known terrorist and Iranian General who is responsible for supplying IEDs to Iraqi insurgents to kill Americans. “Iran has funded terror. Iran will continue to fund terror. Now, however, they have billions more to do it with. It is my hope that a future White House reverses this dangerous course and puts the Iranian regime under the economic and political pressure necessary to truly change their behavior.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
01.21.2016	01.21.16 Gardner Votes to Protect Water for Colorado Farmers and Ranchers Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement after voting in support of overriding President Obama’s veto of S.J.Res.22, which would have overturned the so-called Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rule: “A bipartisan majority of the Senate came together to reject WOTUS, an attempt to massively expand the federal government’s role in the management of local water. Instead of seizing an opportunity to meaningfully reduce the scope of burdensome regulations squeezing our economy, President Obama vetoed our resolution. Today, I was proud to cast a vote to support overturning that veto. “WOTUS has already been put on hold by the courts for a simple reason: it represents a massive, unconstitutional takeover of ponds, streams, and ditches which will be burdensome and costly for our nation’s farmers and ranchers. The responsibility for managing Colorado’s water should be left to state and local governments along with our water districts, not with the federal government through overreaching regulations like WOTUS. I will continue to forcefully oppose WOTUS and take any steps possible to block its implementation.” Senator Gardner has been a consistent opponent of the WOTUS rule. He denounced the final WOTUS Rule upon its unveiling last May and applauded the decision by Federal Judge Ralph Erickson to halt the rule’s implementation in 13 states. In September, he signed on as a co-sponsor of the resolution of disapproval authored by Senator Ernst (R-IA) which would later pass the Senate. When the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals halted implementation of WOTUS nationwide in October, Gardner called it “a victory for agriculture, rural communities, and all Coloradans.” In November, he voted in favor of the Federal Water Quality Protection Act, which would have forced the Environmental Protection Agency and Army Corps of Engineers to re-write the WOTUS rule with much stronger state and agricultural protections as well as more input from local communities. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
01.19.2016	01.19.16 Gardner, Bennet, Tipton Release Discussion Draft to Facilitate Good Samaritan Orphan Mine Cleanup Washington – Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO), Michael Bennet (D-CO), and Representative Scott Tipton (CO-03) today released a draft of the Good Samaritan Cleanup of Orphan Mines Act, legislation designed to allow Good Samaritans, such as the mining industry, state agencies, local governments, nonprofits, and other groups, the opportunity to clean up the environment and improve water quality in and around orphan mines. The Colorado Members look forward to working with the U.S. Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works to move this discussion draft forward and reach consensus on a bipartisan Good Samaritan bill. According to the Government Accountability Office (GAO), in 2008 more than 160,000 estimated abandoned hardrock mines existed across the United States, and at least 33,000 of them pose environmental or safety concerns. These orphan mine sites continuously pollute waters and land, and many sites do not have past or current responsible owners. However, there are Good Samaritans with no connection to orphan mine sites that want to offer assistance in cleanup efforts, but are unwilling to enter these sites without liability protections from certain liability issues. States and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) do not have adequate funds to cleanup orphan mine sites on their own, and current environmental laws deter Good Samaritans from entering the sites for cleanup. The Good Samaritan Cleanup of Orphan Mines Act is designed to allow Good Samaritans the opportunity to apply for a permit under a State or Indian tribe’s program or from the EPA to assist in the environmental cleanup of orphan mines across the United States. This legislation is narrowly tailored to exempt Good Samaritan cleanup efforts from liability at orphan mines only from those provisions necessary under the Clean Water Act and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980. At the same time, the bill holds Good Samaritans liable under all laws if they fail to comply with the terms of their permit, but provides an exception if the failure results in only minor impacts. Lastly, the legislation expires in 10 years, which provides Congress the opportunity to determine if the Good Samaritan program contributed to the cleanup of orphan mines resulting in a cleaner environment and improved water quality conditions. “The aftermath of the Gold King Mine spill shed light on the need for remediation of orphan mines in Colorado and across the West. While there are willing and able Good Samaritans who wish to address safety and environmental concerns and improve water quality at orphan mines, the EPA has done little to incentivize them and the fear of liability for meeting all federal standards during cleanup is too great," said Gardner. “The Good Samaritan Cleanup of Orphan Mines Act would ultimately lead to an improved environment. Similar legislative efforts have received broad bipartisan support in the past, and I’m hopeful that we can continue our work together to reduce the risks associated with a spill similar to the Gold King Mine disaster and protect our treasured lands and water in Colorado. I look forward to full consideration of the Good Samaritan concept as we move through the legislative process.” “The Gold King Mine spill was a sharp reminder of the imperative to clean up the thousands of abandoned mines in Colorado and throughout the West,” Bennet said. “Part of that solution is to craft a Good Samaritan policy with the help of the state, local communities and their partners. This discussion draft is the result of those ongoing conversations and will allow us to gather additional feedback to ensure we introduce a bill that offers proper protections for these groups and helps pave a path to cleaning up these mines.” “It’s no secret that more needs to be done to clean up the contamination in abandoned mines that is leaking into our streams and rivers. This problem exceeds the EPA’s capabilities and know-how—the Gold King mine blowout is proof enough of that. However, by incentivizing cleanup at the local level through Good Samaritan groups that possess the technical knowledge and expertise desperately needed to get the job done, we can make significant strides toward protecting our environment from continued contamination,” said Tipton. “Our discussion draft legislation, the Good Samaritan Cleanup of Orphan Mines Act, seeks to remove regulatory hurdles that currently discourage and prevent these groups from cleaning up contamination in abandoned mines, empowering them to take action. I look forward to hearing community feedback on this draft, and continuing to work with my Colorado colleagues to ensure that this challenge is met with the most effective solution possible.” ###
01.18.2016	01.18.16 Gardner Marks Martin Luther King, Jr. Day Washington – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement marking Martin Luther King, Jr. Day: “Martin Luther King, Jr. inspired all Americans to see the best in ourselves, and his life remains an example to which we should all aspire. Our country is at its best when we embody the values that Dr. King professed: respect, tolerance, and love. I join all Coloradans in celebrating Dr. King’s life, honoring his memory, and resolving anew to live up to our highest, noblest ideals.” ###
01.16.2016	01.16.16 Gardner Statement on Iran Deal Implementation Washington – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the following statement marking the implementation of the Iran Nuclear Deal: “In just the few short months between when this deal was agreed to and today’s implementation, the Iranian regime has conducted illegal ballistic missile tests, violated U.N. travel restrictions by sending known terrorists abroad, and detained American sailors at gunpoint. And yet today, the Obama Administration is poised to begin a transfer of around a hundred billion dollars into Iranian coffers. “The Administration is embarking on a tragic mistake, a mistake whose ramifications will be felt throughout the region and the world for years to come. The consequences of this deal will be felt in Yemen, where Iranian boats ferry weapons to Houthi rebels. The consequences will be felt in Syria, where Bashar al-Assad’s barrel bombs, paid for in part by Iran, drop on civilian homes. And the consequences will be felt in Israel, where rockets funded by Iran and fired by Hamas fly over the border and towards cities and towns. With billions more in available resources, Iran could drastically expand these activities. “It is my hope that a future White House works to reverse this course and put Iran under the pressure necessary to truly change their behavior. For now, the message to bad actors around the world is clear: act aggressively enough, for long enough, and your behavior will be rewarded. That is not what the United States of America should stand for.” Senator Gardner has been a vocal opponent of the President’s deal with Iran. He warned before the deal was struck about the dangers of a nuclear Iran, and denounced the deal when it was announced as a “bad deal with the murderous Iranian regime”. After reports of Iranian violations of U.N. sanctions, Gardner sent a letter to President Obama asking for a response to those actions. On the floor of the Senate, Gardner spoke out about the troubling aspects of the deal and urged his colleagues to reject it. In October, Gardner asked Secretary of State John Kerry whether the Administration believed Iranian Ballistic Missile Launches violated a U.N. ban. In December, Gardner urged action against Iran for their repeated violations of ballistic missile test bans. At a Foreign Relations Committee hearing, Senator Gardner’s questioning revealed the Administration’s highly permissive attitude towards Iran’s bad behavior. ###
01.15.2016	01.15.16 Gardner, Scott, Roberts Unite Against Transferring Terrorists to Any Domestic Location Transferring terrorists to U.S. Still Illegal Washington – Following Defense Secretary Ash Carter’s announcement that he has submitted a plan to President Obama to close the Guantanamo Bay detention center and move dozens of dangerous terrorists to a domestic location, U.S. Senators Cory Gardner, (R-CO), Tim Scott (R-SC), and Pat Roberts (R-KS) released the statement below: “No matter how hard the President wishes it wasn’t the case, transferring dozens of dangerous terrorists to any domestic location is illegal. It is also clear that closing Guantanamo and moving the detainees to Colorado, South Carolina, or Kansas will not lead to even the smallest change in the beliefs or propaganda of radical Islamic terrorists. The President’s effort to create Gitmo North at a domestic location makes our nation less secure, and places a target square on an American community. We stand united against any attempts to relocate these dangerous terrorists to the mainland, no matter the specific location proposed in the Department of Defense report, and will use all of the tools at our disposal to stop it from happening.” In a speech yesterday, Secretary Carter stated, “Not everyone in GTMO can be safely transferred to another country, so we need an alternative. I have therefore framed for the president a proposal to establish an alternative location. That plan will propose bringing those detainees to an appropriate, secure location in the United States.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
01.14.2016	01.14.16 Gardner Statement on Jakarta Terror Washington – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, released the following statement today after a series of terrorist attacks in Jakarta, the capital of Indonesia: “This deadly attack in Indonesia’s capital is a reminder that the danger posed by Islamic extremism knows no borders. While attention has been rightly focused on events unfolding in the Middle East, nations like Indonesia and others in Asia are often seemingly ignored by leaders in Washington. This is a mistake, one with potentially deadly consequences. “I’m continuing to closely monitor the events unfolding in Jakarta, and will be consulting with experts and government officials to get a clearer picture of what has occurred. Going forward, it’s critical that the United States have a plan in place to work with our allies to combat the threat of Islamic terror in the Asian region and around the world.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
01.13.2016	01.13.16 Gardner: It’s Time for the United States to Lead Through Action on North Korea President Obama fails to address North Korea during State of the Union Washington – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statement on President Obama’s failure to acknowledge North Korea during his final State of the Union address: “During his final State of the Union address, President Obama acknowledged that ‘our foreign policy must be focused on the threat from ISIL and al Qaeda, but it can’t stop there.’ I couldn’t agree with that statement more. That's why I was shocked that the President made no mention of North Korea’s recent nuclear test during his speech. He spoke about strength, leadership, and the power of our example, yet his policy of ‘strategic patience’ toward the forgotten maniac in Pyongyang has failed. “I will continue to fight to change North Korea's behavior through legislation that imposes broad mandatory sanctions on this rogue regime that has no respect for international norms. It's time for the United States to make good on its rhetorical promises and lead through action. During his final year, I urge President Obama to work with Congress to set an example and send a message to the rest of the world that America will not tolerate North Korea's pattern of belligerence." As Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy, Gardner has advocated to address the North Korean threat through legislative action. In October, Gardner introduced the North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act, legislation that sanctions individuals who contribute to North Korea’s nuclear program and proliferation activities, as well as officials involved in censoring the regime’s continued human rights abuses. Senators Marco Rubio (R-FL), Jim Risch (R-ID), David Perdue (R-GA), Tom Cotton (R-AR), Johnny Isakson (R-GA), Mark Kirk (R-IL), Steve Daines (R-MT) and Kelly Ayotte (R-NH) are all cosponsors of the North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act. Additionally, Gardner urged the Obama Administration to take action following reports of North Korea expanding its nuclear stockpile, and introduced a resolution urging new sanctions on North Korea in reaction to the regime’s long history of human rights abuses, military threats, and international law violations. On January 12, 2016, the House of Representatives passed legislation that imposes sanctions on North Korea, and the United States Senate is expected to act next week. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
01.12.2016	01.12.16 Senator Gardner Responds to the 2016 State of the Union “The many challenges the United States is facing, both at home and abroad, know no partisan ideology. And our strategy to address them shouldn’t either.” (Click here to watch my reaction to the State of the Union) WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner today released a video statement responding to President Obama’s 2016 State of the Union Address. His remarks, as prepared, read: Tonight, I joined Coloradans and Americans across the country, hoping to hear President Obama outline a real strategy to strengthen our economy and our security, to hear a plan that would help job creators across this country hire and expand. I hoped to hear how the President would accomplish what he said during his first State of the Union he would accomplish - put partisanship aside, bring the country together, and work with Congress to address the biggest challenges facing our nation. Instead, unfortunately, we heard more of the same, a failed reliance on bigger federal government and no new direction on the growing threat of terror. The many challenges that the United States is facing both at home and abroad know no partisan ideology, and our strategy to address them shouldn’t either. We must have solutions for everyday Americans, not just the favored beneficiaries of growing bureaucracies. Solutions like my Four Corners plan work for all of us, not just some of us, and I hope the President will join me in pursuit of these solutions. Over the last two years, it has become increasingly clear that the President is unwilling to work with Congress and intends to act through executive orders to fulfill his campaign promises. Throughout his presidency, President Obama has acted unilaterally to dramatically alter our country’s laws, while at the same time his Administration continues to cherry-pick statutes of existing laws to enforce. Whether its changes to immigration, health care, or energy policy, the President continues to prioritize his agenda – disregarding our constitutional system of government and further propelling the ‘Washington knows best’ mentality that has failed time and time again. On healthcare, the President continues to make significant changes to Obamacare, adding massive amounts of new spending and additional regulations to a law that doesn’t resemble the one he signed in 2010. The President is unwilling to admit what has become plainly true: that Obamacare just isn’t working, and that it’s time for a new approach. He should work with Congress on a better solution. On Guantanamo Bay, Congress has clearly spoken, and the American people do not want Guantanamo detainees transferred to the United States. Despite an explicit restriction in the law against such a transfer, President Obama has continued to expend taxpayer dollars on their transfer to the United States. On gun control, the President has imposed new restrictions on gun rights. All of these actions are at odds with the careful separation of powers established by our Constitution. There’s no question that our country has made progress thanks to the incredible and unyielding spirit of the American people, but the road to a full recovery still lies ahead. During his last year in the presidency, I urge President Obama to work with Congress – instead of against the people's representatives – to create more opportunities for Americans everywhere. A great America isn't re-invented. Its reinvigorated with the American spirit, the exceptional American people, and the unyielding optimism of the United States of America. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
01.12.2016	01.12.16 Gardner: The President's Policy on North Korea Has Been Rejected Washington – U.S. Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed new sanctions legislation against North Korea by a margin of 418-2: “Today, members of both parties in the House of Representatives overwhelmingly rejected President Obama’s failed policy of ‘strategic patience’ towards North Korea. The drastic expansion of the North Korean regime’s nuclear and ballistic missile arsenal, including their recent fourth test of a nuclear weapon, demonstrates definitively that it’s time for a new course of action. North Korea has now tested nuclear weapons three times since President Obama took office in 2009. “I’ve introduced legislation in the Senate which would impose tough new mandatory sanctions on the regime, forcing President Obama to act. Just today, Senate leadership announced that my legislation will be voted on by the Foreign Relations Committee. I will do everything I can to ensure that my bill passes through the Committee and receives strong support on the Senate floor. Strategic patience has been a strategic failure. It’s time for the United States to lead.” As Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy, Senator Gardner has been a leader on the issue of North Korea in the U.S. Senate. In April, he urged the Obama Administration to take action following reports of North Korea expanding its nuclear stockpile. In May, he introduced a resolution urging new sanctions on North Korea in reaction to the regime’s long history of human rights abuses, military threats, and international law violations. In August, he met with South Korean president Park Geun-hye and discussed the threat posed by the North Korean regime. In October, Gardner chaired a Foreign Relations Committee hearing on North Korea and the Obama Administration’s failed policies and reacted to the Obama Administration’s announcement of limited new sanctions, calling them “not nearly enough”. Later that month, Gardner, along with Senators Risch (R-ID) and Rubio (R-FL) introduced sweeping new sanctions legislation in the Senate. In an op-ed in the Wall Street Journal, Senator Gardner discussed his sanctions legislation, urging action to be taken on North Korea’s “forgotten maniac”. After the regime’s nuclear test in January, Gardner responded by calling for immediate consideration of new sanctions legislation. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
01.12.2016	01.12.16 Senators Gardner, Roberts, and Scott to Sit Together at State of the Union in Unified Opposition to President’s Guantanamo Plan WASHINGTON, D.C. – To show strong and unified opposition to the President’s plan to relocate terrorists held at the detention facility at Guantanamo Bay to American communities, U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO), Pat Roberts (R-KS), and Tim Scott (R-SC) tonight will sit together at the President’s State of the Union Address. The Administration has surveyed sites in South Carolina, Kansas, and Colorado as potential replacements for Guantanamo. Senators Gardner, Roberts, and Scott have led opposition to the President’s plans to again ignore the law, the will of Congress and the American people and use executive action to move the detainees to the mainland. In November of 2015, the President signed into law the National Defense Authorization Act, which contained language blocking the transfer of detainees to the United States for prosecution or detention. Senators Gardner, Roberts, and Scott are concerned with the 30 percent recidivism rate among released detainees, the hundreds of millions of dollars it will cost to construct a new facility, and the fact that opening domestic facility would place a bright red bulls-eye for acts of terror on an American community. In November of 2015, the Senators hosted a press conference on this issue. To view footage of that press conference, click here. ###
01.11.2016	01.11.16 Gardner Returns from Visit to NATO Allies Washington – U.S. Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today that he has returned from Europe, where he visited North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) installations and met with American servicemen and women, including 4th Infantry Division troops deployed out of Fort Carson. From January 7-9, Senator Gardner traveled to facilities in Belgium, Estonia, and Germany, meeting with high ranking military officials and evaluating steps being taken to strengthen the NATO mission and U.S. leadership in Europe. “In my meetings with European officials, as well as United States diplomats and military leaders, we all agreed on the pressing need for United States leadership,” Gardner said. “With so many crises facing our nation and our allies, that leadership is more essential than ever. “Following Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, the NATO alliance received a serious wake-up call. I held discussions on efforts to strengthen NATO’s eastern flank and to reassure our allies that the United States stands firmly behind its NATO commitment, including Article 5 of the NATO Charter regarding collective defense. Our resolve to defend our allies and our values must be unwavering. “I was also pleased to be able to visit with U.S. soldiers based out of Fort Carson who are serving their country across Europe, far from their families. Soldiers from the Fourth Infantry Division are tasked with the incredible responsibility of countering Russian aggression in Europe as part of Operation Atlantic Resolve.” In Belgium, Senator Gardner visited NATO headquarters, where he was briefed on U.S. military posture in Europe and the Russian threat. He also met with General Philip Breedlove, NATO’s Supreme Allied Commander, Europe and Commander of U.S. European Command. In Estonia, Senator Gardner visited Amari Air Base, a joint NATO and Estonian Air Force facility that is also used by United States as part of Operation Atlantic Resolve, NATO’s response to Russia’s actions in Ukraine. Senator Gardner further held discussions with Estonian government officials, including Minister of Defense Hannes Hanso, reiterating U.S. commitment to this important ally and friend of the United States. In Germany, Senator Gardner was met and briefed by Lieutenant General Ben Hodges, the Commanding General of U.S. Army Europe, and Brigadier General James Mingus, deputy commanding general of the 4th Infantry Division at Fort Carson. Senator Gardner concluded by joining 4th Infantry Division troops in the mess hall in Baumholder for dinner. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
01.08.2016	01.08.16 Gardner Statement on President Obama’s Veto of the Obamacare Repeal Act Washington – U.S. Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the below statement following President Obama’s veto of the Obamacare Repeal Act: “After majorities in the House and Senate fulfilled the promise to send a repeal of Obamacare to the President’s desk for the first time, the President ignored the will of the people and vetoed the legislation. The President had the opportunity to bring relief to Coloradans and Americans across the country, but instead he chose politics over policy. “As I travel throughout the state, I continue to hear from countless Coloradans that Obamacare simply does not work. Whether it is the 750,000 Coloradans whose healthcare plans have been cancelled since 2013, the families on the Western Slope coping with 26 percent premium increases, or the recent collapse of the Obamacare-established CO-OP that resulted in 80,000 Coloradans looking for insurance elsewhere, this law has failed the American people and left them with too many broken promises. “I’m disappointed the President prioritized his personal legacy instead of recognizing that his law has failed the American people. It’s time for a new approach. I’ll continue to work with my colleagues toward a patient-centered health care system that preserves quality and lowers costs.” Coloradans have endured massive increases in health care costs. In October, the Denver Business Journal reported that individual health insurance costs are rising “steeply”, while KJCT8 in Grand Junction reported that rates for some people could increase by as much as 30%. The Durango Herald reported that the Western Slope was hit especially hard, with rates up by an average of 26% in the individual market. And Colorado Public Radio reported that 82% of business owners in Colorado cited health insurance rates as their top concern about benefits. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
01.07.2016	01.07.16 Gardner Celebrates Rocky Mountain National Park’s Record Attendance in 2015 Washington – U.S. Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released a statement following reports that Rocky Mountain National Park had a record number of visitors in 2015 as the park celebrated its 100th Anniversary. In 2015, Rocky Mountain National Park’s 100th Anniversary year, more than four million people visited the park, which marks a 21 percent increase compared to the previous year. Senator Gardner spoke at the park’s Centennial Re-Dedication Ceremony on September 4, 2015. “Rocky Mountain National Park is the crown jewel of the National Park system. I am proud the great state of Colorado welcomed more than four million visitors over the course of the past year from Colorado and around the world to visit this national treasure,” Gardner said. "It's our duty to ensure Rocky will continue sharing its grandeur beyond the next 100 years as well. “As a fifth generation Coloradan, I understand how important the National Park Service (NPS) is to our state. I am confident all the parks within Colorado will have a successful 2016 as we celebrate the National Park Service’s 100th birthday. Whether it’s experiencing dinosaur fossils at Dinosaur National Monument, the natural beauty and wildlife at Great Sand Dunes, archeological sites at Mesa Verde, or others, visitors have been struck by our state’s attractions. Here’s to making sure the next hundred years for the NPS are even more successful than the last.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
01.05.2016	01.05.16 Gardner Statement on North Korean Hydrogen Bomb Test Washington – U.S. Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Chairman of the Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, released a statement following North Korea’s announcement that they have tested a hydrogen bomb at their Sungjibaegam test site: "I am monitoring the news developing out of the Korean Peninsula, and hope to have a clearer picture soon of what exactly has occurred. Provocation and belligerence from the dictator in Pyongyang is nothing new. The testing of a hydrogen bomb, however, would serve as a reminder of the danger posed to the world by this often-forgotten maniac who leads a government that grips to power by fear, intimidation, and murder. "I've introduced legislation that would impose tough, new, targeted sanctions on the North Korean regime, with the goal of bringing it to an end. With so much attention being paid to events in the Middle East, it’s important the U.S. and our allies also act on the risk posed to us all by the nuclear-armed madman named Kim Jong Un. “Events like this are a symptom of a failed foreign policy. The Obama Administration’s stance on Russia, Syria, and especially Iran have sent a clear message to dictators and despots around the world: if you act badly enough, for long enough, this Administration will reward your behavior. It’s time for that to stop. It’s time for the United States to provide the leadership that the world so desperately requires.” Senator Gardner has been a leader on the issue of North Korea throughout his time in the U.S. Senate. In April, he urged the Obama Administration to take action following reports of North Korea expanding its nuclear stockpile. In May, he introduced a resolution urging new sanctions on North Korea in reaction to the regime’s long history of human rights abuses, military threats, and international law violations. In August, he met with South Korean president Park Geun-hye and discussed the threat posed by the North Korean regime. In October, Gardner reacted to the Obama Administration’s announcement of limited new sanctions, calling them “not nearly enough”. Later that month, Gardner, along with Senators Risch (R-ID) and Rubio (R-FL) introduced sweeping new sanctions legislation in the Senate. In an op-ed in the Wall Street Journal, Senator Gardner discussed his sanctions legislation, urging action to be taken on North Korea’s “forgotten maniac”. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
01.05.2016	01.05.16 Gardner Statement on President Obama’s Executive Orders on Guns Washington – U.S. Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement following President Obama’s announcement of new executive orders on gun control: “Once again, President Obama has decided to take divisive, unilateral action rather than work with Congress. Today’s announcement makes it clear that he has little respect for the constitutional rights of gun-owning Americans, and even less respect for our constitutional system of government. “The Congress, as representatives of the people, makes the laws. It is the President’s job to enforce those laws. The President is not empowered to make up his own laws when he doesn’t like the ones Congress has written. Executive orders cannot, and should not, stand in place of the Constitution. The desire on the part of the President to govern the entire country based on his own whims is dangerous. “I empathize with the desire of many to do something about recent incidences of violence in our country. But these executive actions would not have prevented many of the tragedies our communities have faced. I will urge my colleagues in Congress to work on solutions to better aid those in America suffering from mental illness, keep guns out of the hands of criminals, and better enforce the countless regulations on gun ownership already on the books. “Restricting the constitutional rights of law-abiding Americans is not now and will never be the answer. I stand with the millions of law-abiding supporters of the Second Amendment, and with all those who respect our constitutional democracy, in opposing the President’s actions today.” Senator Gardner has been a strong supporter of Second Amendment rights going back to his time in the State Legislature. He repeatedly introduced a “Make My Day Better” law in the Colorado State House, which would allow business owners to use deadly force against attackers and intruders. Throughout his time in the U.S. House and Senate, he has continued to support the right of Americans to keep and bear arms. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
12.24.2015	12.24.15 Gardner Wishes Coloradans a Merry Christmas Washington – U.S. Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement marking Christmas: “Jaime and I wish all Coloradans and Americans across the country a Merry Christmas on this joyous day. We are so blessed to live in the greatest nation on Earth, and it is important to take this time to reflect on all that we have to be thankful for and to spend time with family and friends. “I want to recognize the men and women in uniform who have made enormous sacrifices to keep our country safe. Many of our servicemembers are away from their families this Christmas, and it is important to remember their dedication to this great nation. I thank them for their service and pray for their safety. “Merry Christmas and happy New Year.” ###
12.21.2015	12.21.15 Gardner Celebrates 60 Years of ‘NORAD Tracks Santa’ Washington – U.S. Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released a statement today commemorating the 60th year of NORAD Tracks Santa, the North American Aerospace Defense Command’s yearly tradition of tracking the movements of Santa Claus as he traverses the globe on Christmas Eve. The tradition began in 1955, when a misprinted Sears advertisement inadvertently instructed children to call Santa at the phone number of NORAD’s predecessor, the Continental Air Defense Command (CONAD), in Colorado Springs. CONAD’s Director of Operations, Colonel Harry Shoup, instructed his staff to check radar for Santa’s movements down from the North Pole and relay the information to the children calling in. Since that first year, NORAD staff and friends have volunteered their time every Christmas to respond to phone calls from children around the world asking about Santa’s whereabouts at Christmastime. “NORAD’s Santa-tracking has brought 60 years of joy to thousands of children worldwide on Christmas Eve. From their headquarters at Peterson Air Force Base, NORAD staff and friends volunteer their time to help kids keep track of Santa’s movement around the globe. The Santa tracker also brings important attention to the dedicated service of the men and women of NORAD, who work so hard to keep us safe every day of the year. “I’m grateful for their service, and for all those who this year are dedicating part of their holiday to brightening someone else’s. I look forward to hearing updates on Santa’s whereabouts from my own kids after they call into the hotline, and I hope that all Coloradans keep the men and women who serve this country in uniform in their prayers this Christmas season.” Santa can be tracked online at www.noradsanta.org/, or via telephone on December 24th at 1-877-HI-NORAD. ###
12.17.2015	12.17.15 Gardner, Bennet, Hickenlooper, Tipton Send Letter To Secretary Jewell in Support of Trapper Mine Washington – U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Michael Bennet (D-CO), along with Governor John Hickenlooper (D-CO), and Congressman Scott Tipton (R-CO) today sent a letter to U.S. Department of the Interior (DOI) Secretary Sally Jewell urging DOI to complete the court-ordered Environmental Assessment (EA) for Trapper Mine in Craig, Colorado prior to April 30, 2016. Trapper Mine’s permit was covered under the same environmental review that the U.S. District Court in Colorado deemed deficient for Coloywo Mine, but Trapper Mine was initially believed to be unaffected. Further review led to a negotiation with the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement (OSMRE) that requires a new environmental assessment in order to keep Trapper Mine operational. “Trapper employs more than 180 employees with wages and benefits totaling $22 million annually, making it one of the largest employers in Northwest Colorado and a strong component of the local economy,” the letter says. "The mine generated in excess of $10 million in tax and royalty revenues in 2014; funds which are vital for community infrastructure and education. Further, the Trapper Mine contributes approximately 50% of the total fuel for the Craig Power Generating Station, which is another significant employer in the area, and a critical facility for regional electricity production and transmission. The mine also has a track record of developing its resources in a safe and environmentally sound manner,” the lawmakers wrote. "We are confident that your Department fully understands the importance of completing the environmental review in a timely manner, and we commend OSMRE efforts thus far on the Environmental Assessment." The letter reads in full: We write to support the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement’s (OSMRE) work regarding the court-ordered Environmental Assessment (EA) for the Trapper Mine in Craig, Colorado, and urge you to complete the assessment as quickly as possible. Trapper Mine’s permit was covered under the same EA that the U.S. District Court for the District of Colorado deemed deficient for the Colowyo Mine. Trapper Mine’s permit was mistakenly believed to be unaffected as it was thought that the coal resources in question had already been mined. A subsequent review determined that the decision affected significant coal resources. Trapper Mine has since negotiated a remedy with OSMRE and the plaintiffs, under which a new EA must be completed by April 30, 2016. We appreciate OSMRE for their previous efforts regarding the Colowyo Mine. The negotiated agreement represents an opportunity to resolve this litigation without creating further uncertainty for the Trapper Mine. Trapper employs more than 180 employees with wages and benefits totaling $22 million annually, making it one of the largest employers in Northwest Colorado and a strong component of the local economy. The mine generated in excess of $10 million in tax and royalty revenues in 2014; funds which are vital for community infrastructure and education. Further, the Trapper Mine contributes approximately 50% of the total fuel for the Craig Power Generating Station, which is another significant employer in the area, and a critical facility for regional electricity production and transmission. The mine also has a track record of developing its resources in a safe and environmentally sound manner. We are confident that your Department fully understands the importance of completing the environmental review in a timely manner, and we commend OSMRE efforts thus far on the Environmental Assessment. We ask that you provide OSMRE with the necessary resources to meet the deadline and keep our offices informed as the process moves forward. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
12.17.2015	12.17.15 Gardner Responds to President Obama’s Statements on National Security Washington – U.S. Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement today following President Obama’s remarks at the National Counterterrorism Center: “Today, we heard more rhetoric from President Obama about his record on national security. The same President who called ISIS a 'jayvee team', who declared that ISIS was 'contained', and whose Administration just months ago was bragging about their 'strategic patience' in Syria is now seeking to reassure the American people that he has the situation under control. Coloradans and Americans are not buying it. “Administration policy on both terrorism and national security seems aimless. At a hearing today, I was told that the State Department has no plan in place to respond to Iranian ballistic missile tests, nor to inspect 25,000 pounds of nuclear material being transferred from Iran to Russia. Last week, I joined with a group of Senators to urge the President to more aggressively pursue the fight against ISIS. Why these plans are not already in place and being executed is a mystery. “I’m glad the President visited the Pentagon last week and the National Counterterrorism Center this week. But we need more than lofty rhetoric, we need concrete action. The world is waiting.” ###
12.17.2015	12.17.15 Foreign Relations Committee Hearing Reveals Obama Administration’s Permissive Attitude Towards Iran No plans in place to hold Iran accountable for illegal ballistic missile tests nor to inspect 25,000 pounds of nuclear material being transferred to Russia. Click here to watch. Washington, DC – In a hearing of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) asked witnesses from the State Department to lay out the Administration’s plan for dealing with two critical developments regarding with Iran; the Iranian regime’s recent illegal ballistic missile tests, and the impending transfer of 25,000 pounds of nuclear material from Iran to Russia. State Department officials were unable to articulate a plan to deal with either event. In response to the transfer of material to Russia, a State Department official could only state that “we are in the midst of negotiating” such a plan, but that “today we don’t” have one (exchange begins at 1:41 in above video). In response to Iran’s illegal ballistic missile tests, officials stated only that “we are considering active measures, active consequences” (4:15) and “we are actively considering what steps to take in response to the October 10th test.” (5:11). Senator Gardner responded to the Administration’s lack of action at the end of his questioning (beginning at 6:35): “This permissive environment that we have created, in which we acknowledge that Iran is going to continue a program of ballistic missile development regardless of the consequences, that we’ve referred these violations to a committee, that we’ve talked about it, that we’ve sternly reprimanded them, we’ve wagged our finger, has done nothing to protect the American people. “This committee has, I think, done an incredible job of making sure that we understand the facts. But the fact is, we don’t have the response – and the actions to back it up – when Iran has clearly violated. In fact, we haven’t taken any of the steps necessary to prevent them from growing their ballistic missile program, which they will and has been admitted here.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
12.17.2015	
12.15.2015	12.15.15 Gardner Commends Passage of Tribal Energy Development Act Washington – U.S. Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released a statement today following the Senate’s passage last week of the Indian Tribal Energy Development and Self-Determination Act Amendments of 2015, of which he is a co-sponsor. This legislation would amend the Energy Policy Act of 2005 to simplify the Tribal Energy Resource Agreement (TERA) process and allow for more energy development on tribal lands, including renewable energy: “Tribal lands have the potential to make a significant contribution to America’s energy independence. Unfortunately, unnecessary barriers to energy development on tribal lands are holding back that contribution and hindering job creation. Our bill breaks down many barriers to job growth and clears a path for tribes to more fully harness the resources available on their lands. Colorado has been home to tremendous advances in the new energy economy, and I’m proud to support this effort to ensure that tribes can play a vital role in the energy revolution.” More information about this legislation, including a summary and full text, can be found here. ###
12.15.2015	12.15.15 Gardner Thanks Colorado Law Enforcement During Holiday Season Washington – U.S. Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) sent a letter to Colorado law enforcement officers honoring the sacrifices they make to keep Colorado communities safe. In light of recent tragedies in Colorado Springs, Denver, and San Bernardino, California and the law enforcement’s active role in each of them, Gardner expressed the importance of recognizing the heroism that law enforcement officers display on a daily basis. Their commitment to protect and serve communities provides comfort to families across Colorado and the United States, and Gardner’s letter thanks them for their heroic sacrifice. “Driven by courage and the desire to serve, you fulfill a great need throughout our communities. Carrying these values with you as you begin your watch each day when you leave your family to protect mine and so many others,” Gardner wrote. “Your badge identifies you as a source of help in vulnerable times, and behind each badge of police officers, sheriff deputies, correctional officers, and patrol men and women is a heart that extends beyond its own bounds.” The letter reads, in full: Dear Members of the Law Enforcement Community, As we prepare our hearts and homes for the holiday season, I want to take a few moments to express my sincere gratitude for the service and protection you provide the citizens of our wonderful state. In the best of times, patrolling the roadways, being present in our neighborhoods, and maintaining order can be a difficult and dangerous duty. I am proud of the work that the men and women who make up each law enforcement office carry out across the state. On watch in precincts, correctional facilities, and along our highways, you diligently fight to protect our state. Colorado families, including mine, from the Eastern Plains to the Western Slope, remain safe in large part because of each of you. As the guardians of our communities, you prepare to respond to things that most of society simply hopes will not happen to them. Lieutenant Colonel Dave Grossman wrote that American law enforcement is the loyal and brave sheep dog, always standing watch for the wolf that lurks in the dark. With the recent events here at home and abroad, we are reminded of the threats that are hiding in the shadows and the dangers that police officers confront each and every day and yet, you remain steadfast in your commitment to stand up against evil. I am personally grateful for the sacrifices you make and the commitment you demonstrate to protect our state. Your courage and selfless service was exemplified in the recent tragedy in Colorado Springs. As first responders, you are first to encounter the fear, the calls for help, and the danger, but in that fear and danger you provide hope and safety. Driven by courage and the desire to serve, you fulfill a great need throughout our communities. Carrying these values with you as you begin your watch each day when you leave your family to protect mine and so many others. Your badge identifies you as a source of help in vulnerable times, and behind each badge of police officers, sheriff deputies, correctional officers, and patrol men and women is a heart that extends beyond its own bounds. Calling Colorado home rings truer when you also have the honor to safeguard it. I am thankful for your service, and thankful to your families for their continued sacrifice as you dedicate yourself to the people of Colorado. Please know that you are constantly in my family's thoughts and prayers and we wish you each a safe holiday season! Sincerely, Cory Gardner United States Senator
12.14.2015	12.14.15 Gardner, Colleagues Call for Answers on Homegrown Terror Washington – U.S. Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), along with ten Senate colleagues, announced today that they have sent a letter to Federal Bureau of Investigation Director James Comey, Secretary of Homeland Security Jeh Johnson, and Secretary of State John Kerry asking for answers on several questions related to domestic terror. Following a failure of the background check system which in 2013 allowed two terrorists affiliated with al Qaeda to settle in Bowling Green, Kentucky, numerous calls to reform the system emerged. The Senators’ letter asks the recipients whether any recommendations for changes were made as a result of these events, what the results were of the FBI’s subsequent investigation of related terrorists, and whether there are any former or current known terrorists who are currently part of the refugee program. The full letter, also signed by Senators Mark Kirk (R-IL), Johnny Isakson (R-GA), John Cornyn (R-TX), David Vitter (R-LA), Thom Tillis (R-NC), Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV), John Boozman (R-AR), Mike Lee (R-UT), Jerry Moran (R-KS), Tim Scott (R-SC), is below: Dear Director Comey, Secretary Johnson, and Secretary Kerry: In 2013, a failure to screen Iraqi refugees allowed two al Qaeda-linked terrorists to settle in Bowling Green, KY. ABC News reported that these arrests led to a 6-month suspension of the refugee program and an FBI investigation of dozens of suspected terrorists.[1] An ABC News investigation in 2013 reported that a “flawed system of U.S. background checks” allowed Waad Ramadan Alwan and Mohanad Shareef Hammadi, two al Qaeda in Iraq (now called ISIS) terrorists who were part of a bomb-making group responsible for dozens of roadside bombs, one of which killed four members of the Pennsylvania National Guard. After a tip led the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) to begin investigating Alwan and Hammadi, the FBI’s Terrorist Explosive Device Analytical Center (TEDAC) managed to match Alwan’s fingerprints to those found on an unexploded roadside bomb discovered by U.S. troops in Iraq years earlier. Alwan and Hammadi were arrested two years later in an FBI sting operation attempting to send arms and explosives, including Stinger missiles, to insurgents in Iraq. Our law enforcement and intelligence communities deserve great praise for stopping these terrorists from killing more Americans. Yet the terrorists should have never been given the chance. 1) Were there recommendations made to the refugee program as a result of this incident? 2) What are the findings from the FBI investigation on the other dozens of suspected terrorists? 3) Are there former or current known terrorists in the U.S. as part of the refugee program? We look forward to a timely response that we can share with the American people. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
12.10.2015	12.10.15 Gardner, Roberts, Scott Emphasize Dangers of Closing Guantanamo Following News of Former Detainee Becoming al-Qaeda Leader Washington – U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO), Pat Roberts (R-KS), and Tim Scott (R-SC) released the following statements regarding reports that a former detainee at Guantanamo Bay, Ibrahim al-Qosi, has become a senior leader of al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP). Al-Qosi, transferred from Guantanamo to his native Sudan in 2012, appears in a video released this week by AQAP that encourages small cell terror attacks in the West. “The President’s rush to empty the cells at Guantanamo recklessly endangers our national interests abroad and our safety here at home,” Gardner said. “This news confirms what we’ve known all along: Guantanamo Bay houses some of the world’s deadliest terrorists, and the secure facility at Guantanamo is exactly where they belong. They do not belong back on the battlefield fighting against us, nor do they belong on U.S. soil. It’s time for the President to recognize that simple fact, which is already enshrined in U.S. law." “Just seven days after the terrorist attack in San Bernardino and at a time when our nation is vulnerable to both home grown threats and those from abroad, I see no reason to add to these security concerns by placing terrorists currently held at Guantanamo in American communities,” Roberts said. “As we were reminded with these attacks, we are still very much at war with terrorism. Guantanamo should remain open and we should not underestimate the zeal of these terrorists to return to the battlefield. Look no further than former Guantanamo detainee, Ibrahim al-Qosi.” “As the President rushes to transfer detainees out of Guantanamo Bay, we have been given a clear picture of exactly the type of terrorist he is talking about releasing,” Scott said. “These terrorists want another San Bernardino, another Paris, and by basing his national security policies on a political promise to close Guantanamo, I fear the President is only increasing the danger to our nation and our people. Guantanamo is the perfect place to hold some of the world’s most dangerous terrorists, and any effort to close the facility and move the remaining detainees to domestic soil will be met with fierce opposition in Congress and among the American people.” In November, 86 percent of the House and Senate voted for legislation that bars the transfer of Guantanamo detainees to domestic soil. The White House has repeatedly stated their desire for Congress to “get out of the way” and let them close Guantanamo, regardless of the 30 percent recidivism rate among released detainees, the hundreds of millions of dollars it will cost to construct a new facility, and the fact that opening domestic facility would place a bright red bulls eye on an American community. The Administration has already surveyed sites in South Carolina, Kansas, and Colorado as potential replacements for Guantanamo. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
12.09.2015	12.09.15 Gardner Praises Passage of Education Reform Law Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement following the Senate’s passage of the Every Student Succeeds Act (ESSA), a bipartisan overhaul of the No Child Left Behind Act and federal education policy: “The passage of the Every Student Succeeds Act represents a step forward in federal education policy, and I’m proud to have worked with members of both parties on its passage. While not perfect, this act makes progress towards getting Congress out of the classroom, rolling back Common Core, and returning more power to the states and local communities where it belongs. “I’m especially pleased that this legislation includes several amendments I authored and co-sponsored which will make meaningful changes to federal policy, helping talented high schoolers earn college credit before graduation, giving charter schools a seat at the table in educational development planning, and promoting more transparency and better access to education data for lawmakers and researchers looking to improve the system. Also included is an amendment I co-sponsored protecting children from the practice of 'passing the trash', where problem employees, including sex offenders, are transferred from school to school without proper background checks being conducted. “Along with last week’s long-term Highway Bill, the passage of this major bipartisan education legislation is a sign that, after years of dysfunction, the Senate is starting to work again. We’ve made progress on education, transportation, energy policy, entitlement reform and more. While we still have much work to do, I’m excited to be a part of a Senate that is starting, once again, to do the real work we were sent here to do.” In addition to his work on the ESSA, Senator Gardner also submitted an amicus brief to the Supreme Court this month urging them to support the Douglas County School District’s Choice Scholarship Program from an anti-school-choice lawsuit. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
12.08.2015	12.08.15 Gardner on Iranian Belligerence: “Inaction is no longer an option” Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, released the following statement following reports of another ballistic missile test conducted by the Islamic Republic of Iran in violation of United Nations (U.N) Security Council resolutions: “When the President was pursuing his misguided nuclear deal with Iran, many of us warned that Iran would cheat. We warned that Iran, the world’s largest state sponsor of terror, would take billions in sanctions relief while continuing to build up their arsenal, prop up the Assad regime, and arm terror groups dedicated to the destruction of Israel. Iran has done exactly that. “The Obama Administration has been stunningly indifferent. Iran has violated U.N. travel sanctions by sending General Qassem Soleimani, a man responsible for the death of American troops in Iraq, on a visit to Russia. They’ve repeatedly violated U.N. resolutions prohibiting the testing of ballistic missiles, which could be topped with a nuclear warhead. “The American people were told to trust that the Obama Administration could hold Iran accountable for bad behavior. Iran’s recent conduct, and the Administration’s lack of response, prove that the current U.S. policy of engagement with this murderous and deceitful regime is a dangerous farce. I have no confidence that Iran will abide by the terms of the nuclear deal reached this past summer. “It’s time for the Administration to respond to Iranian belligerence. Inaction is no longer an option.” Senator Gardner has been a vocal opponent of the President’s deal with Iran. He warned before the deal was struck about the dangers of a nuclear Iran, and denounced the deal when it was announced as a “bad deal with the murderous Iranian regime”. After reports of Iranian violations of U.N. sanctions, Gardner sent a letter to President Obama asking for a response to those actions. On the floor of the Senate, Gardner spoke out about the troubling aspects of the deal and urged his colleagues to reject it. And in October, Gardner asked Secretary of State John Kerry whether the Administration believed Iranian Ballistic Missile Launches violated a U.N. ban. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
12.08.2015	12.08.15 Gardner, GOP Senators Urge Obama to Pursue Additional Military Options to Combat ISIS Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today joined a group of Senators in sending a letter to President Obama urging him to pursue additional military options to fight ISIS and protect Americans both at home and abroad. “The American people are understandably concerned in the aftermath of the horrific attack in San Bernardino and increasingly apprehensive about the prospect of another terrorist attack on American soil,” the Senators wrote. “To safeguard our own national security, we must step up the military fight against ISIS as soon as possible, but it will require sustained, long-term American engagement to resolve the deeper problems that have allowed ISIS to incubate and gather strength in Syria and Iraq.” The full text of the letter is below: The Honorable Barack Obama President of the United States 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear President Obama: In the wake of the recent wave of devastating terrorist attacks by the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS) on Paris, Beirut, and the Russian airliner flying over Egypt, as well as last week’s attack in San Bernardino that appears to have been inspired by ISIS, we write today to both express support for your stated objective to “degrade and ultimately destroy” ISIS and to urge you to employ more effective means to accomplish that worthy goal. ISIS poses a direct threat to our country, and the magnitude of that threat is growing as a result of this terrorist army’s expanded operational reach. The recent attacks prove that ISIS now has the ability to carry out mass-casualty terrorist attacks well beyond its self-proclaimed “caliphate” in Syria and Iraq. The Director of the Central Intelligence Agency recently warned that ISIS likely has additional attacks planned, and the group has publicly declared its intention to strike the mainland United States. We also know that ISIS is aggressively pursuing a more robust chemical weapons capability and, to that end, has recruited scientists and other technical experts. The American people are understandably concerned in the aftermath of the horrific attack in San Bernardino and increasingly apprehensive about the prospect of another terrorist attack on American soil. Over the past couple of years, as ISIS has murdered and raped its way across the Syrian and Iraqi countryside, it has also succeeded in reenergizing the global jihadi movement, driven by its evil ideology and fueled by its hateful propaganda. The King of Jordan has described the struggle against ISIS in stark terms, calling it a “third world war against humanity.” Likewise, Secretary of Defense Ashton Carter testified recently that “We’re at war” against ISIS. The group’s ranks in Syria and Iraq have swelled to as many as 30,000 jihadists, due in part to its leveraging of social media platforms and dark corners of the Internet to recruit from all over the world. Even more alarming is the threat that ISIS and its adherents now pose to us here at home, in the form of a jihadist already living on U.S. soil and planning the next deadly attack. As a nation, we have a clear and vital interest at stake in Syria and Iraq – preventing terrorist attacks against America and our allies – and that obligates us to intensify the effort to destroy ISIS. That vital interest can only be safeguarded through the elimination of the sanctuary that ISIS has carved out for itself in Iraq and Syria. We believe we are at a strategic inflection point in the fight against ISIS and that, without a well-informed strategy change to arrest this group’s momentum, the task of defeating it will multiply in its difficulty and complexity. We listened carefully to your Oval Office address on Sunday but were disappointed to learn that the same ineffective approach will continue to be implemented. In September, the former Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Martin Dempsey, characterized the fight against ISIS as “tactically stalemated,” an assessment that we believe still holds true. To break this stalemate, we ask you to formulate a comprehensive military strategy against ISIS and bring to bear additional military means. In the near term, our principal strategic goal must be to shatter the ISIS narrative of invincibility, in order to stem this group’s ability to recruit or inspire additional jihadists, both those who would physically travel to Syria or Iraq to join ISIS and those who would remain outside its sanctuary and conduct attacks on their home nations or neighboring ones, including the United States. In order to effectively undermine the ISIS narrative, the coalition must inflict upon it highly visible territorial losses, starting with Iraq, including the recapture of Ramadi, Fallujah, and Mosul. To that end, we recommend that you pursue, at a minimum, several additional military options: U.S. military advisors. To bolster the Iraqi Security Forces, the Kurdish Peshmerga, and Sunni tribal forces, we should embed U.S. military advisors to serve alongside them in combat units down to the battalion level, including those on the front lines. We must work more closely with our local ground partners. Without effective ground forces, ISIS cannot be dislodged from the territory it now holds in Syria and Iraq. Joint Terminal Attack Controllers (JTACs). We should deploy and embed additional U.S. troops to serve as JTACs, embedded with our local ground partners, in order to make our airstrikes against ISIS more precise and more lethal. Close air support. We should deploy and utilize additional close air support platforms, including Apache attack helicopters, to provide more effective support to our ground partners who are in close contact with ISIS, in coordination with the embedded JTACs. Airstrike approval process. We should review the current approval process for coalition airstrikes, which we understand is unwieldy, and consider removing barriers that inhibit our pilots from attacking ISIS targets that are both timely and strategically significant. In addition, we ask you to consider two more far-reaching courses of action: Safe zones. We should establish one or more safe zones inside Syria, primarily for the protection of Syrian refugees. Creating and maintaining these so-called no-fly and no-drive zones would be a substantial military and humanitarian undertaking, but in so doing we would help safeguard innocent men, women, and children not just from Bashar al-Assad’s aircraft and barrel bombs, but also from ground attacks by Assad’s forces and ISIS. We would also help avert the mass exodus of Syrian refugees fleeing their own homeland for other countries in the region and in Europe. NATO role. In light of the continuing threat posed to multiple member-nations of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), we should consider pursuing a robust and central NATO role in combating ISIS, as recently proposed by former NATO Supreme Allied Commander, Admiral (Ret.) James Stavridis. Leading the planning, implementation, and command-and-control of a mission to establish safe zones in Syria may be an appropriate mission for NATO. This list of potential courses of action is not an exhaustive one, but we believe that pursuing even some of these would represent a needed boost in the fight against ISIS. Further, a number of these options or related ones have been proposed by two of your former Secretaries of Defense, Robert Gates and Leon Panetta, and we agree that they are worthy of serious consideration. A more robust U.S. military effort is also likely to attract greater contributions from both NATO allies and, more importantly, regional partners. We recognize that credible military action is necessarily only one element of any sound strategy to defeat ISIS. In addition, we know that the effort to dislodge ISIS from the territory it currently holds must be undergirded by a political framework that will sustain a lasting rejection of ISIS’s bankrupt ideology, which will itself require significant Sunni participation in Iraqi national governance. We also recognize that the threat of ISIS cannot be divorced from the overall conflict in Syria, which continues to rage, fueled further by Russian and Iranian interference. To safeguard our own national security, we must step up the military fight against ISIS as soon as possible, but it will require sustained, long-term American engagement to resolve the deeper problems that have allowed ISIS to incubate and gather strength in Syria and Iraq. Success will not come easily or cheaply, but we urge you as our commander-in-chief to do whatever it takes to defeat ISIS and keep the American citizenry safe from harm. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
12.03.2015	12.03.15 Gardner Ensures Highway Bill Reflects Colorado Priorities Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement today following his vote in favor of the Highway Bill passed by the Senate: “This Highway Bill is the result of hard work from members of both parties in the House and the Senate. It gives states and local communities five years of certainty in planning transportation projects, allowing them to save money through longer-term budgeting. I’m proud that I was able to secure several provisions in the Highway Bill that are especially relevant to Colorado and will help ensure that our priorities are a part of national transportation policy. Colorado is growing fast, and it’s absolutely critical that our infrastructure keeps up with that growth.” Among the provisions Senator Gardner secured in the Highway Bill were: Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (TIFIA) Improvements Three major Colorado road projects were under threat of not moving forward with construction as the result of changes that were initially considered to the TIFIA program as the bill was being drafted. Senator Gardner worked with members in both parties to make changes improving the program, and ensure that the three Colorado road projects would be able to use the program and move forward with construction. The Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT) has plans for the construction of three major projects: C470 Express Lanes, Interstate 70 East of Denver, and, critically, North Interstate 25 expansion. TIFIA could be used as a financing mechanism for construction of these projects. Population Growth Consideration The bill included the creation of a new grant program: the Nationally Significant Freight and Highway Projects (NSFHP) program. Senator Gardner included a change to the NSHFP program which would require the Department of Transportation to consider the impact of population growth when awarding the authorized grants. The language will assist Colorado, one of the fastest growing states in the nation, in getting funding to improve corridors that congested by rapid population growth, including Interstate 25 North of Denver. Surface Transportation Block Grant Program The bill converts the Surface Transportation Program (STP) into a new block grant program that will give more flexibility to localities to use transportation funds the way they see fit. During consideration of the House version of the bill, language was included that could have prohibited localities from using STP dollars for transit projects – most notably Denver Regional Transportation District. Senator Gardner pressed the highway bill conferees to include language that lets localities use these funds in a way that will best serve their community, giving more flexibility to Colorado communities to manage their infrastructure. Intelligent Transportation Systems The base text of the bill included language establishing a new grant program for the deployment of Intelligent Transportation Systems. Senator Gardner worked with CDOT to improve the program by focusing on vehicle-to-vehicle and vehicle-to-infrastructure technologies. CDOT would like to initiate a pilot program to test the feasibility of these technologies on both Interstate 70 and Interstate 25 to better manage traffic. Train Noise The bill includes language requested by Senator Gardner requiring the Government Accountability Office to study and report on the effectiveness of the 2006 Federal Railroad Administration’s rule on train horns are highway-grade crossings. An independent study could help find potential ways to improve the rule for communities impacted by train noise. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
12.03.2015	12.03.15 Gardner Votes To Repeal Obamacare Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement today after voting to repeal Obamacare in the United State Senate: “As I travel throughout Colorado, I continue to hear about Obamacare’s devastating impact. Whether it’s a family on the Western Slope who saw their premiums shoot through the roof, or a business owner in the San Luis Valley who would like to hire and expand but can’t afford to due to the law’s mandates, Coloradans are suffering from Obamacare’s broken promises. “The Obama Administration promised Americans that this law would bring down costs, expand choices, and allow them to keep the plans and doctors they liked. Instead, more than five years after the law passed, thousands in our state have faced huge premium increases, reductions in benefits, and the cancellation of their plans. “Obamacare added billions in government spending and raised taxes on millions of Americans, but we have precious little to show for it. Even the healthcare CO-OP established in Colorado by Obamacare has collapsed, taking millions in taxpayer loans with it and causing thousands to lose coverage. It’s time for a new approach, one that is patient-centered and focuses on reducing costs and increasing choices.” Coloradans have endured massive increases in health care costs. In October, the Denver Business Journal reported that individual health insurance costs are rising “steeply”, while KJCT8 in Grand Junction reported that rates for some people could increase by as much as 30%. The Durango Herald reported that the Western Slope was hit especially hard, with rates up by an average of 26% in the individual market. And Colorado Public Radio reported that 82% of business owners in Colorado cited health insurance rates as their top concern about benefits. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
12.03.2015	12.03.15 Gardner Highlights Obamacare’s Broken Promises “So it’s time to act. It’s time to take that path forward. It’s time to repeal Obamacare, which is simply one big broken promise after another.” Click here to view Senator Gardner’s Floor Speech Washington, DC – In a speech this week on the Senate floor, Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) laid out the broken promises of Obamacare and how the law is continuing to be a burden to Colorado families and businesses. When Obamacare was passed, Coloradans were made three major promises. First, that if they liked their plans, they could keep them. Second, that the new law would reduce healthcare costs for families, businesses, and government. And third, that Obamacare CO-OPs would create more competition in the marketplace. All three of these promises were broken. Coloradans have had to bear the consequences. A transcript of the Senator’s remarks is below: Mr. President, I come to the Senate floor today to talk about the broken promises of ObamaCare and the negative impacts that this poorly written law have had on my State of Colorado. While there have been many broken promises of ObamaCare, there have been three major broken promises that are the center of focus for hundreds of thousands of Coloradans. I want to start with broken promise No. 1. If you liked your plan, you can keep it. The President said over 35 times that Americans shouldn't worry about ObamaCare because if you liked your plan, then you could keep it. And it wasn't just the President; time after time, supporters of ObamaCare came to the floor of the House or the Senate or before townhalls in their States or districts and repeated those words: If you liked your plan, you can keep it. In fact, these words were used to justify the reason they supported ObamaCare in the first place. But Coloradans quickly learned that this promise was far from the truth. In late 2013, roughly 335,000 insurance policies in Colorado were canceled because of ObamaCare. These cancellations also affected my family health care plan. Unfortunately, the cancellations in 2013 were just the very beginning. In January of 2014, the Colorado Division of Insurance canceled an additional 249,000 plans because these plans didn't meet the requirements of ObamaCare. The President said: If you liked your plan, you can keep it. Supporters in Congress said: If you liked your plan, you can keep it. But what he meant was, as long as the government approves of your plan, then you can keep it. Again in 2015, an additional 190,000 plans were canceled. In total, according to the Congressional Research Service, over 750,000 health insurance perhaps plans in Colorado were canceled between 2013 and 2015. The fact-checking organization PolitiFact said this promise was ``impossible to keep'' and went on to deem President Obama's promise that if you like your health care plan, you can keep it the ``Lie of the Year'' for 2013. Supporters of ObamaCare will tell you that well it’s OK that this happened because these 750,000 individuals must have had inferior health insurance and that the government knows best. You see, that is the exact problem with government. That is the arrogance of government and the arrogance of ObamaCare--that people in the government, bureaucrats, others, believe they know better for the American consumers what the American consumer believes is best for themselves. They believe it’s OK to cancel 750,000 policies because they must have been bad, and so go ahead and cancel it. They will also say that it is all right because there are additional plans they can choose from. But that wasn't the promise of ObamaCare. Broken promise No. 1: If you like your health care plan, you can keep it. Broken promise No. 2: ObamaCare will reduce the costs for families, businesses, and our government. Remember, when ObamaCare was passed, they said the additional family would save $2,500 a year relatively soon after its passage. Unfortunately, Coloradans have felt that broken promise as well. It’s a broken promise that hit their pocketbooks and has broken the bank as well. Take for example, the Western Slope of Colorado, and I have a chart here. According to the Colorado Division of Insurance, individual insurance premiums for 2016 on the Western Slope of Colorado will rise by an additional average of 25.8 percent. There are people across America who are familiar with Colorado's Western Slope. These are our incredible mountain vistas, our forests, our national parks, our ski resorts. They received a 25.8-percent increase in their health care costs this year. That’s far from the promise of lowering the health care costs that ObamaCare was passed with. No one can afford these high prices. In fact, in 2013 one of my Democratic colleagues in the Colorado delegation even tried to exempt one of the wealthiest counties in Colorado from ObamaCare, citing that health insurance premiums would be too expensive. Let me say that again. A Member of the U.S. House of Representatives, a Democrat, tried to exempt portions of his district from ObamaCare because it was making his constituents pay too much for their insurance. Here’s the quote: We will be encouraging a waiver. It will be difficult for Summit County residents to become insured. For the vast majority, it's too high a price to pay. ObamaCare has simply made it more costly whether you are living on the Eastern Plains, Fort Collins, or the Western Slope. Plans are getting more expensive, and promises are being broken. Broken promise No. 3: President Obama promised greater competition in the marketplace through consumer-run co-ops. Yet over 80,000 Coloradans are feeling the impacts of this broken promise. To date, 12 out of 23 co-ops created by ObamaCare have been shut down across the United States, including the co-op in Colorado, which failed in October of this year. Nationwide, the failed co-ops were loaned over $1 billion, $1 billion which came from the hard-working taxpayers of this country. That was supposed to help get these co-ops off the ground, but now with these failures, that taxpayer money is at risk of never being paid back to the people of this country, and has put the ObamaCare allowed policies to be offered that were never actuarially sound because they assumed that there would be a government bailout, a bailout by the government to help make them actuarially sound. So banking on a bailout, they sold the American people a bill of goods. But today we have a path forward, a path forward that is turning away from the failed health care law that has been built on broken promises. The first step of this path forward is to repeal ObamaCare, and I urge my colleagues to support the repeal of ObamaCare that we will be voting on this week. Repealing ObamaCare will clear the way for a replacement plan, putting our country's health care on the right track. First, we have to restore the ability for individuals to choose for themselves what’s best instead of big government, what’s best for themselves. Coloradans don't want Dr. Congress. They want to keep the doctor they were promised they could keep in the first place. The best way to do this is to ensure that people get to keep the health plans that they want, and that is why I am working with Senator Ron Johnson from Wisconsin on his amendment that simply says that if you like your health care plan, you can keep it. In Colorado, I’ve heard from countless individuals who lost their plans, plans they liked and wanted to keep. They were certainly promised they could keep them, and just because ObamaCare can't fulfill the promise that it was sold under doesn't mean that we shouldn't do our jobs to make that promise a reality. The amendment that Senator Johnson and I have offered would allow individuals to continue receiving health coverage on plans that would otherwise be canceled because of ObamaCare. Second, we must ensure that taxpayer dollars are used responsibly. I filed an amendment that will help recover taxpayer money that was loaned to the failed co-ops. More than $1 billion in Federal loans were awarded to these failed co-ops. Congress has a duty to spend taxpayer dollars responsibly, and this amendment will ensure just that. Lastly, we must make sure that individuals have certainty in the health coverage they choose. My final amendment will make certain that co-ops can't rely on bailouts when they are calculating insurance premiums, setting false expectations for consumers. Several co-ops counted on these bailout provisions to keep premiums artificially low. Because these premiums were artificially low and since many co-ops were planning on receiving the bailout, many could no longer cover their expenses. Allowing co-ops to rely on a bailout was irresponsible and has resulted in nearly 700,000 individuals nationwide whose health coverage is now uncertain. So it’s time to act. It’s time to take that path forward. It’s time to repeal ObamaCare, which is simply one big broken promise after another. This path to repeal ObamaCare will allow us to replace ObamaCare with less health care regulation for businesses, individuals. And a path forward for individual freedoms and a more prosperous America. Mr. President, I yield back my time. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
12.03.2015	12.03.15 Gardner Urges Supreme Court to Allow Expanded School Choice Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today that he has submitted an amicus curiae brief to the United States Supreme Court in support of the Douglas County School District. The District is appealing a ruling by the Colorado Supreme Court that would prevent parents in Douglas County from sending their child to a religious school through the Choice Scholarship Program (CSP), which empowers parents to choose the right school for their kids. The CSP gives scholarships worth up to 75% of the state per-pupil revenue received by the district to eligible families wishing to enroll their child in a private school, thereby offering parents more choice while saving taxpayer money. The CSP is designed to assist students, and does not favor any particular kind of school so long as those schools meet specific standards. “Offering parents more control over where their children go to school is good for students, good for schools, and good for the State of Colorado,” Gardner said. “I’ve worked towards expanding school choice throughout my entire career in public service because it’s the right thing to do for kids, and I’m proud to stand with the Douglas County School District as it takes its case to the United States Supreme Court. “Parents deserve the choice to send their children to the school that’s best for them. I hope that my brief moves the Justices toward a decision that puts students first, allowing this innovative scholarship program to continue benefiting the students of Colorado and paving the way for more school choice nationwide.” You can read Senator Gardner’s full brief to the Supreme Court here. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
12.02.2015	12.02.15 Gardner Introduces Bill To Expand Access To Care, Telehealth Services Washington, DC – Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Gary Peters (D-MI) today introduced the Telehealth Innovation and Improvement Act, legislation that would expand access to health care in rural areas by paving the way for Medicare to cover additional telehealth services. Currently, Medicare covers limited telehealth services, setting a poor industry standard, discouraging innovation, and restricting access to specialized services. The Telehealth Innovation and Improvement Act requires the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to allow eligible hospitals to test telehealth services through the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation (CMI). Additionally, it directs CMI to review and independently evaluate telehealth models for cost, effectiveness, and improvement in quality of care without increasing the cost of delivery. If the telehealth model meets this criteria, then the model will be covered through the greater Medicare program. “People living in rural Colorado should have access to the same health care services as those living in urban areas,” said Senator Gardner. "Telemedicine has the power to increase access to specialized services in underserved communities, and potentially lower costs and improve patient outcomes. The Telehealth Innovation and Improvement Act would pave the way for Medicare to expand coverage to additional telehealth services, and potentially provide those living with life-threatening conditions in rural America with more opportunities and more options to receive the care they need. At the same time, this legislation would incentivize the industry to develop cutting edge technology that could revolutionize health care delivery. As we work toward a health care system that lowers costs and increases choices for consumers, it is important that we advance commonsense legislation like the Telehealth Innovation and Improvement Act to achieve those goals." “Telehealth has revolutionized healthcare, helping more patients receive life-saving treatment, and we must ensure that people living in rural areas have equal access to the care they need,” said Senator Peters. “I’m proud to join Senator Gardner in introducing this bipartisan, commonsense legislation that takes important steps to modernize Medicare, expand access to quality care for all seniors and improve patient outcomes.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
12.01.2015	12.01.15 Gardner Amendments Included in Conference Agreement to Strengthen Childhood Education Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today that the House-Senate conference committee reached an agreement on legislation to overhaul the No Child Left Behind Act, and included amendments he introduced to strengthen and improve childhood education. The conference committee, which was tasked with reaching a compromise between the Senate-passed Every Child Achieves Act and the House-passed Student Success Act, has referred its proposal to the House and the Senate to receive a vote before it is sent to President Obama to be signed into law. “I’m pleased the House-Senate conference committee reached an agreement swiftly and included provisions I authored that will not only benefit students in Colorado, but throughout the country,” said Gardner. “A bipartisan compromise, the legislation represents a significant step forward toward removing Congress from the classroom and updating federal education policy to refocus on students, the very people it was designed to help succeed. I look forward to this legislation moving through the legislative process, and I applaud the conference committee for producing an agreement that members from both sides of the aisle can support. It’s time we return responsibility to the states and empower those who know how to best ensure student’s thrive in the classroom: school districts, parents, teachers, and students." Language authored by Gardner and included in the House-Senate conference committee proposal include: - Expanding Concurrent and Dual Enrollment Amendment: Allows local educational agencies to use funds for concurrent enrollment and dual enrollment programs at eligible schools, enabling high school students to simultaneously receive college credit from courses taught by college-approved teachers in secondary education. Additionally, it requires a partnership between the school district and college or university to promote teacher professional development to ensure quality standards are being met and provides flexibility funds to cover expenses for concurrent enrollment including but not limited to tuition, mandatory fees, books, and required instructional material. The text of the amendment is available here. - Recognizing Charter Schools Amendment: Requires state educational agencies and local educational agencies to consult with public charter school representatives in the development of their Title I plan. Although charter schools are some of the highest performing schools in the country, they are not currently consulted during the development process while several other groups are consulted. The text of the amendment is available here. Additionally, Senator Gardner co-sponsored: - Data Transparency Amendment: Ensures that states provide academic assessment and graduation rate data in a way that can be easily cross-tabulated on their state report card sites for each subgroup of students, further disaggregated by race, gender, English proficiency, and disability. The ECAA already requires State Report Cards to include academic assessment and graduation rate data on subgroups, however oftentimes greater issues can be masked without further disaggregation. This amendment would give states the flexibility to decide to cross-tabulate additional subgroups of their choice, depending on the unique demographics of their state, to provide transparent information about where greater problems lie within a community where subgroups collide. The text of the amendment is available here. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
11.27.2015	11.27.15 Gardner Statement on Colorado Springs Tragedy Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the below statement following the tragic events in Colorado Springs today: "Jaime and I are deeply saddened by the events that unfolded in Colorado Springs earlier today. This senseless act of violence is truly tragic and our hearts are with the victims and their families during this difficult time. "The Colorado Springs Police Department, Colorado Springs Fire Department, El Paso County Sheriff's Office, State Patrol, and federal law enforcement agencies bravely responded to the initial call for help, and quickly worked to contain and stabilize the situation. Our first responders displayed tremendous bravery, and I am grateful for their service and ongoing sacrifice to keep our local community safe.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
11.26.2015	11.26.15 Gardner Marks Celebration of Thanksgiving Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement marking the celebration of Thanksgiving: “As Coloradans gather to celebrate Thanksgiving, we’re reminded that we have much to be grateful for. We live in the greatest state in the freest, most prosperous country that has ever existed. We are a nation founded upon the first principles of opportunity, liberty, and freedom; a nation built upon the chance to succeed. “Still, these are hard times for many. An uneven economic recovery has left too many unemployed or underemployed, struggling to pay bills and save for the future. I’m grateful for the millions of Americans who devote their time and energy to helping the less fortunate and lifting up their fellow citizens in a time of need.” “As we in this country sit down to dinner with loved ones, it’s also important to remember the men and women of the United States military. Many of them are spending this holiday far from home, without the company of friends and relatives. The Americans who serve in our armed forces sacrifice so much for our country, all to ensure that we are kept safe and free. To all who serve, and have served our nation, we give our eternal thanks.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
11.20.2015	11.20.15 Gardner Urges Funding for PILT Program Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), along with a bipartisan group of over thirty Senators, sent a letter today to Senate leadership urging them to ensure that full funding to the Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) program, along with responsible budget offsets, is included in legislation passing the House and Senate before the end of the year. The PILT program is an important resource for counties across the country to provide essential services to their citizens. PILT provides funding to counties which contain federal land within their borders, offsetting the lost property tax revenue that comes from the non-taxable federal land located within the counties. The letter, addressed to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) and Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid (D-NV), reads in full: Dear Majority Leader McConnell and Minority Leader Reid, As Members of Congress representing counties containing federal public lands within their boundaries, we write to request that Congress include full funding for the Payments in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) program for FY16 along with responsible budget offsets in any legislation likely to pass the House and Senate and be signed into law before the end of the year. PILT provides critical resources to nearly 1,900 counties across 49 states to offset lost property tax revenue due to the presence of tax-exempt federal lands within their jurisdictions. Without full funding for the PILT program before the end of the year, counties across the nation will be unable to provide essential services such as education, law enforcement, search and rescue, road maintenance and public health to residents and millions of federal lands visitors alike. Moving forward we hope Congress can work together to enact a fiscally responsible long-term sustainable solution to fully fund this important program and eliminate the ongoing funding uncertainty PILT counties face. However, as the end of the year approaches, enacting full-funding for PILT in FY 2016 is essential in order to provide counties with the certainty they need to plan their own budgets and continue providing essential county services. We look forward to working with you to resolve this pressing issue facing our communities in FY16 and in the coming years. ###
11.19.2015	11.19.15 Gardner, Peters Introduce Legislation to Encourage Rural Investment Washington, DC – Today, Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) joined with Senator Gary Peters (D-MI) to introduce the Philanthropic Facilitation Act (PFA). This legislation reforms the approval process for charitable investments so philanthropic organizations can more easily invest in community improvement and job creation, boosting economic growth in both rural and urban areas. Current law stipulates that private foundations must make a certain amount of charitable distributions in order to keep their tax-preferred status. Commonly, those distributions come in the form of grants to not-for-profit organizations. Program-Related Investments (PRIs), which are investments in for-profit companies undertaking a charitable activity, can also count towards a private foundation’s annual charitable distributions, but are often ignored due to a confusing certification process. This legislation introduced by Gardner and Peters streamlines the process for Internal Revenue Service (IRS) rulings on whether a loan or an investment by a philanthropic organization can be considered a PRI, and therefore count towards yearly charitable distributions. This legislation makes it easier for organizations to invest in a given entity by simplifying the process and forcing the IRS to make a decision within 120 days. “Encouraging investment in both rural and urban settings is vital to growing our economy and creating jobs. The Philanthropic Facilitation Act benefits rural economies in particular by cutting red tape and removing barriers between philanthropists and small businesses, ultimately leading to more job creation,” said Gardner. "Private charities are more than willing to invest in and grow the economy but are too often deterred by government bureaucracy. Simply put, it’s often too hard for philanthropists to identify qualified recipients for their charitable dollars. This legislation is a common-sense solution that gets government out of the way and encourages more investment where it’s needed most." “Charitable foundations are playing a significant role in the economic recovery of cities across Michigan by branching out into investment in economic development,” said Peters. “This legislation will encourage philanthropic investments in our hardest hit urban and rural areas across the country to help organizations grow, create new jobs and continue giving back to our communities. I’m honored to work with Senator Gardner on this commonsense measure to help streamline the process for charitable foundations so they can expand the ways they serve our communities.” ###
11.19.2015	11.19.15 Gardner Priorities Advanced By Energy Committee Gardner Votes to Make Land and Water Conservation Fund Permanent Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today that the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee advanced several of his legislative priorities today as part of a productive markup. “I’m proud that the Energy Committee is putting in the hard work to move legislation forward that protects precious public lands,” Gardner said. “Many of the pieces of legislation advanced today will have lasting impacts in Colorado and our outdoor recreational economy, ensuring that generations to come have access to the same natural beauty that Coloradans have enjoyed going back to the founding of our state. Conserving and protecting the public lands Coloradans cherish is a bipartisan priority, and one that I will continue to fight for.” Legislation advanced today included permanent reauthorization of the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF), which Senator Gardner has long supported. Gardner voted in favor of an amendment in January which would have made the LWCF’s authorization permanent, and has continued to advocate for the LWCF as a critical source of funding for protecting America and Colorado’s natural treasures. The Committee advanced several public lands measures specific to Colorado. The Wedge Act, supported by Senator Gardner, Senator Bennet (D-CO), Congressman Polis (D-CO), and Congressman Tipton (R-CO), would aid the U.S. Forest Service in acquiring several parcels of land adjacent to Rocky Mountain National Park. This Act would help preserve critical wildlife habitat, Colorado River headwaters, and a highly visible viewshed in the area commonly referred to as the Wedge. Another Colorado measure, also co-sponsored by Senator Bennet, advanced was a federal land exchange where the Forest Service would acquire pristine land in the Pike National Forest allowing for more outdoor recreation near Pikes Peak. Additionally, the Committee voted in favor of the Bipartisan Sportsmen’s Act, a major package of outdoors legislation which contains multiple provisions advocated by Senator Gardner. The Sportsmen’s Act included permanent reauthorization of the Federal Land Transaction Facilitation Act (FLTFA), a piece of conservation legislation which authorizes the federal government to sell less desirable or extraneous parcels of federal land to fund the acquisition of more desirable or pristine lands. Before its expiration, FLTFA has been used to preserve land in the Canyons of the Ancients National Monument and White River National Forest. Finally, the Sportsmen’s Act includes Gardner’s language promoting transparency in the Judgement Fund, which contains the money paid out by the federal government for some lawsuits. Current law provides for very little transparency in the Judgement Fund, giving the public almost no insight into the millions of dollars paid out for claims against the federal government, including groups which routinely file lawsuits against the government and receive taxpayer settlements. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
11.18.2015	11.18.15 Gardner Presses for the Reauthorization of the Land and Water Conservation Fund Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), a member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, announced today he has sent a letter, along with Senator Michael Bennet (D-CO) and Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), urging Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) and Minority Leader Harry Reid (D-NV) to permanently reauthorize the Land and Water Conservation Fund (“LWCF”), which expired at the end of September. The LWCF provides funding for conservation and helps ensure public access to the outdoors. Senator Gardner voted to make the LWCF’s authorization permanent in January, but that vote fell one vote shy of passage. The Senator also voted to make LWCF authorization permanent in the bipartisan energy bill that passed through the Energy and Natural Resources Committee by a vote of 18-4. The letter reads, in full: Dear Majority Leader McConnell and Minority Leader Reid: We write to request that you permanently re-authorize the Land and Water Conservation Fund (“LWCF”) and provide it with full mandatory funding in one of the bills that Congress must pass before the end of the session. As you know, this critical initiative has been expired since the end of September. The LWCF is one of the country’s best conservation programs, preserving public lands in rural and urban areas. For the last 50 years, it has protected lands, historic sites, national parks, wilderness areas, and urban parks in every state. LWCF has supported more than 41,000 state and local projects. It is critical to protecting natural resource lands and working forests, providing outdoor recreation opportunities and hunting and fishing access, ensuring wildlife habitat, creating urban parks, and protecting our cultural heritage. Continued investments in this program help our nation’s outdoor recreation, conservation, and preservation economy, which supports millions of American jobs and contributes billions of dollars annually to the economy. The LWCF is funded with offshore oil royalties and was designed not to use taxpayer dollars. However, since the creation of LWCF in 1965, more than $18 billion has been taken from the LWCF trust fund and diverted from its original conservation purpose. Because authorization for the LWCF expired on September 30th, offshore oil royalties are no longer being directed into the fund and there is no longer any guarantee that Congress will provide it the necessary funds. For the economy, sportsmen, veterans, wildlife, and our kids and grandkids, we must permanently reauthorize LWCF -- America’s must successful conservation program. We also strongly request that you include mandatory full funding in any must-pass year end legislation. We look forward to working with you to resolve this pressing issue. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
11.17.2015	11.17.15 Lynch to Congress: Current Law Blocks Administration From Transferring Guantanamo Detainees to Colorado Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today issued the below statement following Attorney General Loretta Lynch’s statement before the House Judiciary Committee that existing law does not permit the Obama Administration to transfer Guantanamo Bay detainees to the United States: “Current law prevents the Obama Administration from using funds to transfer, release, or assist in the transfer of Guantanamo Bay detainees to the United States, and I’m pleased that Attorney General Loretta Lynch publicly recognized that before Congress today,” said Gardner. “While I have yet to receive a response from the Administration about the legal basis for its assistance in the transfer of enemy combatants to Colorado, I am comforted that the top law official in the land has pledged that the Department of Justice will respect the laws as passed by Congress and work to ensure that the Administration acts in accordance with the law if it moves forward with the closure of Guantanamo Bay.” Gardner has repeatedly urged the Obama Administration to abandon its reported plan to bring Guantanamo detainees to Colorado. In October, Gardner sent a letter to President Obama asking about the Administration’s legal basis for the transfer of Guantanamo detainees to the U.S. This past week, more than 40 elected Colorado county sheriffs sent a letter to President Obama expressing their “strong opposition” to the potential transfer of detainees to Colorado. Neither Gardner nor the sheriffs have received a response from the Administration. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
11.13.2015	11.13.15 Gardner Statement on Paris Attacks Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released a statement on the events unfolding in Paris: “The people of Colorado and the United States stand firmly beside our oldest ally, France. We mourn those lost and pray for their families. And we are united with all Parisians as they unite against this senseless violence.” U.S citizens in Paris needing assistance call 011-202-501-4444. Those in US concerned about loved ones in Paris, call 1-888-407-4747. Please monitor travel.state.gov over the evening for more information as it becomes available.
11.13.2015	11.13.15 Gardner, Enzi Letter Seeks Answers from EPA on Gold King Mine Spill Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today that he and Senator Mike Enzi (R-WY), chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, have sent a letter to Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Gina McCarthy in reaction to the Department of the Interior (DOI) report on the Gold King Mine spill. The report indicates that the EPA failed to take steps that could have prevented the disaster from occurring. The letter asks Administrator McCarthy fifteen questions related to the report and the EPA’s plan to hold those responsible for the spill accountable and prevent future disasters from occurring. The letter reads, in full: Dear Administrator McCarthy: We write today to express concern regarding conclusions reached in the Department of Interior’s (DOI) report on the Gold King Mine spill released on October 22, 2015. The report concludes that had the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) used a drill rig to bore into Gold King Mine from above to determine the level of the mine pool, there would have been a revised plan to open the mine, and the blowout would not have taken place. DOI’s report also shows that little engineering analysis or consideration was completed at the Gold King Mine. In this context, we respectfully seek answers to the following: 1. Would you provide a full accounting of individuals who worked on the mine, their level of professional expertise, and if they were under the supervision of a licensed professional engineer? 2. What are EPA’s policies and practices for engineering projects? 3. Would you provide an account for all work conducted at the mine that was not performed by a licensed professional engineer? 4. Based on the above answers, is this consistent with what would be required of a private company conducting similar work? Several months have passed since the initial surge of contaminated water at Gold King Mine on August 5, 2015. To our knowledge, there has not been a reporting of claims paid to affected individuals. 5. Would you clarify if EPA has paid claims related to the spill? 6. If so, what percentage of total claims at this point have been paid? 7. Does the agency intend to compensate for the damages within existing agency funding? 8. Has EPA or does EPA intend to terminate the employment of those responsible for the spill? 9. If EPA has not terminated employment, how does EPA intend to hold those individuals accountable? The report states that EPA’s actions at the Gold King Mine caused the blowout. This conclusion refutes the assertion in EPA’s internal review of the spill which states that the blowout was inevitable. 10. Would you explain this discrepancy? 11. Is EPA currently performing similar work on other mines, and, if so, would you provide a list of these sites? 12. If work is being performed at other sites, is EPA changing its actions at these sites to accommodate the findings in DOI’s report? 13. Are professional engineers supervising these sites? 14. What steps is EPA taking to respond to the DOI report? 15. Is EPA conducting any further investigation or review of the cause or response to the spill outside of the Office of Inspector General’s report? Thank you for your time and attention to this issue. We look forward to your responses. A signed copy of the letter can be viewed here. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
11.13.2015	11.13.15 Gardner: Obamacare Continues to Drive Up Costs, Harming Colorado's Economy and Restricting Choice Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released a statement today following new reports of rising healthcare costs for Colorado citizens and businesses: "Within just the past few weeks, Coloradans have seen and endured some of the worst consequences of Obamacare. Premiums are continuing to increase. The CO-OP established by the law, which was supposed to provide low-cost care, has collapsed, taking thousands of healthcare plans and tens of millions in taxpayer loans with it. And today, there are new reports of rising costs for Colorado businesses which are being passed directly on to employees and consumers. "This chaos and these rising costs are exactly what the people of Colorado were promised Obamacare would prevent. The myth of Obamacare's cost controls has been dispelled. The myth of Obamacare increasing choices has been dispelled. This misguided law is a weight around the neck of our nation's economy, and it's doing little to make us healthier. I’ve heard from thousands of Coloradans who are tired of the broken promises. It's time for a new approach." ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
11.12.2015	11.12.15 Gardner Statement on Unanimous Passage of U.S. Commercial Space Launch Competitiveness Act Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released a statement today following the Senate’s passage, by unanimous consent, of the conferenced language to the U.S. Commercial Space Launch Competitiveness Act. The Act, introduced by Senator Ted Cruz (R-TX), has a bipartisan group of co-sponsors including Senator Gardner, Senator Bill Nelson (D-FL), Senator Marco Rubio (R-FL), Senator Gary Peters, (D-MI), and Senator Patty Murray (D-WA). The Act would enhance existing efforts to develop the commercial space industry by protecting it from onerous federal regulation, and it establishes clearer ground rules for property rights beyond Earth. The Act also extends the operation of the International Space Station (ISS) through 2024, giving the ISS and NASA an extended amount of mission certainty. Additionally, the Act contains language Senator Gardner pressed for which would help Congress more closely monitor the application process for new remote sensing equipment, technology often used by satellites to monitor and classify objects and patterns on the ground. “The Commercial Space Launch Competitiveness Act is a significant step forward in encouraging the continued growth of the commercial space sector,” Gardner said. “Aerospace plays a major role in Colorado’s economy, sustaining thousands of jobs and ensuring that our state is on the cutting edge of technological development. “By providing commonsense ground rules for the commercial development of space and by protecting this growing sector from burdensome federal regulation, this Act ensures that the commercial space sector will be able to thrive in Colorado. I’m proud of the unanimous support this bill received in the Senate, and I look forward to its passage by the House.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
11.12.2015	11.12.15 Gardner Commends Medal of Honor Recipient Captain Florent Groberg Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released a statement today following the awarding of the Medal of Honor to Captain Florent Groberg, a retired 4th Infantry Division solider based out of Fort Carson: “To say that Captain Groberg displayed bravery and selflessness on the battlefield is to drastically understate his actions. The courage he showed in physically wrestling a suicide bomber to the ground to protect civilians and his fellow soldiers should serve as an inspiration to all Americans. In Captain Groberg, we have all received a reminder of the true character of the men and women who serve our country in uniform. “I join all Coloradans in commending Captain Groberg for his heroism and congratulating him on this richly-deserved honor. I am humbled by his willingness to lay down his life for our country and I am truly grateful for his service.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
11.11.2015	11.11.15 Gardner Statement On Veterans Day Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released a statement today in honor of Veterans Day: “Today, we honor all of those who have sacrificed so much to defend the freedoms that make this country great. We are forever indebted to those who answered the call to serve; it is because of their commitment that we can continue to live in a nation with unlimited opportunities. A nation founded in liberty and rooted in principles that provoke hope and optimism. "Our men and women in uniform represent the best this country has to offer, and it is our responsibility to take care of those who have taken care of us. I’ll continue to work to ensure that veterans have access to the care they deserve, and I’m committed to fighting for a VA that is accountable to the people it was created to serve. I’m grateful for all of those who protect our country and the values that make it unique, and I urge Coloradans and Americans around the country to join me in expressing gratitude for their enormous sacrifices.” ###
11.10.2015	11.10.15 Gardner Commends Passage of NDAA Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released a statement today following the Senate's passage, by an overwhelming bipartisan majority, of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA): "I'm proud to have joined with a large majority of my colleagues in both the House and the Senate to pass the NDAA. Members of both parties came together to support this legislation, which gives our troops the resources they need to keep us safe and stay on the offensive against threats to our national security. The men and women in uniform who go to work every single day to keep us safe deserve to know that leaders in Congress have their backs, and today’s passage of the NDAA is a step in that direction. "This NDAA also contains provisions barring the transfer of Guantanamo detainees to the United States, and it continues to bar taxpayer dollars from being used to assist in any such transfer. These provisions send a clear message to the Administration that any plan to move Guantanamo detainees to this country is unacceptable. This is not the first time that the American people, through their representatives in Congress, have sent this message. It’s time for the President to listen.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
11.10.2015	11.10.15 Colorado Sheriffs to President Obama: “Dangerously Naïve” to Bring GTMO to Colorado Washington, DC — More than 40 elected Colorado County sheriffs have sent a letter to President Obama expressing their “strong opposition” to President Obama’s potential illegal transfer of Guantanamo Bay terrorists to Colorado. News reports indicate that in addition to the Federal Correctional Complex in Florence, the Obama Administration has been strongly considering sending the Guantanamo terrorists to the Centennial Correctional Facility in Fremont County. Fremont County Sheriff James Beicker is the lead signatory of the letter to President Obama. The letter reads in part: We, the undersigned Sheriffs from the State of Colorado, write in strong opposition to your proposed actions to transfer dangerous foreign enemy combatants held at the Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, military detention facility to civilian prisons in our state. As the top law enforcement officials in our counties, elected by our citizens and charged with maintaining public safety and security in our respective counties, we are concerned that utilizing current civilian prisons in our state would significantly – and unnecessarily – endanger our citizens. The prisons being reviewed are all high security prisons, indicating that officials responsible for the detainment of these individuals believe that the prisoners represent a significant security threat to the citizens of our state. We do not question the ability of Bureau of Prisons to detain these prisoners, but we recognize that there is a more significant public safety concern – the danger posed by sympathizers who would mount an attack on these facilities or commit other acts of terror in our state to draw further attention to their causes… …The locations that the Department of Defense recently scouted for proposed transfer of these detainees are in close proximity to densely-populated areas of Pueblo and Colorado Springs. Colorado Springs is home to the U.S. Air Force Academy, Peterson Air Force Base, Buckley Air Force Base, and Fort Carson. Pueblo is home to the U.S. Army's Chemical Weapons Depot. Further adding to our statewide concern is the reality that any detainees housed in our state will likely be accessing the federal court system. That will require transporting them to the federal district courts or federal court of appeals, located in Denver. The transportation of these detainees from Freemont County to the Denver metropolitan area will cross many counties and will create many safety and security threats to our communities that must be addressed by Colorado sheriffs. Note: Click HERE to read the letter in its entirety. ###
11.06.2015	11.06.15 Gardner: "President Obama has put the demands of radical political groups over American jobs" Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released a statement today following President Obama’s decision to block the construction of the Keystone XL pipeline: “President Obama has put the demands of radical political groups over American jobs. Construction of the Keystone pipeline would have created jobs, reduced America’s dependence on overseas oil, and helped further the North American energy revolution that has created so much prosperity in our country. The President’s decision to reject this pipeline comes despite overwhelming and bipartisan support for the project in both the House and the Senate. “Earlier this year, the Senate made authorization of the Keystone Pipeline our first major legislative initiative of the new Congress. I was proud to support that effort, and proud of the large bipartisan majority of 62 Senators who voted to authorize construction of the pipeline. The President’s decision today has nothing to do with the environment, and everything to do with politics. It is my hope that a future president, acting in accord with the wishes of the United States Congress and the American people, will reverse this misguided choice.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy.
11.06.2015	11.06.15 Gardner Introduces PURSE Act to Bar IRS Unionization Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today that he has introduced the Preventing Unionization of Revenue Service Employees Act, or PURSE Act, in the United States Senate. The PURSE Act would exclude employees of the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) from the Federal Service Labor-Management Relations Statute, which provides most federal employees the ability to unionize and enter into collective bargaining agreements. “There is no reason to allow IRS employees to unionize and collectively bargain against the very citizens whose taxes they collect,” Gardner said. “In light of the scandal created by the IRS’s targeting of political opponents, we must ensure that IRS employees function without bias or political influence. “The PURSE Act would ensure that the sole focus of the IRS is the fair and impartial implementation of the tax code, and it would help restore the trust of the American people in the federal employees whose job it is to collect their taxes. The American people deserve to know that their tax collectors have no ulterior motives.” The full text of the PURSE Act is available here. ###
11.05.2015	11.05.15 Gardner on Guantanamo Transfer Plan: “What basis in law does [the President] believe he has?” Washington, DC – At a press conference in the Capitol today, Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) spoke out about President Obama’s reckless, illegal plan to bring terrorists from the Guantanamo Bay Detention Facility to the United States. In his remarks, Senator Gardner challenged the Administration to provide answers to a letter he wrote last month demanding to know why the Administration is ignoring existing law barring any taxpayer money going towards assisting in the transfer of these detainees. Click here to watch Senator Gardner’s Statement Gardner’s remarks, in full, read: I will not sit idly by while the President uses political promises to imperil the people of Colorado by moving enemy combatants from Cuba, Guantanamo Bay, to my state of Colorado. Look, the law is very clear. The law states no money shall be made available, shall be used, can be designated for the assistance of the transfer of Guantanamo Bay detainees. Several weeks ago, several weeks ago I was asked on a Thursday by an Associated Press reporter, are you hearing anything about a team from the Pentagon that is going to Colorado to look at a closed state prison for the transfer of these detainees? The next day we found out in the New York Times that that is indeed exactly what had happened. Despite the law making it very clear that money shall not be made available to assist in the transfer of a Guantanamo Bay detainee, that money was made available, a team was sent, that money was expended, in violation of the law. We sent a letter to the President asking what basis in law does he believe he has to violate the law. And as usual, we have yet to receive a response. Now let me make this clear, there has been a lot of talk about the prison facility that they are looking at in Colorado. The prison that they looked at is a closed state prison that would take millions upon millions upon millions of dollars to retrofit. Is that part of the plan they have in place despite the law that says you cannot spend money to assist in the transfer? These are questions that have to be answered. These are questions the President doesn’t want to answer because if he did the President would know that he is violating the law that was passed by a bipartisan group of Senators with an overwhelming majority. We have an obligation to stand up for the rule of law and the President has an obligation to drop campaign promises that imperil the people of this country. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
11.04.2015	11.04.15 Gardner Demands Answers on Obama Administration’s Secret Plan To Move Terrorists to United States Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released a statement following new reports today that the Obama Administration has developed a plan to move terrorists from the Guantanamo Bay detention facility in violation of federal law prohibiting the transfer, release, or assisting in the transfer or release of those prisoners: “President Obama apparently has a secret plan to move dangerous terrorists from Guantanamo to American soil,” Gardner said. “He has thus far not shared that plan with the American people, instead choosing to employ anonymous leaks to White House correspondents. I wrote a letter last month asking the President about these efforts, and specifically why he was choosing to develop plans which fly in the face of the restrictions on Guantanamo transfers passed by Congress and which the President himself signed into law. “I have received no answers from the Administration to my questions, despite the fact that numerous facilities in Colorado are apparently being considered for these transfers. If the President is determined to move terrorists to our state, Coloradans should know why and how he plans to do it. We’re waiting.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
11.04.2015	11.04.15 Gardner Joins Denunciation of Palestinian Terror Attacks Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today that he has signed on as a co-sponsor of a Senate resolution expressing solidarity with the state of Israel in the face of a recent surge in attacks on Israeli citizens and soldiers by Palestinian terrorists. The resolution condemns the recent terrorist attacks and calls on Palestinian officials to work against the incitement of violence against Israelis. “Israel and its citizens face continuous threats to their safety and security,” Gardner said. “Between attacks on innocent civilians, assaults on Israeli soldiers, and a newly-wealthy Iranian regime bent on wiping their country off the map, it is clear that Israel needs our backing now more than ever. I’m proud to support this resolution and will continue doing everything I can in the United States Senate to help our friends and allies in Israel.” More information about the resolution is available here. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
11.03.2015	11.03.15 Gardner Statement on Blockage of Senate WOTUS Bill Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released a statement today after the Federal Water Quality Protection Act, introduced by Senator Barrasso (R-WY), failed to reach the 60 votes required to advance in the Senate. The Act would have required the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and Army Corps of Engineers to re-write the so-called Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rule issued by the EPA. The rewritten rule would feature much stronger state and agricultural protections as well as more input from local communities. “It’s disappointing that, once again, a minority in the Senate has blocked a bipartisan measure designed to reduce the growth of the federal government and allow Coloradans more control over their lives and land,” Gardner said. “The WOTUS rule is a classic example of federal overreach, giving the EPA authority to regulate ponds, ditches, and tiny streams across Colorado and the West. “Coloradans know when they’re getting soaked. This rule is so poorly written and ill-conceived that multiple federal judges have put halts on its implementation. I will continue to pursue legislative efforts to ensure this rule is not put into place and Coloradans’ right to control our water is preserved.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
11.03.2015	11.03.15 Gardner Announces Judicial Evaluation Committee Recommendations Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today that his Judicial Evaluation Committee, which was announced in August and is comprised of eleven legal experts, has unanimously recommended four highly qualified legal professionals as potential nominees to fill the vacancy on the U.S. District Court of Colorado created by Judge Robert Blackburn’s move to senior status. The committee reviewed a large number of applications and interviewed twelve finalists. Of those twelve, the committee recommended Magistrate Judge Kristen Louise Mix, Patrick O’Rourke, Regina Marie Rodriguez, and Samuel David Walker. “I appreciate the hard work done by the Judicial Evaluation Committee,” Gardner said. “They devoted countless hours to carefully reviewing applicants and interviewing finalists in order to ensure that Colorado has the most qualified legal mind possible on the federal bench. I look forward to reviewing their recommendations and making progress towards filling this vacancy.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
10.30.2015	10.30.15 Gardner Reacts to VA Hospital Announcement Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement today following reports that the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) and the Army Corps of Engineers have awarded a contract with Kiewit Turner to complete construction on the new VA hospital in Aurora: “Veterans in Colorado and across the West have waited too long for the facility they were promised. They have endured delay after delay and been dispirited by the VA’s mismanagement and cost overruns,” said Gardner. "The final spending authorization that Congress passed in September coupled with the VA’s and the Corps’ signed contract paves the way to finish the state-of-the-art facility veterans deserve. I join Colorado veterans in awaiting the project’s completion, and I’ll continue to fight for transparency and accountability from the VA." Senator Gardner has been an advocate for the completion of the VA Hospital in Aurora. In his first month in office, he teamed up with fellow members of the Colorado delegation to introduce the Aurora VA Hospital Financing and Construction Reform Act of 2015. Many of the reforms in that Act were later incorporated into bills funding the Aurora hospital. Senator Gardner has continued to press for accountability at the VA, demanding that those responsible for delays and cost overruns be held accountable. He was instrumental in pressing for the Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs to hold a field hearing in Colorado in April. In May, Senator Gardner helped secure a temporary round of funding needed to continue construction. And in September, Gardner was instrumental in the passage through both the House and the Senate of the last round of funding necessary to complete construction. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
10.30.2015	10.30.15 Gardner Statement on Bipartisan Budget Act Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the below statement after voting against the House of Representatives’ amendment to the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015. “As I travel around Colorado, I consistently hear my constituents express frustration with Washington’s reckless regard for the mounting debt that we’re passing on to our children and grandchildren,” said Gardner. "While I recognize the importance of preserving the full faith and credit of the United States, I could not in good conscience support the Bipartisan Budget Act as it does not include enough reforms to control long-term spending. At a time when our national debt is $18 trillion and growing, it’s more important now than ever that Congress acts responsibly and makes the tough but necessary choices to rein in this Administration’s spending spree. Our spending-driven debt crisis threatens the very future of this country, and it’s far past time that Congress acts to address it and return us to a path of fiscal prosperity.” Earlier this week, Gardner and Sen. Mike Lee (R-UT) introduced the Reducing Excessive Government (REG) Act as an amendment to the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015. The REG Act would require any increase in the debt limit approved by Congress and the President be accompanied by a dollar-for-dollar decrease in regulatory burden for every new dollar of debt. If the debt limit were to be raised by a set amount rather than suspended, the dollar-for-dollar reductions in the REG Act would apply to that set amount. It directs federal agencies to provide Congress with a report, certified by the Government Accountability Office, of regulations with a cost to the United States’ economy of over $100 million. Congress would be required to vote on the removal of an amount of regulatory burden equal to the amount of new debt, and the President would then sign that removal legislation into law. If Congress fails to pass the removal of regulatory burden or the President fails to sign it, the debt limit would snap back to current levels plus any debt acquired since passage of legislation to increase or suspend the debt limit. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
10.29.2015	10.29.15 Gardner-Lee Amendment Requires Regulatory Rollback Alongside Debt Increase Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Senator Mike Lee (R-UT) announced today that they are introducing, as an amendment to the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, the Reducing Excessive Government (REG) Act, which would require that any increase in the debt limit approved by Congress and the President be accompanied by a dollar-for-dollar decrease in regulatory burden for every new dollar of debt. “Excessive regulation is a heavy weight on our economy, slowing down growth, decreasing productivity, and costing jobs,” Gardner said. “By rolling back burdensome regulations that restrict growth and strangle the American economy, the REG Act would provide much-needed relief – paving the way for American businesses to grow, innovate, and create jobs.” “Since joining the Senate I have consistently opposed raising the debt limit unless it included structural spending reforms,” Lee said. "While this proposal wouldn’t cut government spending, it would save the American people trillions in regulatory compliance. Furthermore, this amendment would not preclude us from seeking other structural reforms the next time the debt limit needs to be raised. This regulatory repeal process would be just another tool for protecting the freedoms of the American people and future generations of Americans.” In the event of a temporary suspension of the debt limit, the REG Act would require the Secretary of the Treasury to submit an estimate to Congress for the amount of new debt which would be incurred during that suspension. If the debt limit were to be raised by a set amount rather than suspended, the dollar-for-dollar reductions in the REG Act would apply to that set amount. Federal agencies would provide Congress with a report, certified by the Government Accountability Office, of regulations with a cost to the United States’ economy of over $100 million. Congress would be required to vote on the removal of an amount of regulatory burden equal to the amount of new debt. The President would then sign that removal legislation into law. If Congress fails to pass the removal of regulatory burden or the President fails to sign it, the debt limit would snap back to current levels plus any debt acquired since passage of legislation to increase or suspend the debt limit. ###
10.29.2015	10.29.15 Gardner, Shaheen Lead Effort to Require Federal Government to Measure Impact of Outdoor Recreation on U.S. Economy **Legislation would require the Bureau of Economic Analysis to provide the first publicly available data on outdoor recreation economy** (Washington, DC) – Today, U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH) introduced the Outdoor REC (Recreation’s Economic Contributions) Act, bipartisan legislation that would inform policy makers and business leaders on the jobs created, and the consumer spending driven by, the outdoor recreation economy. Currently, the federal government, through research conducted at the Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA), doesn’t measure the economic impact of outdoor recreation, despite independent estimates that this sector generates $646 billion in consumer spending each year and supports 6.1 million jobs. “Outdoor recreation in Colorado is a pillar of our local communities, our Western heritage, and attracts people from all over the world to our state,” said Gardner. “Colorado's great outdoors has contributed significantly to state and local economies across the country, and the Outdoor REC Act recognizes that. This bill would allow lawmakers to make informed policy decisions to further enhance the industry by understanding the impact recreation has on our economy, and I look forward to working to ensure this commonsense bill moves through the legislative process. Congress could use a little fresh air, and this bill shows the value of it." “The outdoor recreation sector is a critical sector of our economy – and it’s time we start counting it,” Shaheen said. “In New Hampshire, we know that preserving our natural treasures isn’t just good for the environment; it’s also a smart move for our economy. Our bipartisan legislation will help us better understand how outdoor recreation supports jobs and economic growth.” “Outdoor Industry Association appreciates the work of Senators Shaheen and Gardner to better understand the significant impact of the outdoor recreation industry on the U.S. economy by introducing the Recreation’s Economic Contributions (REC) Act” said Amy Roberts, executive director of Outdoor Industry Association (OIA). “We know through our own research of the outdoor recreation economy and the millions of associated jobs here in the United States that the outdoor industry is major economic driver. It will be extremely important and helpful, however, for the federal government to quantify the economic importance of our industry and use that data to inform the decisions that affect our businesses and the 142 million Americans who recreate outside each year.” The outdoor recreation economy is not measured independently by BEA despite being a larger contributor to the economy than the oil, natural gas and mining sectors combined. The BEA currently reports on a number of sectors that are smaller than the outdoor recreation economy, and the Outdoor REC Act would fill this gap by requiring BEA to account for the impact of this multi-billion dollar industry in their publicly available reports. Text of the legislation can be found here. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
10.26.2015	10.26.15 Gardner Announces $15 Million Grant for Southwest Chief Rehabilitation Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today that the Department of Transportation has awarded a $15.2 million grant to the City of La Junta to add approximately 39 miles of new railway and rehabilitate an additional 20 miles of rail along the Southwest Chief Amtrak line. Gardner, along with Senator Michael Bennet (D-CO), had previously written a letter to the Secretary of Transportation advocating for the grant. “The grant announced today will allow for critical maintenance and upgrades to the Southwest Chief line to move forward,” Gardner said. "This line is deeply important to the economies of many communities in southeast Colorado, and keeping it well-run and well-maintained will help ensure that those communities continue to benefit from the Southwest Chief’s operation. I’m pleased that the Department of Transportation awarded this grant, and I look forward to continuing to advocate for the Southwest Chief.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
10.22.2015	10.22.15 Gardner Condemns Veto of National Defense Authorization Act Washington, DC --­ Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement today following President Obama’s veto of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA): “With our men and women in uniform deployed around the world and working around the clock to keep us safe, it’s unconscionable that the President would veto a bill designed to give them the resources they need. The NDAA includes support for our troops and their families, resources for wounded warriors, and authorizes the funding required to continue ongoing operations against ISIS and others. “When NDAA came up for a vote earlier this month, 70 Senators, members of both parties, supported it. It is my hope those same Senators will come together to overturn this reckless veto and give our troops the tools they need to protect our country.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
10.22.2015	10.22.15 Gardner Statement On DOI Report on Animas River Spill Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the following statement on the Department of the Interior’s Gold King Mine Technical Report, an investigation into the Animas River spill: “I appreciate the Interior Department’s investigation into the Animas River spill, and I look forward to closely reviewing it,” said Gardner. “Based on an initial review of the report, I am deeply troubled that not only was the EPA found responsible for the release of millions of gallons of toxic waste into the Animas River, but it could have been prevented. I fully expect accountability and transparency from the EPA, and I look forward to a response to my questions surrounding the EPA’s insufficient and untimely recovery efforts and its proactive measures to prevent a disaster of similar magnitude in the future." ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510 (202) 224-5941
10.22.2015	10.22.15 Gardner Helps Shape Cybersecurity Debate Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today that an amendment he introduced with Senator Ben Cardin (D-MD) has been included in the substitute amendment which will be considered as the Senate debates the Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act of 2015. The Gardner-Cardin language would mandate that the Secretary of State produce a comprehensive strategy relating to the United States’ policy in cyberspace. The strategy, which would be required to be produced no later than 90 days after the bill’s enactment, would include a review of previous State Department actions on cyber issues, a plan of action to develop norms of responsible international behavior in cyberspace, and a description of the threats the United States faces in cyberspace. “It’s long past time for the United States to have a comprehensive strategy on cybersecurity,” Gardner said. “Senator Cardin and my amendment would require that the Secretary of State produce that strategy, and require that we clearly identify the threats our country faces in cyberspace. Cyberattacks have become one of the greatest threats to Americans’ privacy, our economy, and our national security. Without a strategy to identify those threats and counter them, our nation is dangerously vulnerable. Now is the time to act.” ###
10.21.2015	10.21.15 Gardner Introduces Bills to Streamline Medical Device Approval Process Washington, DC – Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Joe Donnelly (D-IN) today introduced the Rare Disease Innovation Act and the FDA Regulatory Efficiency Act, two bills that would streamline the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval process for certain medical devices. The Rare Disease Innovation Act paves the way for the manufacture and approval of medical devices that diagnose or treat individuals with rare diseases. This legislation will expand an existing program which simplifies and expedites the FDA approval of medical devices that will treat the rarest of diseases such as ALS, cerebral palsy, Hodgkin’s lymphoma, mesothelioma, and tuberculosis, in addition to many others. Right now, FDA has a simplified and expedited approval process for medical devices intended to treat or diagnose rare diseases that are present in 4,000 patients or fewer in the U.S. annually. The Rare Disease Innovation Act increases the threshold from 4,000 to 8,000 patient cases for medical devices that will qualify for expedited and simplified approval. Without this process, the research and development costs associated with these devices is not economical. By increasing the threshold from 4,000 to 8,000 patient cases, the Rare Disease Innovation Act creates an incentive for manufacturers to develop medical devices for rare diseases to help people with rare conditions gain access to technologies they would not otherwise. The FDA Regulatory Efficiency Act provides the FDA with the authority to transfer the initial review of 510(k) medical devices to accredited third parties that apply for approval through the FDA. 510(k) devices are low-risk medical devices that are substantially similar to devices that have already been approved by the FDA. Examples of 510(k) devices include powered wheelchairs, shunts, and CT scanners. By allowing accredited third parties to conduct the initial review of these devices, this legislation allows the FDA to spend more time reviewing new breakthrough technologies and expedite them to the market for patients who need them. “Streamlining the medical device approval process will enhance the quality of healthcare for those living in Colorado and across America,” said Gardner. “While the Rare Disease Innovation Act incentivizes the development of life-saving medical devices for those with rare diseases, the FDA Regulatory Efficiency Act allows the FDA to prioritize innovative medical devices that have the potential to revolutionize the health care industry. It's commonsense policy, and I look forward working with Senator Donnelly and my colleagues to support patient-centered solutions that improve quality of care while bringing down costs.” Donnelly said, “As a global leader in the device and pharmaceutical industries, the United States including my home state of Indiana is at the forefront of life-saving research. We must continue to close the gap between the development of new drugs and devices and bringing safe and effective products to the public. Our policies should ensure safety and encourage innovation in order to make life-saving technologies and medicines available to the people who need them the most. I am pleased to partner with my friend Senator Gardner, and I look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to advance this legislation.” ###
10.16.2015	10.16.15 Gardner Statement on Decertification of Colorado HealthOP Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement today following news that Colorado HealthOP, the state’s healthcare CO-OP, has been decertified by the Colorado Division of Insurance: “Once again, through absolutely no fault of their own, tens of thousands of Coloradans are facing the loss of their health insurance coverage. Losing coverage puts tremendous stress on individuals and on families, and seeing it happen as a result of poor planning and bad policy is infuriating. It’s critical for Colorado HealthOP to ensure that all outstanding claims are paid in a timely fashion and that a smooth transition into new coverage is found for those losing their insurance. “This failure can be added to the very long list of Obamacare’s broken promises. Taxpayers are on the hook for millions of dollars in loans given out to the CO-OP, money that will likely never be repaid. The years since Obamacare’s passage have been marked by crisis after crisis in healthcare, and it’s far past time for a new plan.” ###
10.15.2015	10.15.15 Gardner Letter Asks Kerry: Did Iranian Missile Launch Break U.N. Resolution? Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, announced today that he has joined with a bipartisan group of Senators to send a letter to Secretary of State John Kerry asking whether the Iranian regime’s test of a ballistic missile on October 11th was in violation of an existing U.N. ban. The letter further asks the Administration what their response would be should Iran conduct another such test once the nuclear deal with Iran is fully implemented. The letter was sent with Committee Chairman Bob Corker (R-TN) and Committee members Johnny Isakson (R-GA), Jeff Flake (R-AZ), Ron Johnson (R-WI), John Barrasso (R-WY), David Perdue (R-GA), and Tim Kaine (D-VA). The full letter is below, and a signed copy can be found here. Dear Mr. Secretary, We write to you regarding Iran's October 11th launch of a ballistic missile. The test launch appears to violate United Nations Security Council Resolution 1929; specifically that “Iran shall not undertake any activity related to ballistic missiles capable of delivering nuclear weapons, including launches using ballistic missile technology...” We believe this could potentially be the sixth such violation of this resolution by Iran since it was adopted in 2010 and it is especially troubling that this test occurred on the heels of the Iranian Parliament's approval of the JCPOA. We believe it is vitally important that the United States and other world powers immediately address any Iranian violation of international law, particularly as you begin to implement the nuclear agreement reached between the P5+1 and Iran. Please provide your determination on whether the Iranian missile launch violates UNSCR 1929 and what the administration, both unilaterally and through the UN Security Council, plans to do in response. Finally, we would like to clearly understand the Administration’s proposed response should Iran conduct a similar ballistic missile test once UNSCR 2231 is in effect, and if such a launch would be considered a violation of UNSCR 2231. Together, we must deter Iranian aggression and protect the interests of the United States and our allies, which requires an unwavering commitment to holding the Iranians accountable for their actions. We look forward to your response. ###
10.13.2015	10.13.15 Gardner Statement On Effort to Transfer Guantanamo Terrorists to Colorado Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement today following reports that Department of Defense officials are in Colorado scouting potential sites to hold prisoners from the Guantanamo Bay detention facility: “The Obama Administration’s decision to explore transferring Guantanamo terrorists to Colorado is reckless, illegal, and wrong. I wrote a letter last week asking the Administration why they were pursuing this effort in the face of U.S. law which expressly prohibits it. I have received no answer. “Coloradans oppose bringing these terrorists to our state, and are making their opposition known through their elected representatives. Why the Administration is choosing to ignore the public and ignore the law in an ill-conceived attempt to bring these prisoners onto U.S. soil is a question that they must answer. I call on them to do so before any boots are on the ground in Colorado.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 205150 (202) 224-5941
10.09.2015	10.09.15 Gardner Applauds Halting of WOTUS Rule Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement today following a decision by the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals to halt implementation, nationwide, of the so-called “Waters of the United States” (WOTUS) rule issued by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA): “This ruling is a victory for agriculture, rural communities, and all Coloradans,” Gardner said. “The EPA’s WOTUS rule represents a massive federal takeover of what had traditionally been state and local efforts to carefully regulate our own water. The rule would put the federal government in Washington in charge of ponds and streams in Colorado communities from Greeley to Alamosa. I’ve consistently opposed this power grab by the EPA, and am glad to see it halted nationwide. I’ll continue to press for state and local control of our water, and against federal efforts to micromanage Colorado’s water from Washington.” Senator Gardner has been a passionate opponent of the WOTUS rule and an advocate for state control of water law. He denounced the final WOTUS Rule upon its unveiling in May and applauded the decision by Federal Judge Ralph Erickson to halt the rule’s implementation in 13 states. In September, he signed on a co-sponsor of a resolution which would nullify the WOTUS rule. In April, the Senate passed a Gardner amendment to the budget protecting state water rights. He also urged the United States Forest Service to withdraw its proposed groundwater directive in February at an Energy and Natural Resources Committee hearing with Chief Tidwell in order to work with Western states to find common ground. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
10.08.2015	10.08.15 Gardner Announces Bill To Expand Rural Broadband Access Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced that he has joined with Senator Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) and Senator Steve Daines (R-MT) to introduce the Streamlining and Investing in Broadband Infrastructure Act. The Act would cut down on federal red tape on broadband infrastructure, especially in rural areas. It promotes a so-called “dig once” policy, which would encourage adding broadband infrastructure to new and expanding federally-funded highway projects. The Act would further streamline broadband infrastructure development on federal lands and property. “Access to broadband is access to the modern economy,” Gardner said. “This bill would make federal construction projects more efficient by encouraging simultaneous construction of transportation and broadband infrastructure. In addition, the bill would build on my efforts to encourage faster deployment of broadband infrastructure on federal lands. Continued rural economic development depends on expanded broadband internet access, and I’m proud to support this effort to ensure that expansion happens." In a Commerce Committee hearing yesterday, Senator Gardner asked former FCC Commissioner and current President of the Wireless Infrastructure Association Jonathan Adelstein about his support for this legislation. Adelstein replied that he thinks it’s a “fantastic idea… important for rural and urban areas alike.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
10.07.2015	10.07.15 Gardner Holds Hearing on North Korea Policy “Now is the time to enact a comprehensive strategy to quell North Korea’s aggression” Click here to watch. Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy, held a hearing today entitled ‘Assessing the North Korea Threat and U.S. Policy: Strategic Patience or Effective Deterrence?’ In his opening remarks, Senator Gardner emphasized the imminent threat posed by the rogue regime in Pyongyang as well as the regime’s history of violations of international laws and norms. Senator Gardner also paid particular attention to the regime’s horrendous record on human rights, touching on the vast network of political prison camps where hundreds of thousands are held, tortured, and maimed. Gardner spoke of the need for a new policy towards North Korea, and outlined the parameters of the sweeping new sanctions legislation he introduced along with Senator Risch (R-ID) and Senator Rubio (R-FL). More details and video of the hearing are available on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee website. RUSH TRANSCRIPT: Let me welcome you all to the fourth hearing for the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy in the 114th Congress. Thanks again to Senator Cardin for your work and cooperation in holding this important hearing today. This hearing is intended to address what in many ways has been a forgotten threat – the threat of North Korea. While our nation’s attention is rightly focused on the Middle East, the North Korean threat has grown exponentially, while there seems to be a falling asleep, so to speak, at the switch when it comes to North Korea. According to experts, North Korea may already have as many as 20 nuclear warheads and may have as many as 100 within the next five years. The regime has already tested nuclear weapons on three separate occasions: in 2006, 2009, and 2013, in violation of multiple U.N. Security Council resolutions. According to the Director of National Intelligence’s 2015 Worldwide Threat Assessment, “North Korea’s nuclear weapons and missile programs pose a serious threat to the United States and to the security environment in East Asia.” In April of this year, Admiral Bill Gortney, the commander of North American Aerospace Defense Command (NORAD), said that North Korea has developed the ability to launch a nuclear payload on its very own KN-08 Inter-Continental Ballistic Missile that is capable of reaching the United States. As Admiral Gortney stated, “Pyongyang has the ability to put a nuclear weapon on a KN-08 and shoot it at the homeland.” Besides the conventional military threats, North Korean cyber capabilities are growing, as evidenced by North Korea’s attack on South Korean financial and communication systems in March of 2013 and the Sony hack of earlier this year. Earlier this month, the Center for International and Strategic Studies, led by Dr. Victor Cha who is here with us today, produced a great study that described North Korea’s dangerous new cyber capabilities. The report stated: “North Korea is emerging as a significant actor in cyberspace with both its military and clandestine organizations gaining the ability to conduct cyber operations.” North Korea’s regime is also responsible for horrific human rights abuses. North Korea maintains a vast network of political prison camps, where as many as 200,000 men, women, and children are confined to atrocious living conditions, and are tortured, maimed, and killed. The landmark 2014 United Nations Commission of Inquiry on human rights in North Korea found, and I quote, “systematic, widespread and gross human rights violations” that in the Commission’s view “entailed crimes against humanity.” Yet efforts to counter these destabilizing North Korean policies and the imminent threat the Kim Jong Un regime poses to the world have yet to be completely dealt with. The policy of “strategic patience,” in my view, has been a strategic failure. This past August, I traveled to the region and met with top leaders in Japan and South Korea, including President Park who will be visiting Washington next week. In these meetings I heard a tremendous amount of concern regarding the growing North Korean threat and the direction of U.S. policy. So if this strategic policy will not change behavior, then I believe Congress needs to change the behavior. Yesterday, I introduced a bill with several of my colleagues on this Committee called the North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act of 2015, which seeks to take decisive new action to counter the North Korean threat. This legislation corrects our policy and mandates broad new sanctions against individuals involved in North Korea’s nuclear program and proliferation activities, as well as against officials involved in the regime’s continued human rights abuses and destabilizing cyber activities. It would also codify two executive orders released in 2015 authorizing sanctions against entities undermining U.S. national and economic security in cyberspace. It’s time to immediately reverse course and begin applying more pressure to the North Korean regime through additional financial sanctions, increased military engagement with our allies in the region, and more assertive diplomacy with China, which wields significant control over the fate of the region. And we must remember that more than 20 years ago, North Korea already pledged to dismantle its nuclear program, yet we now see a regime that has no respect for international agreements or international norms. The United States should never engage in negotiations with Pyongyang without imposing strict pre-conditions that North Korea take immediate steps to halt its nuclear program, cease all military provocations, and make credible steps to respecting the human rights of its own people. If the United States does not pursue increased actions against North Korea now, we could face much greater and immensely more consequential challenges in the future. Now is the time to enact a comprehensive strategy to quell North Korea’s aggression, and give our allies in the region a reason to trust us and our enemies a reason to fear us. With that, Senator Cardin I appreciate you being here today and I turn to you for your comments. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
10.07.2015	10.07.15 Gardner Reacts to President’s NDAA Veto Threat Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement today on President Obama’s pledge to veto the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) currently being considered by the Senate: “As the President’s foreign policy failures continue to pile up around the world, it is unconscionable that he is threatening to veto a bill to strengthen our military and support our servicemen and women. Given that Iran, the world’s leading state sponsor of terror, is receiving billions in sanctions relief through the President’s nuclear deal, it’s more important than ever that we are fully equipped to confront the threats we face. “This bill would authorize funding for the training, equipment, and pay raises that our troops need and deserve. I call on the President to drop his ill-conceived veto threat, and for all members of Congress to come together to ensure our military has the resources it needs to keep America safe.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
10.06.2015	10.06.15 Gardner Urges Obama to Drop Guantanamo Transfer Plan Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today that he has sent a letter to President Obama urging him to abandon any plans to move terrorists currently held at the Guantanamo Bay Naval Base detention facility to Colorado. Gardner’s letter, which follows an earlier statement warning the President against pursuing this plan, is in reaction to reports that Administration officials will make visits to various sites within Colorado. The letter reads, in full: Dear Mr. President: I write to urge you to immediately abandon any plans to transfer terrorists held at the Guantanamo Bay Naval Base detention facility (GTMO) to Colorado. I was recently informed that a team from the Department of Defense will conduct site visits within the next two weeks to the Federal Correctional Institute in Florence and Colorado State Penitentiary II in Cañon City. This visit is to assess the feasibility and costs of transferring foreign detainees held at GTMO to the State of Colorado. This plan is irresponsible, contrary to current U.S. law, and will unnecessarily endanger Coloradans and our communities. In addition to immediately abandoning this effort, I further seek clarification under what legal authority your Administration is conducting these assessments. There are restrictions in annual appropriations legislation and the National Defense Authorization Act, which prohibits the transfer, release, or assisting in the transfer or release of prisoners from GTMO to facilities in the United States. It appears your administration has chosen to ignore current law and move forward with your desire to relocate terrorists to U.S. soil without any legal basis to do so. Despite your campaign promise to close GTMO, the American people continue to roundly oppose such a plan and have clearly spoken on this issue through their elected representatives in Congress. I will oppose at every step your efforts to close GTMO and endanger my constituents. Sincerely, Cory Gardner United States Senator ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
10.06.2015	10.06.15 Gardner, Risch, Rubio Unveil Sweeping New North Korean Sanctions Legislation Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy, announced today that he, Senator Jim Risch (R-ID), and Senator Marco Rubio (R-FL) are introducing the North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act of 2015 (NKSPEA). NKSPEA includes broad new sanctions against individuals involved in North Korea’s nuclear program and proliferation activities, as well as officials involved in censoring the regime’s continued human rights abuses. In addition to sanctions, NKSPEA contains several corrections to United States policy and strategy related to North Korea. The bill would state that it is the policy of the United States to vigorously pursue sanctions against the North Korean government in order to peacefully disarm the North Korean regime. It would require the President to submit a strategy to counter North Korean cyber-related attacks and impose U.S. sanctions on cybercriminals. It would also codify two executive orders released in 2015 authorizing sanctions against entities undermining U.S. national and economic security in cyberspace. Further, it would require a report by the State Department identifying human rights abusers in North Korea and a report on the North Korean regimes’ political prison camps. “While much attention has rightfully been paid to developments in the Middle East, we must not forget the severe risk posed by the nuclear-armed and increasingly belligerent regime in North Korea,” Gardner said. “The regime is a menace to the region and to its own people, with a disturbing record of human rights violations. We need a stronger, more focused policy on North Korea, and if the Administration is unwilling to provide it, Congress must act. The new sanctions within this legislation would apply the pressure required to change North Korea’s behavior, and would mandate that the United States finally have a unified strategy for dealing with North Korean cyber attacks. We can’t go any longer without a serious plan to deal with this threat. It’s time to get serious.” “North Korea remains one of the biggest nuclear threats to the United States and our allies around the world,” Risch said. “The Obama Administration has failed to take this threat seriously and instead focused on a bad deal with Iran. It is time for the United States to increase pressure on North Korea and require them to end their nuclear program, stop the cyber-attacks against us, and respect the human rights of their own citizens. This legislation will help create a clear strategy and impose the same type of sanctions that drove Iran to the negotiating table. “While the world is distracted by other bad actors, the North Korean regime continues to flagrantly conduct illegal arms sales, proliferate sensitive technology, expands its nuclear weapons program conduct cyber attacks, and repress the North Korean people,” Rubio said. “The North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act of 2015 bolsters our current sanctions regime against North Korea. The United States must continue to stand against Kim Jong Un’s tyrannical regime and work to pressure North Korea's leadership to end the modern day gulags that should haunt our consciences.” Gardner has taken the lead on North Korean policy throughout his first term in the Senate. He pressed for a full investigation into the regime’s role in an assault on an American ambassador. He has urged the Obama Administration to take action to stop North Korean nuclear development. He has secured adoption by the Foreign Relations committee of language calling for a new, stronger policy on North Korea. And in travels to the region, he has met with South Korea President Park Geun-hye to discuss the threat posed by North Korean aggression. In policy speeches, Senator Gardner has further pressed for a new trilateral relationship between Japan, South Korea, and the United States to act as a regional check on both the influence of China as well as North Korean efforts to destabilize Asia. On Wednesday, Senator Gardner will chair a Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee hearing on the North Korea Threat. A full copy of the sanctions legislation is available here. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
10.05.2015	10.05.15 Gardner Statement on Conclusion of TPP Negotiations Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy, released the following statement today following the announced agreement on the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP): “The Trans-Pacific Partnership has the potential to reshape America’s relationship with the nations of the Pacific Rim, enhance U.S. leadership in this critically important region, and provide a major boost to our economy. Trade with these nations already supports hundreds of thousands of jobs in Colorado alone, and TPP has the potential to create even more. “I look forward to carefully reviewing the deal that the President sends over to Congress.” Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell has said that the Senate will review this agreement in the coming months before holding vote. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
10.01.2015	10.01.15 Gardner on North Korean Sanctions: “Not Nearly Enough” Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement after the Obama Administration imposed sanctions against two North Korean firms for proliferation activities: “The sanctions imposed by the Obama administration are insufficient, and further evidence of a feckless foreign policy; a tacit acknowledgement that this Administration’s ‘strategic patience’ toward North Korea has been a complete and utter failure.” “These sanctions are not nearly enough. Besides the fact that today’s sanctions against these entities are not new, they do nothing to address North Korea’s horrifying record on human rights, and they do nothing to address North Korea’s dangerous and destabilizing actions in cyberspace. “On October 7th, I will chair a hearing in the Senate on the North Korean threat. I look forward to exploring what else the United States could be doing to peacefully disarm the North Korean regime and alleviate the plight of the North Korean people.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
10.01.2015	10.01.15 Gardner Chairs Small Business Committee Hearing on Impact of Gold King Mine Spill “EPA should be held to the same standard as EPA would hold a private company for the spill.” Click Here to Watch Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) chaired a hearing today of the Senate Small Business Committee on the impact of the Gold King Mine Spill on local communities and businesses. Senator Gardner laid out the timeline of the spill, which occurred on August 5th, 2015, when the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) released millions of gallons of wastewater into the Animas River. He discussed the EPA’s lackluster response to the spill and laid out much of the work that remains to be done. He discussed possible legislative efforts to address the impact of this spill and prevent future spills, and committed to working in a bipartisan manner to find real solutions. The full hearing, with all witness testimony, is available here via C-SPAN. RUSH TRANSCRIPT: On August 5th 2015, the Environmental Protection Agency released approximately 3 million gallons of contaminated water into Cement Creek from Gold King Mine north of Silverton, Colorado. The water quickly moved downstream to the Animas River, and eventually flowed into the San Juan River and Lake Powell, which is 300 miles downstream. The spill had an impact on Colorado, New Mexico, Utah, the Southern Ute Indian Tribe, Ute Mountain Ute, and the Navajo Nation. From the outset of the spill, I have said that the EPA should be held to the same standard as EPA would hold a private company for the spill. This means investigations must be conducted, people must be held accountable, and tough questions must be asked. The La Plata County Sheriff closed public access to the Animas River on August 6th. We visited the spill site on August 9th, Senator Bennet and I – four days after the spill – and the EPA still did not have an appropriate crisis response team in place. It was not until the following day, August 10th, that the EPA established a unified command center in Durango to address the spill. The river was not reopened until August 14th – 9 days after the initial surge of contaminated water. Water testing shows that the surface water of the river has returned to pre-event levels, but many have questions about sediment on the river bottom and the rocks lining the river. This sediment contains various pollutants and the EPA initially installed settling ponds to address this contamination, which we hope will slow the flow of contaminates in the Animas River. Last month there was a series of congressional oversight hearings that took place in both the United States Senate and the House of Representatives. We learned answers to some inquiries during the EPA’s testimony at these hearings, but more questions remain on what exactly took place in the events leading up to and immediately following the spill, and how to get our communities back on track, including liability compensation from the EPA. It’s my hope that the EPA’s Office of Inspector General’s report will provide more clarity and transparency on the spill and I also look forward to the release of the Department of Interior’s assessment of the Gold King Mine spill. For Colorado and downstream communities, there are still serious concerns that exist that the EPA must address. EPA recently announced that by October 14th, the agency will open a temporary water treatment system which will replace the settling ponds that were first constructed by the EPA in August. It’s good news for our communities for the winter months, but further mitigation like EPA’s long-term remediation plan and the need for future monitoring for heightened contamination during spring runoff must still be addressed. Some claim that the Gold King Mine spill shows the need for broad mining reform legislation which would include reforms to the Mining Law of 1872. In reality, what we have to work on right now is the need for legislation that would allow these abandoned mines across the West to be cleaned up by Good Samaritans - language that has passed the Senate committees before, while other conversations about mining laws move forward. There has been broad bipartisan support for passing Good Samaritan legislation in the past. I’m committed to working with Senator Bennet and the Environment and the Public Works Committee Chairman in a bipartisan fashion to get Good Samaritan legislation through the Senate. In fact, that’s the only way that we are going to get Good Samaritan legislation through is to work in a bipartisan fashion. I am also working with Senator Bennet on the need for a water treatment plant in the Upper Animas River watershed. And so today’s hearing is extremely important because it provides us with a different view then we’ve had in the previous hearings. It provides us with an opportunity to hear from people on the ground who are business owners, who represent businesses and communities, and who represent the people of the counties affected. And that’s why I am disappointed that we do not have a EPA representative here who could answer basic questions about the points Congressman Tipton raised in his opening statement, about compensation, about how do you determine what level of compensation to provide to a hotel, whether it’s a cancellation, is that related to the Gold King Mine spill, of a rafting trip, is it a cancellation of a hotel room, is it a cancellation of a dinner reservation? How can we really determine what costs incurred? These are questions that we still have and we would have liked to have had answered today by the appropriate representative. Property damage, lost economic opportunity, and as Congressman Tipton mentioned, the long-term impact. How do we get answers and compensation for these very significant issues? There are going to be a number of proposals before Congress and I look forward to working on them with Senator Bennet. And again, I think it’s critically important that the only way we can address some of these issues is of course by with bipartisan support. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
09.30.2015	09.30.15 Gardner Speaks on Senate Floor About Aurora VA Hospital “This bill will allow us to finish the job” Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) spoke earlier this afternoon on the Senate floor after the House of Representatives passed what should be the final spending authorization bill required to complete construction of the Aurora VA Hospital. In his remarks, Senator Gardner applauded the passage of the authorization, thanked his colleagues for their support, and encouraged the President to sign the bill into law as quickly as possible. He emphasized the importance of delivering on this promise to our veterans, and his reiterated his continued focus on holding the VA accountable for the unacceptable delays and cost overruns which have plagued the project. RUSH TRANSCRIPT: Today marks a pivotal day for veterans in Colorado and the Rocky Mountain Region. Just minutes ago the House of Representatives approved a Senate bill to extend several important authorizations to Coloradans. Authorizations important to the healthcare of our country’s veterans, because the bill includes authorization to complete the Denver VA replacement medical facility. After years of persistence, years of passion, years of emotion, we have finally, finally passed a bill to finish the job at the Denver VA replacement facility in Aurora, Colorado. This bill will allow us to finish the job, allowing the replacement facility to move forward that’s critical for the care of veterans in Colorado and the Rocky Mountain Region, fulfill the promise that we have made to our veterans. This bill also turns the page on the gross mismanagement by the VA of this project and will allow the Army Corps of Engineers to take over the management of the project to ensure its competition without further delay. There is simply no acceptable excuse for how the project ended up in this current state; years delayed, hundreds of millions of dollars over budget. And while the bill will turn the page on this day, it will not turn our focus away from reforms at the VA to ensure accountability and to ensure this never happens again. I’ve worked with a number of my colleagues to initiate these reforms, including an amendment to the Defense Authorization bill that will get the VA out of the big construction business. I come to the floor today to say thank you. Thank you to my colleagues, specifically Senator Isakson, Senator Blumenthal, Senator Kirk, Senator Tester, the Majority Leader, and their staff, my colleague Michael Bennet for their leadership on this issue and of course none of this would have been possible without the incredible work of Mike Coffman, Congressman representing the area, Ed Perlmutter, and the entire Colorado delegation who worked so hard to make this happen. They’ve all provided a great service to veterans in passing this legislation out of the House today. Mr. President, years from now, when Veterans go to this hospital to receive the care that we have promised, they will enter into what will be the crown jewel of the VA infrastructure, the crown jewel of the VA system. It took a lot of hard work to get here, and today I am excited with the passage of the house bill, passage of the senate, a bill is on its way to the President to finish the job to complete the hospital, and to fulfill our promise. Mr. President I yield the floor. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
09.30.2015	09.30.15 Gardner Statement on House Vote to Authorize Aurora VA Hospital Spending Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement following the passage by the House of Representatives of a bill authorizing the spending of $625 million dollars for the completion of the Aurora VA Hospital: “I commend my House colleagues, with whom I have worked closely throughout this process, on this vote. I will continue to work with them to hold the VA accountable for its inexcusable delays and cost overruns on this project. Veterans in Colorado and the West deserve the facility they were promised, and I look forward to the President signing this authorization into law. It’s time to deliver.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
09.30.2015	09.30.15 Gardner Votes To Finish the Job at Aurora VA Hospital Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement following his vote in favor of a Continuing Resolution (CR) which includes funding for completing the new VA medical facility in Aurora: “Completion of the Aurora VA hospital has been one of my top priorities in the Senate. I’m proud to have helped secure the last funding that should be required to finish construction and deliver to veterans the facility they were promised. It’s critical that the House pass this funding as well, and additionally pass the authorization required to spend it. “Responsible governance means keeping the government running. I will continue to work towards longer-term budget solutions which reduce spending, reduce the debt, and cut back on rampant waste.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
09.29.2015	09.29.15 Gardner Addresses Future of U.S.-China Relationship “…only tough resolve from the United States and our partners can impact Beijing’s actions and calculus.” Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy, today chaired a hearing entitled “The Changing Landscape of U.S.-China Relations: What's Next?” In his opening statement, Senator Gardner addressed several points about China’s recent behavior in the South China sea, its activity in cyberspace, and its leverage over the North Korean regime. Senator Gardner’s remarks, as prepared, read: Today’s hearing comes at an opportune time, with President of the Republic of China, Xi Jinping, having just concluded his state visit to the United States. Prior to this visit, I sent a letter to President Obama with three of my colleagues on this Committee, urging the President to demonstrate leadership and deliver a strong message of U.S. concern to President Xi regarding the troubling trajectory of China’s foreign and domestic policies. I urged the President to reiterate that China’s recent destabilizing actions in the East China Sea and South China Sea, their behavior in cyberspace, and their human rights abuses are actions fundamentally at odds with a country that wants to be considered a peacefully rising global power. China has declared an illegitimate Air Defense Identification Zone in the East China Sea and has dramatically expanded its land reclamation activities in the South China Sea. According to the Pentagon, China has created about 3,000 acres of new land over the past 18 months and has “deployed artillery, built aircraft runways and buildings and positioned radars and other equipment.” While on a visit to Beijing last month, I had an opportunity to engage a top official from the People’s Liberation Army on this issue and came out convinced that only tough resolve from the United States and our partners can impact Beijing’s actions and calculus. China’s actions mean that we must urgently pursue enhanced security measures with our traditional and emerging allies in the Asia-Pacific region to ensure future peace and stability. First and foremost, we must enhance the capabilities of like-minded partners in the region with regard to maritime security, starting with the effort recently announced by Secretary of Defense Ashton Carter called the ‘Southeast Asia Maritime Security Initiative’. And we should never miss an opportunity to reiterate our policy, as stated by Secretary Carter at the Shangri-La Dialogue in Singapore on May 30, 2015: “The United States will fly, sail, and operate wherever international law allows, as U.S. forces do all over the world. America, alongside its allies and partners in the regional architecture, will not be deterred from exercising these rights — the rights of all nations.” China’s behavior in cyberspace has also emerged as a serious threat to U.S national and economic security. Regrettably, well-documented state-sponsored or state-endorsed Chinese activities have not been met with an appropriate response from the United States. Although last year, the Administration announced criminal charges against 5 officials of the People’s Liberation Army, clearly that has not been enough to deter further bad behavior from Beijing. I am deeply disappointed that despite the new Executive Orders issued on January 2 and April 1, 2015, this Administration has not penalized a single entity responsible for national security threats or commercial cyber-enabled activities directed against our nation and emanating from China. On my trip to Beijing, I met with China’s Cybersecurity Minister Lu Wei and had a frank conversation about these issues. We agreed that China and the U.S. must continue to talk about building international norms in cyberspace and we’ve seen very modest progress on this issue with the cyber agreement announced last Friday. But given the grave threat China’s activities represent to U.S. national and economic security interests, this Administration and future Administrations should never hesitate to use the punitive tools at their disposal, such as criminal charges and sanctions, to punish any and all Chinese-sponsored cybercrime. We also urgently need U.S. leadership to reverse China’s deplorable human rights record, which recently included illegal detention and harassment of more than a 100 lawyers in China. The United States must have consistent and assertive diplomatic engagement with China to reinforce that all of these behaviors fall outside of accepted international norms. We should also build a strong trilateral partnership between U.S., Japan, and South Korea, in the hopes that it will put the right kind of pressure on Beijing to play by established international rules. I believe that a mature, productive, and peaceful relationship with Beijing is in the national security and economic interest of the United States. The United States can and should seek to engage China to solve complex regional and global challenges. For instance, the United States must continue to engage China on the threat of the North Korea, since Beijing holds to key to the survival of that regime – and that is a message I reiterated to Foreign Minister Wang Yi in Beijing during our meeting last month. However, the actions by China I mentioned today seriously jeopardize our bilateral relations and are not befitting of a peaceful rising global power that China claims to be. These actions require a strong U.S. response and leadership, consistent with international norms and in concert with our traditional and emerging allies in the Asia-Pacific. Unfortunately, in my reading of the outcomes of this summit, the big issues I mentioned today seemed left largely unaddressed. So what did this state visit achieve to change this sorry state of affairs in U.S.-China relations? Can Beijing turn from a path from confrontation to cooperation? What should the U.S. policy be to affect positive change in Beijing’s behavior? I look forward to our witnesses addressing these and other questions today. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
09.29.2015	09.29.15 Gardner Presses for Answers on Solvency of Colorado Healthcare Co-Op Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today that he has sent a letter to Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services Sylvia Burwell asking questions about the financial solvency of the federally-backed Colorado Consumer Operated and Oriented Plan (CO-OP) called Colorado HealthOP, and its ability to repay its loans to the American taxpayer. Established by the Affordable Care Act (ACA) as an alternative to private insurance plans, CO-OPs nationwide were awarded roughly $6 billion in federally-backed loans. CO-OPs in numerous states have experienced financial difficulty, and several, including in Louisiana, Iowa and Nebraska, and Nevada, have failed outright. Due to these failures, and the lack of oversight by the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services, the CO-OPs have lost $277 million dollars. Colorado HealthOP reportedly serves 40 percent of Colorado's exchange sign-ups and was granted a $72.3 million dollar loan. Gardner’s letter to Burwell asks for more information about the performance of Colorado HealthOP, and whether taxpayers have any hope of seeing the millions of dollars in loans given out to Colorado HealthOP repaid. The letter reads, in part: Considering the recent CO-OP closures, what metrics has your agency put in place as a basis to determine which CO-OPs are underperforming? Has Colorado HealthOP been meeting its application projections, or has it been placed on boosted oversight by your agency? Are there other metrics you consider to determine if Colorado HealthOP is on a sustainable trajectory? Using these metrics, what is the estimated ability of Colorado HealthOP to repay its loans? The full letter is available here. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
09.29.2015	09.29.15 Colorado Senators Team Up to Honor Dinosaur National Monument Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), along with Senator Michael Bennet (D-CO), announced today that the Senate has passed a resolution they introduced recognizing the 100th anniversary of Dinosaur National Monument and designating October 4th, 2015 as “Dinosaur National Monument Day”. The resolution lays out the storied history of Dinosaur National Monument, its critical scientific importance, and the enjoyment it brings to all those who visit: Whereas in 1909, paleontologist Earl Douglass discovered the world-famous Carnegie Quarry, a remarkable window to the dinosaurs of the late Jurassic period; Whereas on October 4, 1915, President Woodrow Wilson established Dinosaur National Monument by Presidential Proclamation Number 1313 (39 Stat. 1752), which preserved the deposits of extraordinary dinosaur fossils; Whereas on July 14, 1938, President Franklin D. Roosevelt enlarged Dinosaur National Monument by Presidential Proclamation Number 2290 (53 Stat. 2454), to include the Green and Yampa River canyon country in order to protect additional land of historical and scientific interest; Whereas October 4, 2015, marks the 100th anniversary of the establishment of Dinosaur National Monument; Whereas Dinosaur National Monument is a State and national treasure that attracts hundreds of thousands of visitors each year and benefits national, State, and local economies by generating millions of dollars in revenue; Whereas Dinosaur National Monument has the most complete geological record of any unit of the National Park System; Whereas Dinosaur National Monument protects more than 210,000 acres of exceptionally diverse communities of plants and animals, including bears, mountain lions, bighorn sheep, moose, elk, otters, and beavers; Whereas Dinosaur National Monument contains the lower section of the Yampa River, and the confluence of the Yampa and Green Rivers within Dinosaur National Monument provides outstanding scientific opportunities to observe and study the effects of the Rivers; Whereas Dinosaur National Monument preserves and protects significant archaeological evidence of the prehistoric Fremont Indians, providing an excellent opportunity for research and education; Whereas the National Park Service will continue the long tradition of preserving and protecting Dinosaur National Monument for years to come, providing access to the wilderness and wildlife within Dinosaur National Monument for generations of Americans; and Whereas on October 4, 2015, the National Park Service intends to celebrate the start of the next century of stewardship for Dinosaur National Monument: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the Senate— (1) congratulates and celebrates Dinosaur National Monument on the 100th anniversary of the establishment of the monument; (2) encourages all people of Colorado, Utah, and the United States to visit that unique national treasure; and (3) designates October 4, 2015, as Dinosaur National Monument Day. A PDF of the resolution is available here. ###
09.25.2015	09.25.15 Gardner Meets with Chinese President Xi Jinping Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy, released the following statement today following a meeting with Chinese President Xi Jinping: “I appreciated the chance to meet with President Xi Jinping today. Earlier this week, I asked President Obama to make several points in his meeting with President Xi. In today’s meeting, many of those points were emphasized: that China’s behavior in cyberspace is unacceptable, that their aggression in the South China Sea threatens regional stability, that their human rights record remains deplorable, and that China and the United States’ best interests will be served by a mutually beneficial relationship that abides by international laws and norms. “On the Foreign Relations Committee, I will continue to be a voice for Colorado and America’s interests in Asia. That means developing a mature and productive relationship with China – one that is sustainable only when China ceases its destabilizing behavior and starts respecting global norms.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
09.25.2015	09.25.15 Gardner Statement On U.S.-China Cybersecurity Agreement Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy, released the following statement after the announcement of a new cybersecurity agreement between the United States government and the government of the People’s Republic of China: “Today’s announcement is a step forward, one that I hope will lead to more focus on cybersecurity and combatting cyber threats. But much more work remains to be done. This is an issue I’ve raised over and over again, with State Department officials as well as officials in the Chinese government. That’s why I’ve pressed for the Administration to develop a comprehensive cybersecurity strategy. It’s why I’ve called for the creation of a select committee on cybersecurity in the Senate to unify our legislative efforts. Cybersecurity is not the flavor of the week. This is the future of our national security. “We cannot be blind to the damage already inflicted upon us by hackers linked to the Chinese government, who are widely believed to be responsible for the recent hack of the Office of Personnel Management and numerous commercial breaches that have undermined our economic security. The United States must make every effort to hold those criminals accountable immediately. That’s why I've written two letters urging the President to use all the tools at his disposal to punish perpetrators of Chinese-sponsored cyber crimes. I will press the Administration to continue pursuing justice while developing a cybersecurity strategy that protects Americans from cyber threats.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
09.25.2015	09.25.15 Gardner Praises Senate Passage of VA Hospital Funding Authorization Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today that the United States Senate has, by unanimous consent, authorized the $625 million in spending estimated to be required for the completion of the Denver VA Hospital currently under construction: “This hospital has been one of my top priorities in the Senate. Passage of this authorization is a major step towards the completion of the hospital, and should be the last authorization required for construction to be finished and the hospital’s doors opened,” Gardner said. “Veterans in Colorado and across the west have waited far too long for the facility they were promised. Much work remains to be done. We must ensure that the hospital is finally completed and hold those responsible for the delays accountable. “I’d like to thank my Senate colleagues for their support of this measure, and I am glad that funding pursuant to this authorization is included in the Continuing Resolution being considered by the Senate. I call on the leadership of the House of Representatives to swiftly follow the Senate’s lead in passing an authorization for this funding. I will work closely with my House colleagues, as I have been throughout this process, on ensuring that happens.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
09.25.2015	09.25.15 Gardner Statement on Boehner Resignation Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement today following the announcement that Speaker of the House John Boehner will resign his seat in Congress: “John Boehner is a devoted family man, an exceptionally talented public servant, and one of the proudest Americans I know. One of twelve children, he went from sweeping the floors at his father’s Cincinnati bar to walking the halls of the Capitol as the highest ranking official in Congress. “He has lived the American dream, and been an inspiration to many, including myself. From my time in the House to the current day, I am proud to consider John Boehner a friend and ally. I will miss his steady leadership — our country is better off for his service.” ###
09.24.2015	09.24.15 Gardner Welcomes Pope Francis To The Capitol Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement today ahead of Pope Francis’ address to a joint meeting of Congress: “Pope Francis has dedicated his life to serving the Lord, the Catholic Church, and the poor – inspiring people all around the globe to join him in caring for the less fortunate,” said Gardner. “I welcome Pope Francis to the Capitol today and I look forward to his historic address to Congress.” ###
09.22.2015	09.22.15 Gardner, Barrasso, Isakson, Perdue Urge President Obama To Deliver A Strong Message To China Washington, DC – Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO), John Barrasso (R-WY), Johnny Isakson (R-GA), and David Perdue (R-GA) today sent a letter to President Obama ahead of the state visit of the President of the People’s Republic of China Xi Jinping. The Senators urged President Obama to “demonstrate strong leadership” and condemn China’s recent destabilizing actions in the East China Sea and South China Sea, its behavior in cyberspace that threatens U.S. national and economic security, as well as China’s human rights abuses. Additionally, they reiterated that while the U.S. should seek a “mature, productive, and peaceful” relationship with China, President Obama must deliver a strong message to President Xi that “China must play by international rules or face the consequences.” Dear Mr. President, In advance of the state visit of the President of the People’s Republic of China (PRC), Xi Jinping, we write to urge you to demonstrate leadership and deliver a strong message of U.S. concern regarding the trajectory of China’s foreign and domestic policies. We urge you to reiterate that China’s recent destabilizing actions in the East China Sea and South China Sea are contrary to international law and necessitate a strong U.S. and regional response. China has declared an illegitimate Air Defense Identification Zone (ADIZ) in the East China Sea and has dramatically expanded its land reclamation activities in the South China Sea. According to the Pentagon, China has created about 3,000 acres of new land over the past 18 months and has “deployed artillery, built aircraft runways and buildings and positioned radars and other equipment.” We hope you deliver the message that the United States considers these actions unacceptable and will continue to stand for freedom of navigation and support our allies in the region to legally and otherwise challenge the PRC’s groundless claims of sovereignty, such as the so-called “nine-dash line.” We fully agree with Secretary of Defense Ashton Carter’s statement, delivered in Singapore on May 30, 2015: “The United States will fly, sail, and operate wherever international law allows, as U.S. forces do all over the world. America, alongside its allies and partners in the regional architecture, will not be deterred from exercising these rights — the rights of all nations.” China’s behavior in cyberspace has emerged as a serious threat to U.S national and economic security and we urge you to make this issue a top priority during President Xi’s visit. We are concerned that well-documented state-sponsored or state-endorsed PRC activities have not been met with an appropriate response from the United States. Pursuant to criminal authorities at your disposal as well as the new Executive Orders 13687 and 13694, issued on January 2 and April 1, 2015, we urge you to penalize all entities that your Administration considers to be responsible for national security or commercial cyber-enabled activities directed against our nation. We urge you to reiterate to President Xi that China’s actions are fundamentally at odds with the goal of “open, interoperable, secure, and reliable information and communications infrastructure that supports international trade and commerce, strengthens international security, and fosters free expression and innovation”, as stated in your 2011 International Strategy for Cyberspace. You should likewise voice serious U.S. concern over China’s domestic trajectory, such as the intensifying human rights abuses and crackdown on civil society by the PRC authorities. According to the State Department’s 2014 annual human rights report on China: “Repression and coercion were routine, particularly against organizations and individuals involved in civil and political rights advocacy and public interest issues, ethnic minorities, and law firms that took on sensitive cases.” The most recent example of this disturbing trend is the illegal detention and harassment of more than a 100 lawyers in China. We also urge you to reiterate that the new draft laws in China concerning non-governmental organizations and the Anti-Terrorism Law seem to empower China’s unaccountable public security apparatus at the expense of the fundamental freedoms of its citizens. As the United States and China continue to negotiate a Bilateral Investment Treaty (BIT), we urge you to raise with President Xi the continuing concerns of the U.S. business community regarding ongoing and rampant intellectual property theft, new regulations that seek to discriminate against American companies, anti-market policies that favor state-owned enterprises, lack of transparency, and other policies that create an uneven playing field for U.S. enterprises in China. While many American firms still look to China as a top priority to grow and succeed in the global marketplace, without tangible economic and legal reforms within the PRC, we fear these opportunities will be more limited in the future and seriously jeopardize the bilateral commercial relations between our nations. Mr. President, we believe that a mature, productive, and peaceful relationship with Beijing is in the national security and economic interest of the United States. The United States can and should seek to engage China to solve complex regional and global challenges. However, the actions by China outlined in this letter risk seriously jeopardizing our bilateral relations and are not befitting of a peaceful rising global power that China claims to be. These actions require a strong U.S. response and leadership, consistent with international norms and in concert with our traditional and emerging allies in the Asia-Pacific. It is our sincere hope that during the upcoming summit with President Xi, you will show such leadership and deliver a message that China must play by international rules or face the consequences. We look forward to your timely consideration and timely response to this letter. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
09.22.2015	09.22.15 Gardner Statement on Hillary Clinton's Keystone Announcement Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement after former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s announcement that she opposes the construction of the Keystone XL Pipeline: “Seven years after the application to build the Keystone XL Pipeline was filed, Hillary Clinton made the ‘Hard Choice’ to side with radical environmentalists against American jobs. “Constructing the Keystone XL Pipeline would create jobs here at home, move us further towards North American energy independence, and help reduce our need for oil from overseas. I’m disappointed by Hillary Clinton’s choice.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
09.22.2015	09.22.15 Gardner Reacts To Filibuster Of Defense Bill Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the following statement after a partisan minority in the Senate blocked a vote to fund the Department of Defense (DoD) through a filibuster: “It’s unacceptable that a partisan minority blocked a vote to fund the Department of Defense. The defense appropriations bill provides for our national defense and supports our troops, including the service men and women who work at the six military installations in Colorado. “At a time when we are facing new and emerging threats both at home and abroad, it’s more important now than ever that our men and women in uniform have the resources they need to do what they do best: keep our country safe. I’ll continue to work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to ensure the defense appropriations bill moves through the legislative process, and the end product reflects Colorado’s priorities and paves the way for us to meet our national goals.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
09.22.2015	09.22.15 Gardner Statement on Sage-Grouse Announcement Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement today following the Secretary of the Interior’s announcement that the greater sage-grouse does not warrant protection under the Endangered Species Act: “Keeping the greater sage-grouse from being listed as an endangered species has always been my goal, and I’m glad Secretary Jewell arrived at the same conclusion. Greater sage-grouse populations are increasing, and I commend the collaborative efforts from stakeholders to keep this bird from being listed. While land use management is best handled by local groups, landowners and state leaders, I will be closely monitoring the implementation of the federal land-use management plans on our public lands in Northwest Colorado and across the West.” Senator Gardner introduced the Sage-Grouse Protection and Conservation Act in April. The Act would have allowed for the implementation of state-created conservation and management plans for sage-grouse recovery. The state of Colorado has already spent over $60 million for greater sage-grouse protection. The Act, co-sponsored by eight other western Senators and endorsed by numerous stakeholders, put pressure on the Interior Department to not list the sage-grouse. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
09.18.2015	09.18.15 Gardner Presses for Permanent Reauthorization of Land and Water Conservation Fund Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today that he has joined a bipartisan letter addressed to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) and Minority Leader Harry Reid (D-NV) pressing for a permanent reauthorization of the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF). The LWCF provides funding for conservation and helps ensure public access to the outdoors. Senator Gardner voted to make the LWCF’s authorization permanent in January, but that vote fell one vote shy of passage. The Senator also voted to make LWCF authorization permanent in the bipartisan energy bill that passed through the Energy and Natural Resources Committee by a vote of 18-4. “The LWCF is one of the most critical tools we have for protecting our nation’s natural treasures,” Gardner said. “Its permanent reauthorization is supported by sportsmen, hunters, and many other Coloradans who appreciate the outdoors. It’s a responsible fiscal partnership and provides countless benefits. “I’ve supported making the LWCF’s authorization permanent throughout my time in the Senate, and I will continue to work towards making that goal a reality. I’m proud to join this letter and will continue to press Senate leadership for a permanent solution to responsibly funding the preservation of public lands.” The letter reads, in full: Dear Majority Leader McConnell and Minority Leader Reid: Fifty years ago, the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF) Act of 1964 established America’s most successful conservation and recreation program. The Fund was designed to assure that outdoor recreation lands would be secured, on a pay-as-you-go basis, for future generations. As we mark this anniversary, the expiration of this critical investment tool on September 30 is quickly approaching. We write to express our strong support for LWCF, to ask your help in ensuring that the program’s authorization does not lapse, and to urge that its permanent reauthorization be included in legislation to be enacted this session. Investments in LWCF support public land conservation and ensure access to the outdoors for all Americans, in rural communities and cities alike. It has created outdoor recreation opportunities in every state and 98 percent of counties across the country, opening up key areas for hunting, fishing, and other recreational access; supporting working forests and ranches; acquiring inholdings and protecting critical lands in national parks, national wildlife refuges, national forests, Civil War battlefields, and other federal areas; and making additions and improvements to state and local parks and recreation facilities. Lasting authorization and consistent funding of the LWCF will help ensure that the Fund plays the strongest possible role in revitalizing local communities. America's outdoor recreation, conservation, and preservation economies contribute over $1 trillion to the nation's economy each year and support 9.4 million American jobs, this is one out of every 15 jobs in the U.S. Support for public lands among the American public remains consistently and overwhelmingly strong. The LWCF uses no taxpayer dollars, and instead, funds are primarily derived from oil and gas receipts paid to the federal government by energy companies that extract publicly-owned resources from the Outer Continental Shelf. Congress created LWCF as a bipartisan promise to return precious resources back to the American public by using these funds specifically for conservation and recreation purposes. Despite its history of underfunding, LWCF remains the premier federal program to conserve our nation's land, water, historic, and recreation heritage. We urge the inclusion of a short-term reauthorization of the LWCF in the coming days before the program expires on September 30, and seek your commitment to work with us to achieve permanent authorization and consistent funding of the LWCF in any legislation poised to become law this year. We must act quickly to renew this program, and we look forward to working with you toward that end. A copy of the full, signed letter is available here. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
09.17.2015	09.17.15 Gardner Joins Effort to Stop Federal Water Takeover Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today that he has signed on as a co-sponsor to a resolution introduced by Senator Joni Ernst (R-IA) which would nullify the federal infringement on water rights commonly known as the “Waters of the United States” (WOTUS) rule. The rule is currently on hold in 13 states, including Colorado, from implementation due to a ruling by a Federal Judge that the rule infringed on state sovereignty to govern their own water laws. “The WOTUS rule would give the federal government authority over small ponds, ditches, and streams in states across the country,” Gardner said. “It represents a major encroachment into the rights of states to govern their own waterways, and drastically expands the federal government’s power at the expense of farmers, ranchers, and all Coloradans concerned with local control of our water supply. I’m proud to join Senator Ernst and other co-sponsors in working to block a federal takeover of Colorado waterways.” The full text of the resolution is available here. Senator Gardner has been a passionate opponent of the WOTUS rule and an advocate for state control of water law. He denounced the final WOTUS Rule upon its unveiling in May and applauded the decision by Federal Judge Ralph Erickson to halt the rule’s implementation. He also urged the United States Forest Service to withdraw its proposed groundwater directive in February at an Energy and Natural Resources Committee hearing with Chief Tidwell in order to work with Western states to find common ground. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
09.16.2015	09.16.15 Gardner Testifies on EPA's Unacceptable Animas River Spill Response “Once the national press disappears from the area, there are still serious concerns that exist for Coloradans and communities downstream that the EPA must address.” Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) testified in front of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee today on the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) unacceptably slow response to its spill of contaminated wastewater into the Animas River last month: Click here to watch the video. KEY EXCERPT: Affected communities and stakeholders deserve transparency and accountability in the events surrounding this spill, particularly in understanding where EPA was during the first hours following the spill. For example, the Colorado Department of Public Health & the Environment was the first to notify the City of Durango of the Gold King release on August 5th. The Colorado Department of Natural Resources was the first to notify the Southern Ute Indian Tribe of the release on August 5th. The La Plata County Sheriff closed public access to the Animas River on August 6th. Where was the EPA during this initial notification and closure of the River? Did the agency follow the national contingency plan for notification and implementation of its response on this disaster? Was there anyone within the EPA with crisis management experience for a spill of this nature dispatched to the area or made aware of the spill? REMARKS AS PREPARED: Thank you Chairman Inhofe, Ranking Member Boxer and other members of the Environment and Public Works Committee for holding this oversight hearing to examine the August 5th, 2015, spill that took place at the Gold King Mine in Southwest Colorado. I also appreciate the Committee for providing Senators Bennet, Heinrich, Udall and me with the opportunity to make statements about the impact this spill has in our states. We must also remember this spill had an impact on the Southern Ute Indian Tribe, Ute Mountain Ute, and the Navajo Nation. From the outset of the spill, it was crucial that the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) full focus be on mitigation and slowing the flow of contaminants in the Animas River. Water testing shows that the surface water of the River has returned to pre-incident levels, but many uncertainties remain regarding long-term remediation and future monitoring for heightened contamination in the River during spring runoff. Once the national press disappears from the area, there are still serious concerns that exist for Coloradans and communities downstream that the EPA must address. Although the EPA has acknowledged the magnitude of the crisis, its initial lack of communication and coordination in events leading up to and following the spill are suitable for congressional oversight. Affected communities and stakeholders deserve transparency and accountability in the events surrounding this spill, particularly in understanding where EPA was during the first hours following the spill. For example, the Colorado Department of Public Health & the Environment was the first to notify the City of Durango of the Gold King release on August 5th. The Colorado Department of Natural Resources was the first to notify the Southern Ute Indian Tribe of the release on August 5th. The La Plata County Sheriff closed public access to the Animas River on August 6th. Where was the EPA during this initial notification and closure of the River? Did the agency follow the national contingency plan for notification and implementation of its response on this disaster? Was there anyone within the EPA with crisis management experience for a spill of this nature dispatched to the area or made aware of the spill? These are but a few of the questions I hope Administrator McCarthy will address. In the first few days following the spill, it was largely state, local and tribal officials responding. It was not until August 10th that the EPA established a unified command center in Durango. Along with the confusion over EPA’s lack of notification, frustration began regarding the need for a timely release of a simple, straightforward interpretation of the water quality monitoring data from the EPA. My personal experience with EPA’s response mirrors that of local communities. No one from EPA attempted to contact me until days after the spill. Upon first learning of the spill I attempted to speak with the Administrator but was told she was unavailable. After pushing back on the EPA and requesting answers I was told the regional director would contact me. That call came several hours later. I visited the spill sight on August 9th with Senator Bennet. This was four days after the 3 million gallons of contaminated water was released, and yet EPA did not yet have an appropriate crisis response plan or team in place. From the outset I’ve said that EPA should be held to the same standard as EPA would hold a private company for said spill. Which means investigations must be conducted, people must be held accountable and tough questions must be asked. Among the tough questions that must be asked, a few I have are: Whether the EPA knew that it was likely that water was impounded behind the Gold King Mine portal and a blowout was possible? Whether the Health and Safety Plan for the Gold King Mine work was adequate? It appears the plan was wholly inadequate because it fails to address safety risks associated with mines, and it even lists the site by the wrong name at one point. Why did it take several days for the EPA to revise the amount of contaminated water? The agency initially said the amount was 1 million gallons and several days later said the surge consisted of 3 million gallons. Mr. Chairman, before concluding I request that the statement of Mike Olguin, a Southern Ute Indian Tribal Council Member, be included as part of my testimony for today’s hearing. Councilman Olguin will be testifying this afternoon in front of the Senate Indian Affairs Committee on the Gold King Mine spill. Lastly, I thank you and your staff for being responsive during this time and while this hearing is to examine this incident and EPA’s response, this spill shows a greater need for legislation that would allow Good Samaritans the opportunity to assist with cleaning up these abandoned mines across the West. I hope we can continue to work together on this effort. Thank you again for the opportunity to be here and I look forward to hearing the EPA’s answers as we continue to work together to address this very serious situation. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
09.11.2015	09.11.15 Gardner Marks Anniversary of September 11th Attacks Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following video statement today commemorating the 14th anniversary of the September 11th, 2001 terrorist attacks: Click here to watch the full statement. FULL TRANSCRIPT: Hi, I’m Cory Gardner, your Senator from the great state of Colorado. Today is September 11th, and it’s the 14th anniversary of the deadly, cowardly terrorist attacks that forever changed our country. When those attacks occurred, I’ll never forget -- I was on an airplane when the pilot announced that there had been an attack on the World Trade Center and we were turned around by the FAA. In the following days I was trying to get back to work. I’ll never forget the time I was listening to President Bush’s first words, some of the first words he issued after the attacks. I was driving a car on the interstate in Kansas and I became so emotional listening to the President’s words I realized that I probably shouldn’t be driving, so I pulled over to listen. And when the President finished his speech, I looked up, and every other car on the road had pulled over as well, all listening to our Commander-in-Chief console the people of the United States. Every American who remembers that day has their own story of what they felt, what they saw, and what we lost. Today, we still face the challenge of fighting international terror. Organizations spanning multiple countries and continents still seek to do America harm. We must be vigilant. We must be watchful. And we must remain ever-dedicated to ensuring the safety of our country. So I hope you will take a moment today to reflect on this somber anniversary. Pray for the lives of those we lost. Pray for the families who lost loved ones. And remind yourself once more to never forget September 11th. Thank you for watching. May God bless you, your family, and may God always bless the United States of America. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
09.10.2015	09.10.15 Gardner, Tipton Reject Guantanamo Detainees in Colorado Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Congressman Scott Tipton (R-CO) released the following statements today denouncing reports that officials within Obama Administration have considered closing the Guantanamo Bay Detention Facility and potentially relocating detainees to the United States Penitentiary in Florence, Colorado: “I oppose absolutely any plan to bring terrorists to Colorado,” Gardner said. “The Guantanamo facility houses some of the world’s worst international terrorists, and it’s critical that we keep them there. That this reckless and irresponsible idea is being considered at all by officials in the Obama Administration shows a careless disregard for the safety and security of Coloradans. I will do everything in my power to ensure it does not happen.” “Transferring some of the world’s most dangerous terrorists to our backyard places a target on Colorado,” said Tipton. “Any plan to move terrorists from Guantanamo Bay to Colorado is unacceptable and we will do everything possible to keep it from happening.” ###
09.10.2015	09.10.15 Gardner Speaks Out Against Iran Deal on Senate Floor “The only element of bipartisanship on the Senate floor today is the opposition.” Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) took to the Senate floor today to denounce the President’s bad deal with Iran and lay out many of the troubling aspects contained within: Click here to watch. KEY EXCERPTS: “This doesn’t end the nuclear program as the President stated was his goal, it continues it. It paves a patient pathway to an industrial nuclear complex in Iran. With the blessings of the world community, a flourishing economy, a lifting of the conventional arms embargo, a lifting of the ballistic missile embargo. And that’s a good deal for us?” “Since when did a bad option in the United States Senate become the only option in the United States Senate? Since when did the second, third, fourth, fifth best for this country, become the best for this country?” “We have heard talk over the past several days about status quo versus hypothetical. Well here is the status quo that we will be entering into: A status quo that in five years allows conventional arms sales to resume. A status quo that will allow ballistic missiles to resume in 8 years, and advanced centrifuge research to continue.” FULL RUSH TRANSCRIPT: Mr. President, I thank the chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee for his work to get us to this point. The countless hearings he has held, the briefings that we have had to fully understand the details, the fine details, and to scrutinize every aspect of the agreement that is now before us. I also thank the Ranking Member and the Senator from New Jersey as well for their tireless efforts on the Committee when it comes to the process that is before us. Mr. President, make no mistake there is not a single Member in this body, the United States Senate, the House of Representatives, the American public, I believe, indeed, that would complain about the President’s initial goals, the goals he laid out as recently as October of 2012 as he began negotiations with Iran. And I quote the President, “Our goal is to get Iran to recognize it needs to give up its nuclear program and abide by the U.N. Resolutions that have been in place. The deal we will accept is they end their nuclear program. It’s very straightforward.” But the deal we got from the Administration is anything but a straightforward ending of a nuclear program. I have listened very carefully to the hearings that we have held, I have listened to the classified briefings. I have studied the language of the text. Language that says things like, “Requests for access pursuant to the JCPOA will be made in good faith with due observance of the sovereign rights of Iran, and kept to the minimum necessary to effectively implement the verification responsibilities under this JCPOA.” Sen. Collins from Maine just a couple of days ago said it very well: “Not only will Iran retain its nuclear capability, but it will also be a far richer nation and one that has more conventional weapons technology than it possesses today.” This doesn’t end the nuclear program as the President stated was his goal, it continues it. It paves a patient pathway to an industrial nuclear complex in Iran. With the blessings of the world community, a flourishing economy, a lifting of the conventional arms embargo, a lifting of the ballistic missile embargo. And that’s a good deal for us? Over the last several days I have heard colleague after colleague come to the floor who is supporting this deal say things like “this deal is flawed”, “it’s not the best”, “it needs improvement.” Since when did a bad option in the United States Senate become the only option in the United States Senate? Since when did the second, third, fourth, fifth best for this country, become the best for this country? Several months ago, I had the opportunity, as have many colleagues, visit with Prime Minister Netanyahu to talk about the dance of porcupines created by entering this deal. The nuclear trip wire that will be set up because this does not end Iran’s nuclear program. But through this deal we have given up the golden nuggets of leverage that we had with Iran. Our leverage of sanctions that were beginning to work. In fact, the briefings that we all intended, where analysts have said our sanctions are eroding support for the regime daily, hurting their economy, devaluating their currency, bringing them to the table. And yet the deal that we have allows for continued uranium enrichment, repeal of U.N. Resolutions, removal of the Iran nuclear issue from their agenda. And that is the benefit of the bargain that the U.S. is about to enter into. We have heard talk over the past several days about status quo versus hypothetical. Well here is the status quo that we will be entering into: A status quo that in five years allows conventional arms sales to resume. A status quo that will allow ballistic missiles sales to resume in eight years, and advanced centrifuge research to continue. As the chairman of the Committee stated yesterday, talking about how one IR-8 centrifuge could replace vast numbers of the current centrifuges that they have today, that they will be allowed to keep, apparently all for radio isotype purposes. Why do they need ballistic missiles, conventional arms for radiation treatment? We’ve de-sanctioned and delisted numerous individuals, people who are the fathers of the Iranian nuclear program. A.Q. Khan of Iran. Delisted, de-sanctioned under this deal. Conglomerates of companies like EIKO are delisted, de-sanctioned under this deal. A group of companies that were sanctioned in 2003, not because of nuclear arms related issues, but because of their threat to the world financial system. That conglomerate is now de-sanctioned. Sure the United States gets to sanction them on their own, but as we have heard today, yesterday, the day before, sanctions the United States has apparently aren’t enough and that’s why we have to enter into this deal. Yet we have as Juan Zarate said, the sword of Damocles holding over the Iranians head the snapback provisions that apparently are good enough when we do them on our own. One of the things that hasn’t been talked about in the past several weeks is a letter that Secretary Kerry sent to every Senator, September 2nd, I think that was right around the same day that enough votes were achieved to block or to sustain the President’s veto. In the first paragraph of this letter that every Senator received there are two sentences that I want to make sure that everybody here recognizes. Again the letter from Secretary Kerry, “we share the concern expressed by many in Congress regarding Iran’s continued support for terrorists and proxy groups throughout the region, its propping up of the Assad regime in Syria, its effort to undermine the stability of its neighbors, and the threat it poses to Israel.” In the next sentence Secretary Kerry goes on to say, “we have no illusion that this behavior will change following implementation of the joint agreement.” We have no illusion that Iran’s behavior will change. That’s the status quo. The letter goes onto detail what we are going to do once this deal is entered in to. “Additional U.S. and Gulf Council countries, working groups, are focused on counterterrorism, military. The goal of building political support for multi-lateral ballistic missile defense cooperation.” So we are going to enter into some deals to fight ballistic missiles that this deal allows in eight years. The letter goes on to say, “we will push back against Iran’s arms transfers.” Conventional arms embargo is lifted in five years. The letter then goes on to say, “that we will work on missile technology control regimes, guidelines about the transfer of sensitive systems like ballistic missile technology.” And yet this deal allows ballistic missiles in eight years. “U.S. support for Israel and our Gulf partners has never been a partisan issue” the letter goes onto say, “and we believe these proposals would receive wide, bipartisan support.” Mr. President, this is a partisan deal with bipartisan opposition. And I would submit to you that the only element of bipartisanship on the Senate floor today is the opposition. And I urge my colleagues to vote to invoke cloture. The American people deserve to know where the United States Senate stands, and deserves to know where their Member of the Senate stands. Mr. President, I yield back by time. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
09.10.2015	09.10.15 Gardner: A Dangerous Deal With Bipartisan Opposition Gardner Reacts to Senate Democrats’ Filibuster of Iran Deal Vote Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the following statement after Democrats in the United States Senate blocked a vote on the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act through a filibuster: “It’s disgraceful and reckless that Senate Democrats denied the American people a voice in one of the most consequential foreign policy initiatives of our time,” said Gardner. “The Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act was supported by 98 Senators a few short months ago and signed into law by President Obama this past May, promising Americans that Congress would have the opportunity to review the President’s nuclear deal with Iran. For the same Senate Democrats who touted the importance of a thorough debate to reverse their position and obstruct the vote is shameful. This is a dangerous deal with bipartisan opposition, and I remain committed to working toward a solution that returns the President to the negotiating table.” Key points on the President’s nuclear deal with Iran: A lack of verification. The “anytime, anyplace” access to Iran’s nuclear facilities the Administration initially promised became “managed access” in the final agreement - meaning international inspectors must request permission from Tehran to inspect military facilities 24 days in advance. Congress is denied the full text of a secret side deal between Iran and the IAEA that will reportedly allow Iran to conduct “self-inspections” at certain facilities. The deal provides the regime with $100-$150 billion, allowing Iran to double down on its terrorism activities, including its support for Hezbollah, Hamas, and the murderous Assad regime in Syria. It lifts sanctions on entities such as EIKO, a vast conglomerate of companies controlled by Ayatollah Khamenei, estimated at nearly $100 billion. Also, the deal lifts sanctions on international nonproliferation violators, including Mohsen Fakhrizadeh-Mahabadi, known as the “father” of the Iranian nuclear program. The deal lifts the small arms embargo on the Iranian Regime after just five years, and the ballistic missile embargo after just eight years. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
09.04.2015	09.04.15 Gardner Statement on Interior EA Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today reacted to the Department of Interior’s (DOI) environmental assessment (EA) on the Colowyo mine, which indicated that the mine has no significant environmental impact. This clears the way for continued operations at the mine. In February of 2013, Wildearth Guardians sued DOI in the Colorado Federal District Court, stating that the environmental assessment required by the National Environmental Policy Act was insufficient. The court sided with Wildearth Guardians and gave DOI 120 days to complete a new environmental assessment. If DOI failed to meet its deadline, the mine would shut down. “I am pleased that the Department of the Interior met the Colorado Federal District Court’s deadline and reached a conclusion that allows for the Colowyo mine to keep its doors open,” said Gardner. “An economic engine for Northwest Colorado, the Colowyo mine supports more than 200 jobs, produces $165 million in economic activity annually, and provides affordable energy to not only the region, but neighboring states. Now that the DOI has met the court’s deadline, the hardworking Colowyo employees should be able to get back to work immediately.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
08.28.2015	08.28.15 Gardner Applauds Decision Blocking Federal Water Rule Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) applauded the decision today by Federal Judge Ralph Erickson halting the implementation of the Obama Administration’s controversial “Waters of the United States” rule. The rule would drastically expand the federal government’s authority in regulating waterways and poses a significant threat to Colorado’s economy and Coloradans’ water rights. “This water rule, if implemented, would absolutely drown Colorado communities in federal red tape,” Gardner said. “I am grateful for Judge Erickson’s decision, and agree wholeheartedly with his conclusion that this rule risks irreparable harm to the states it affects. The federal government should not be in the business of regulating tiny ponds, ditches, and intermittent streams when states and localities are in a better position to do so. “This ruling is not the end of the fight against a federal takeover of America’s waterways. I will continue to support efforts to block this rule and its disastrous consequences for Colorado’s economy.” ###
08.28.2015	08.28.15 Gardner Welcomes Hearing on Animas River Spill Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) welcomed the announcement today that the Senate Environment and Public Works (EPW) Committee will be holding a hearing, with Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Gina McCarthy as the witness, on the EPA’s spill of contaminated wastewater into the Animas River. The announcement follows a letter sent by Gardner and Senators Michael Bennet (D-CO), Tom Udall (D-NM), and Martin Heinrich (D-NM) requesting a hearing. “I appreciate the Environment and Public Works Committee holding this oversight hearing,” Gardner said. “The EPA caused this spill, and their completely inadequate response has left Coloradans with more questions than answers. I’m continuing to closely monitor the situation in the Animas River and surrounding communities, and I look forward to hearing answers from the EPA.” ###
08.19.2015	08.19.15 Colorado, New Mexico, Utah Senators Demand Answers in EPA Investigation of Mine Spill Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Senator Michael Bennet (D-CO), Senator Tom Udall (D-NM), Senator Martin Heinrich (D-NM), Senator Mike Lee (R-UT), and Senator Orrin Hatch (R-UT) announced today that they have sent a letter to Arthur A. Elkins, Inspector General of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), demanding answers to several pressing questions related to the EPA’s spilling of wastewater into the Animas River. The letter reads, in full: Dear Inspector General Elkins: We welcome the announcement that the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) Office of Inspector General (OIG) will conduct a preliminary inquiry into the Gold King Mine spill that occurred this month in southwest Colorado, and request that the scope of the report includes the specific questions listed in this letter. It is our belief that there was a lack of transparency, coordination, and communication in the events leading up to and following EPA’s spill of approximately three million gallons of contaminated water into Cement Creek and the Animas River. The EPA’s actions at the Gold King Mine were intended to reduce the continual flow of acid mine drainage from mine sites in the Animas River basin. Communities in the basin have long sought solutions to improve water quality. But clearly, the EPA’s execution of this project fell far short of the standards to which any cleanup operation should adhere. The release of contaminated water from this legacy mine has polluted the Animas River in Colorado and spread through New Mexico, Utah, the Southern Ute Indian Reservation, and the Navajo Nation. Although the EPA has taken responsibility for this disaster, the OIG investigation and report will assist in determining the details of the accident, provide a better opportunity to improve future remediation projects, and prevent spills of this nature at other legacy mines across the West. We, therefore, respectfully request the following be included in a report on the events surrounding the Gold King Mine spill: 1. Details on the work EPA was conducting at the Gold King Mine prior to the spill on August 5, 2015; 2. Details of the expertise of the EPA employees and contractors carrying out that work; 3. Criteria EPA would apply before approving a contractor for a similar cleanup performed by a private party and whether EPA applied the same criteria to itself; 4. EPA’s legal obligations and current policies and guidelines on reporting a release of a hazardous substance; 5. EPA’s legal obligations and current policies and guidelines on contacting tribal, state and local government agencies when the agency creates a release of a hazardous substance; 6. Whether EPA followed its legal obligations, current policies and guidelines in this particular spill at Gold King Mine; 7. Whether EPA’s current policies and guidelines are adequate to ensure compliance with legal requirements and to keep tribal, state and local agencies adequately informed regarding a release of hazardous substances; 8. Whether the delay in providing information to tribal, state and local agencies created any health risk or delayed emergency responses from those agencies; 9. EPA’s policies regarding indemnification of contractors and whether indemnification has any impact on the standard of care taken during response activities; 10. A timeline of actions and internal and external communications by EPA in the hours and days immediately following the release; 11. Whether, given known concerns that work at the Red and Bonita Mine could increase water in the Gold King Mine, EPA took appropriate care to determine water levels in the Gold King Mine before removing rock from the portal; 12. Whether EPA should have conducted pressure tests on the trapped water behind the mine pool before attempting to open the Gold King Mine as was done at the Red and Bonita Mine in 2010; and 13. What additional policies should be in place to safeguard against future spills at abandoned mine sites during remediation projects. Including these questions in an OIG report, along with a full investigation of the Gold King Mine accident, will help prevent future spills of this magnitude and ensure that recovery for tribal, state and local economies is expeditiously put on the best path forward. Thank you for your attention and consideration of this request. The full signed letter can be found here. ###
08.19.2015	08.19.15 Gardner Meets with Republic of Korea President Park Geun-hye Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy, announced that he met with the President of the Republic of Korea (ROK), Park Geun-hye, in Seoul earlier today as part of an official trip to countries in East Asia. President Park assumed office as the 11th President of the Republic of Korea in 2013, and is the first woman to hold that post. "The U.S.-ROK partnership is the bedrock of peace and security in East Asia,” Gardner said. “Ours is a historic partnership forged in blood, and maintaining and strengthening the U.S.-ROK alliance must be a primary goal of United States foreign policy in the region. “In our meeting, President Park and I discussed ways to strengthen the U.S.-ROK alliance, including promoting economic opportunity and enhancing military cooperation in the face of regional security threats such as North Korea. We touched on her upcoming visit to Washington in October, on which I look forward to greeting her. “I reiterated that the United States must have a consistent, focused engagement with our allies in East Asia that will provide economic opportunity and contribute to regional security and stability. I thanked President Park for her bold leadership and for the opportunity to advance the U.S.-ROK alliance, as well as her work to promote peace in East Asia. I will work hard to advance policies of consistent engagement with our strong allies in the Asia-Pacific region, such as the ROK.” ###
08.14.2015	08.14.15 Gardner Demands Administration Response to Iranian Belligerence Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) sent a letter today to President Obama laying out several recent instances of Iranian behavior violating international agreements and asking the President to respond with his Administration’s plan to hold the Iranian regime responsible for its repeated infractions. From General Qassem Soleimani travelling to Russia in violation of U.N. Sanctions to Iranian media reports of imminent ballistic missile tests, the Iranian regime appears to already be testing the limits of the weak nuclear agreement reached by the Administration. Additionally, statements this week by Secretary Kerry call into question the ability of the international community to hold Iran accountable for these and future violations. The letter reads, in full: Dear Mr. President: I am extremely concerned that the Islamic Republic of Iran has already engaged in multiple violations of the letter and the spirit of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), concluded by Iran and the P5+1 on July 14, 2015, and ask what actions the Administration intends to undertake to penalize Iran for these violations. On August 6, 2015, media reports indicated the General Qassem Soleimani, the commander of Iran’s Quds Force, traveled to Moscow to meet with Russian officials. This trip appears to be in violation of United Nations Security Council Resolution 1747, which imposed sanctions on Gen. Soleimani and other Iranian officials due to their ties to the Iranian nuclear and ballistic missile programs. As you know, the JCPOA envision an 8-year timeframe before any sanctions related to Iran’s ballistic missile program can be lifted. In addition to his illicit activities involving Iran’s nuclear and ballistic missile programs, General Soleimani led Iran’s efforts to supply explosive devices and other arms to Iraqi insurgents during the Iraq War. According to testimony of General Joseph Dunford, your nominee to lead the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Iran is responsible for about 500 deaths of U.S. military personnel. Furthermore, on August 13, 2015, Iranian media also reported that Iran plans to conduct a ballistic missile test “later this year”, in potential violation of the annex to UN Security Council Resolution 2231 that endorsed the JCPOA on July 20, 2015 and in which “Iran is called upon not to undertake any activity related to ballistic missiles designed to be capable of delivering nuclear weapons, including launches using such ballistic missile technology.” According to the Iranian press, “Iran says it has not accepted or endorsed the annex.” I am also troubled by Secretary Kerry’s comments to the press on August 11, 2015, when he stated that the arms embargo against Iran, which is due to be lifted in 5 years, “is not tied to snapback” of international sanctions and Iran would not be “in material breach of the nuclear agreement for violating the arms piece of it.” I find it bewildering that Iran’s compliance to this nuclear agreement will result in lifting of the arms embargo, yet the violations of the same embargo will not trigger the “snapback” of sanctions. I believe these alarming developments are a direct result of a weak agreement that your Administration negotiated that will only empower Iran to engage in activities that undermine international security without any real consequences. I ask that you reply in writing outlining the Administration’s proposed actions to hold Iran accountable for the violations listed above and how the Administration intends to treat such incidents in the future. I look forward to your prompt response. ###
08.11.2015	08.11.15 Gardner, Bennet, Tipton Request EPA Plan on Animas River Recovery Washington, DC – Following up on their earlier letter requesting that Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Gina McCarthy visit the site of the Animas River spill, Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Senator Michael Bennet (D-CO) and Representative Scott Tipton (R-CO) wrote to the EPA Administrator to request that the EPA establish and disclose its plan for the both the near-term cleanup of the recent release into the Animas River and a long-term plan to ensure economic and environmental recovery. The letter reads: Dear Administrator McCarthy: On August 5th, the work conducted by EPA at the Gold King Mine led to the release of approximately 3 million gallons of contaminated water and sediment into Cement Creek and the Animas River in southwest Colorado. Reports indicate that the mine is still leaking contaminated water and sediment into the river. Additionally, the toxic stream has now expanded across New Mexico and into Utah. We write to request that the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) establish and publicly disclose its plan for the near-term cleanup and mitigation of the Gold King Mine release. We believe a full emergency response team needs to be on the ground in Durango with adequate funding and staffing to respond to this disaster. In addition, we request that the EPA release a long-term plan to ensure full economic and environmental recovery of the affected area. The cleanup and mitigation plan should include information on what short and long term water quality tests the EPA will conduct on the Animas River and surrounding watersheds, how often samples will be taken, and when the fully-interpreted, toxicologically-relevant results will be released to the public. These water quality test results need to be publicized and include information on the effects on humans, wildlife, and livestock as well as municipal water supplies and agricultural users. In addition, in the long-term, the EPA needs to complete a risk assessment regarding the possibility of future mine blowouts and a plan for handing such a spill if it occurs. Even though EPA has announced a claims process for compensating citizens who suffer injury or property damage, the EPA should ensure that such compensation also includes assistance to individuals, local businesses, and agricultural producers who have lost significant revenue or taken significant losses due to this tragedy. This should include a system for state, tribal, county, and city officials to seek reimbursement for expenditures they have incurred as the result of the toxic release. Finally, EPA should commit to covering costs sustained by non-profits who have conducted water quality sampling and other services related to mitigating this disaster. The Animas River is the lifeblood and economic driver of La Plata and San Juan Counties. We would appreciate your agency providing all of the resources possible so that the affected communities can begin to recover. Thank you for your attention and consideration. ###
08.11.2015	08.11.15 Gardner Blasts EPA on Animas Spill Response, Calls for Congressional Oversight Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the following statement on the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) response to the 3-million gallon spill of pollutants into the Animas River: “It’s outrageous, reckless, and unacceptable that it’s been seven days since the EPA released three million gallons of toxic waste into the Animas River and the federal agency still has few answers. That is why I am requesting Congressional oversight hearings to examine the EPA’s insufficient response and to ensure that the EPA is held to the same recovery standards as the private sector. “Although the EPA has finally acknowledged the magnitude of the crisis, its ongoing lack of communication and coordination must be rectified. The local communities and industries that rely on the river for their livelihoods deserve transparency, accountability, and an explanation that is far-past due.” ###
08.11.2015	08.11.15 Gardner, Bennet, Tipton Request EPA Administrator Visit Animas River Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Senator Michael Bennet (D-CO) and Representative Scott Tipton (R-CO) sent a letter today to Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Gina McCarthy, requesting that she visit San Juan and La Plata Counties in Colorado to discuss the damage done by the EPA’s accidental release of contaminated waste water into the Animas River. The letter reads: Dear Administrator McCarthy, We write to request that you visit San Juan and La Plata Counties in Colorado and host a public meeting to help explain the impacts of the Gold King Mine accident on the surrounding communities and listen to our constituents’ concerns. Local residents, recreationalists, and business owners need to know that EPA will commit to a full cleanup of the accident and work to ensure the full environmental and economic recovery of the affected area. To date, at least 3 million gallons of contaminated waste water from the abandoned Gold King Mine have spilled into Cement Creek and the Animas River in southwestern Colorado. Residents remain uncertain as to the dangers posed by this spill, as well as the timeline and recovery plan EPA intends to execute. Gaining an on-the-ground understanding of the situation is important to EPA’s response and area residents and officials would appreciate your in-person commitment to an expeditious and thorough cleanup and recovery. The individuals, families, and businesses impacted by EPA’s accident deserve nothing less. We look forward to welcoming you to Colorado and appreciate your prompt response. ###
08.07.2015	08.07.15 Gardner Statement on Animas River Spill Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement today on the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) accidental release of contaminated mine water from the Gold King Mine into the Animas River: “It is critical during the first hours of clean-up that the full attention of the EPA be focused on mitigation and stopping the flow of contaminants. I’ve spoken to EPA representatives and called on them to share with state, local, and tribal officials all information necessary to ensure the safety of the public, including the results of their testing and sampling. “Many questions remain about the cause of the spill and the way information was released to impacted communities. I look forward to hearing the EPA’s answers as we work together to address this very serious situation. Coloradans deserve to know the EPA’s plan for cleaning up the mess they’ve made and their plan for the long term restoration of the river habitat impacted." ###
08.07.2015	08.07.15 Gardner-Backed Commercial Space Launch Act Passes Senate Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement today following the Senate’s passage this week, by unanimous consent, of the U.S. Commercial Space Launch Competitiveness Act: “Colorado’s space industry is strong and growing, and the Commercial Space Launch Competitiveness Act contains several key provisions which ensure the continued viability of the commercial space sector. The Act extends the operation of the International Space Station, provides a commonsense regulatory environment for commercial space companies to operate in, and provides suitable oversight of the commercial development of space. That’s why I was an original sponsor of this legislation, and why I fought so hard to get it through the committee process and onto the floor of the Senate for passage. “I’m absolutely committed to making Colorado a national leader in aerospace. This Act ensures that Colorado companies, already some of the best commercial space ventures in the world, can continue to develop the technology and create the jobs that make us that national leader. I’m glad that the Senate passed this Act, and I look forward to it being signed into law." ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
08.07.2015	08.07.15 Gardner-Backed Commercial Space Launch Act Passes Senate Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement today following the Senate’s passage this week, by unanimous consent, of the U.S. Commercial Space Launch Competitiveness Act: “Colorado’s space industry is strong and growing, and the Commercial Space Launch Competitiveness Act contains several key provisions which ensure the continued viability of the commercial space sector. The Act extends the operation of the International Space Station, provides a commonsense regulatory environment for commercial space companies to operate in, and provides suitable oversight of the commercial development of space. That’s why I was an original sponsor of this legislation, and why I fought so hard to get it through the committee process and onto the floor of the Senate for passage. “I’m absolutely committed to making Colorado a national leader in aerospace. This Act ensures that Colorado companies, already some of the best commercial space ventures in the world, can continue to develop the technology and create the jobs that make us that national leader. I’m glad that the Senate passed this Act, and I look forward to it being signed into law." ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
08.06.2015	08.06.15 Gardner Moves to Protect and Arm Military Recruiters Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today that he has signed on as a co-sponsor to the Securing Military Personnel Response Firearm Initiative (SEMPER FI) Act introduced by Senator Steve Daines (R-MT). The Act would allow the military to authorize recruiters to be armed while at recruitment centers and allows for improvements in the security of those centers. The carrying of a sidearm would be limited to officers and non-commissioned officers (NCOs). The SEMPER FI Act has been endorsed by both the National Rifle Association and the Gun Owners of America. “Our men and women in uniform are among the most highly trained and skilled users of firearms in the world,” Gardner said. “It’s time for the nonsensical prohibition on officers carrying sidearms at recruitment centers to come to an end. Such a ban does nothing to keep military recruiters safe, but instead disarms the very people best qualified to help avert a tragedy. The right to keep and bear arms is cherished and enjoyed by millions of Americans, and depriving our military officers of that same right is wrong and counterproductive. I’m pleased to co-sponsor this commonsense legislation, and look forward to working towards its passage." ###
08.05.2015	08.05.15 Gardner Responds to FBI Alert in Colorado Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the following statement in response to reports that the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) has issued an alert regarding incidents that “have been reported to the FBI throughout June 2015.” The FBI report goes on to say “on numerous occasions, family members of military personnel were confronted by Middle-Eastern males in front of their homes." “I am alarmed by reports out of Denver that military members’ families have been harassed outside their homes and may be under surveillance,” Gardner said. “This news comes less than two weeks after FBI Director James Comey, speaking in Denver, warned of the heightened threat from the Islamic State that Colorado specifically faces. The FBI has now alerted all Colorado law enforcement agencies, and my office is in contact with the appropriate officials. I will continue to closely monitor the situation, and I encourage Coloradans to report suspicious behavior to the FBI.” The alert issued by the FBI directs Coloradans who have been approached or witness suspicious behavior to contact the FBI Fort Collins Resident Agency at (970) 663-1028. ###
08.05.2015	08.05.15 Gardner Leads Bipartisan Group of Senators in Urging Colleagues to Join Effort to Provide Life-Saving Treatment to Epilepsy Patients Washington, DC – Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO), Lamar Alexander (R-TN), Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Michael Bennet (D-CO), Orrin Hatch (R-UT), Johnny Isakson (R-GA), Ron Johnson (R-WI), Jeff Merkley (D-OR), and Ron Wyden (D-OR) sent a letter urging their colleagues to join them in sponsoring the Therapeutic Hemp Medical Access Act of 2015, legislation that provides children and their families with access to life-saving seizure treatment. The Therapeutic Hemp Medical Access Act removes the outdated federal prohibition on harmless cannabidiol (CBD) oil – a non-psychoactive hemp extract with anticonvulsant properties – and leaves it up to the states to determine whether to allow access to CBD. Fifteen states, including Texas, Georgia, Virginia, Wisconsin, and Tennessee, have recently enacted laws that specifically allow access to CBD for seizures. Medicinal oils derived from CBD-rich hemp plants are administered orally and, when taken regularly, can save the lives of children with intractable epilepsy. In the letter, the bipartisan group of Senators tell the story of Charlotte Figi, a young Coloradan diagnosed with Dravet’s syndrome. All of the traditional medical treatments had failed her, but CBD reduced her nearly 300 grand mal seizures per week to almost zero. The letter reads, in part: “Those states that allow access to CBD have already recognized what Congress has not: CBD is not a psychotropic drug, nor is it recreational or medical marijuana. CBD is a harmless, natural oil extracted from hemp that should never have been classified as a controlled substance. “Families should not have to choose between breaking the law and watching their loved ones suffer. S. 1333 is bipartisan legislation that has the support of nine of your colleagues. We hope you will recognize that taking immediate action will help so many while hurting no one.” The full text of the letter can be found here. ###
08.03.2015	08.03.15 Gardner Announces Evaluation Committee to Fill Colorado Judgeship Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today announced a Judicial Evaluation Committee that will begin vetting applicants for an upcoming vacancy on the U.S. District Court of Colorado. In April 2016, Judge Robert Blackburn will take senior status, creating a vacancy on the seven-judge bench. The number of judgeships on the court has remained the same for over 30 years, despite the state’s population growing by 65 percent and judicial workload steadily increasing. Now the court is one of the busiest in the country, with over 600 weighted cases per judgeship. Filling this vacancy quickly would keep the District Court fully staffed and at least maintain the status quo. Gardner’s committee will aid in that endeavor by identifying and recommending outstanding legal professionals who are qualified to fill the role. Convening this committee now ensures there is adequate time to complete a thorough review of qualified candidates before the vacancy occurs. The members of the Committee are leading experts in their field and represent critical segments of the Colorado bar. They will use a transparent, deliberative process to review applications, interview candidates, and recommend outstanding individuals in order to find the best person for the job as quickly as possible. “I take my responsibility to recommend Colorado judicial nominees to the President seriously and there is particular urgency in filling this vacancy,” said Gardner. “I am confident that the members of the Committee, who are some of Colorado’s finest legal experts, will thoroughly review all applications and make careful recommendations based on each applicant’s merits and qualifications. I encourage Coloradans interested in serving on the District Court to submit an application, and I look forward to seeing the Committee’s recommendations.” Those interested in applying for the vacancy must submit an application, which is available online here. Completed applications must be received by September 12, 2015 and can be submitted by email to ColoradoVacancy@gmail.com or by mail at the following address: Office of Senator Cory Gardner Attn: Judicial Evaluation Committee 999 18th Street Suite 1525 Denver, CO 80202 The Judicial Evaluation Committee consists of the following individuals: Jon Anderson, (Chair) Holland and Hart Michael O'Donnell, Wheeler Trigg O'Donnell Raymond M. Deeny, Sherman and Howard Robert Miller, Perkins Coie Judge Gary M. Jackson, Denver County Court Troy Eid, Greenberg Traurig Christine Mastin, Mastin Bergstrom Jason Dunn, Brownstein Hyatt Farber & Schreck Elizabeth Espinosa Krupa, Elizabeth Espinosa Krupa LLC Rob Witwer, Southwest Generation Katherine Yarger, Gibson Dunn & Crutcher
07.30.2015	07.30.15 Gardner Language Benefitting Colorado Included in Federal Energy Bill Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced that three energy bills he previously introduced were included in the base text of the Energy Policy Modernization Act, which passed by a bipartisan 18-4 vote of the Energy Committee today. Additionally, Senator Gardner announced that three amendments he authored were also adopted by the committee. “These bills and amendments lead to more energy efficiency, more energy generation, and more jobs in the energy sector,” Gardner said. “Promoting energy efficiency and clean alternative power sources has been a focus of my entire life in public service, and I’m pleased to have the chance to continue shaping federal energy policy in the Senate.” Gardner's first bill, the Energy Savings Through Public-Private Partnerships Act of 2015, would encourage the use of Energy Savings Performance Contracts (ESPCs) and Utility Energy Savings Contracts (UESCs) in federal buildings. ESPCs and UESCs are innovative public-private partnerships in which private companies use their own money and resources to make energy efficiency upgrades to federal buildings. The private companies receive a portion of money saved as a result of the increased efficiency in federal buildings. The second bill, the Reliable Investment in Vital Energy Reauthorization Act (RIVER Act), would reauthorize an existing Department of Energy program which provides funding to retrofit existing dams and river conduits with electricity-generating technology. According to DOE reports, there are up to 12 gigawatts of untapped hydropower development within the nation’s existing dam infrastructure, and only three percent of the United States’ 80,000 dams are used to generate clean hydroelectric power. The third bill, which Senator Gardner co-led with Senator Barrasso (R-WY), is the LNG Permitting Certainty and Transparency Act. This legislation would expedite the approval of liquefied natural gas (LNG) export applications, helping supply our allies overseas with a secure energy source, and creating American jobs. Additionally, Gardner introduced three amendments which were adopted into the legislation. The first amendment commissions a study of the feasibility and potential benefits of an energy-water center of excellence within the Department of Energy's National Laboratories. A center of excellence would aid in efforts to establish a comprehensive approach for managing energy and water resources in the future. The second amendment clarifies that oilseed crops qualify for the same research provisions in the bill as biomass. Meeting future demand for energy and fuel will require a variety of sources, and science and research indicates that oilseed crops have the potential to play a significant role. Oilseeds could hold the key to providing safe, clean energy that’s water-efficient; a key for the increasingly drought-ridden west. The third amendment, which Gardner co-authored with Senator Heinrich (D-NM), would allow the Secretary of Energy to establish “microlabs”, or smaller facilities which would be connected to an existing national lab. This amendment would help bring the important research and innovation being done by our national laboratories closer to where business owners, local governments, and communities can access them. ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
07.30.2015	07.30.15 Gardner Advances Colorado Priorities in Highway Bill Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement today following the Senate’s passage of a bipartisan, long-term highway bill: “As Colorado’s first Senator in nearly 40 years to serve on the Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee, I was excited to ensure that Colorado has the voice it deserves on transportation. In this bill, the longest-term highway bill the Senate has passed in nearly a decade, I was able to secure numerous provisions that pave the way for Colorado’s transportation future. “Advancing the expansion of North I-25, ensuring that Colorado’s fast-growing population is properly prioritized, and developing new and innovative technology are some of my top transportation priorities. We were able to make progress on all of them in the bill passed by the Senate today. While an agreement between the House and the Senate on a long-term bill has yet to be reached, I look forward to advocating for Colorado every single step of the way." ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. 354 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
07.23.2015	07.23.15 Gardner: Americans Deserve Truth About OPM Hack Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement today following reports that the Obama Administration is declining to publicly condemn and appropriately punish the perpetrators and state sponsors of the massive data breaches of the Office of Personnel Management (OPM): “From the beginning, the Obama Administration has not been honest with the American people about this hack,” Gardner said.“They repeatedly downplayed the number of Americans affected. They claimed that no one at OPM is responsible for millions of Americans having their data stolen. And while Administration officials have readily admitted to reporters on background that entities tied to the Chinese government are responsible for the breach, they refuse to do so directly to the American people. It is outrageous that we have not elevated this issue with the highest levels of the Chinese government, nor imposed any punitive measures on entities responsible. “I sent a letter earlier this month to the President demanding answers to several outstanding questions about this hack. Thus far, I have received no answers. The American people deserve the truth about this massive failure of federal cybersecurity. They deserve to know what’s being done to hold those who perpetrated it responsible. And they deserve to know what’s being done to prevent it from happening again.”
07.20.2015	07.20.15 Gardner on Iran UN Vote: "I condemn the Administration's action in the strongest possible terms." Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement today, following the United Nations Security Council’s vote in favor of a resolution creating the basis for lifting sanctions on Iran: “The Administration’s decision to take their Iranian nuclear agreement to the United Nations before any vote of the United States Congress is a grave mistake. This outrageous circumvention of the American people and our Constitution makes it clear that the Administration would rather run to international bureaucrats for rubber-stamped approval than make the case for their nuclear deal on its own merits. This vote sets the stage for UN Sanctions against Iran to be lifted and Iran’s considerable ledger of past violations of international law to be wiped clean. I condemn the Administration’s action in the strongest possible terms. “Until Congress has voted, the United States has not agreed to this deal. Yet the Administration has decided to take Congressional approval for granted and present this deal to the international community as a fait accompli. Following up on their seemingly endless concession-granting to the Iranians in Vienna, this action is part of a continuing, disturbing pattern: mislead the Congress, avoid the eyes of the American people, and use all extraconstitutional actions possible to ensure that a deal - any deal - is passed. “This must end. The American people and their representatives in Congress have a full 60 days to review this deal. The Administration agreed to that time period when it signed the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act. Until that period has elapsed, and until the Congress has voted, it is imperative that President Obama and his Administration stop advancing this deal as if it already has the approval of the American people. “The Iranian regime has waited decades for the international nuclear legitimacy which the Obama Administration seems determined to grant them. They’ve waited years to receive the billions of dollars frozen in offshore accounts which they can use to fund international terror. And they’ve waited years for the arms embargo against them to be lifted, allowing them to buy yet more weapons for Hamas and Hezbollah to aim at Israel. Congress must fully review this agreement before the Administration grants Iran those concessions.”
07.18.2015	07.18.15 Gardner Language on Asia Engagement Passes as Part of NDAA Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy, announced today that language calling for increased U.S. commitment and engagement in the Asia-Pacific passed unanimously as an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). This success follows similar efforts by Senator Gardner, also enacted unanimously, as part of the Senate Budget Resolution and the State Department Reauthorization legislation in the Foreign Relations Committee last week. The language in the NDAA would require the President, within 120 days of enactment, to produce a comprehensive strategy for increased U.S. engagement in the Asia-Pacific region, including an accounting of resources to implement this important strategy. “On a wide variety of issues, from trade to national security, America stands to benefit from strengthened ties in the Asia-Pacific,”Gardner said. “I agree with the intent of the Administration’s “Asia pivot” policy, but I want this policy to be more than just words. This language would ensure that we have a comprehensive strategy for Asia engagement to help keep our focus on this important region, which will be critical for U.S. national and economic security for generations to come.” “I’m glad that this language was included in the critically important NDAA. I look forward to it being signed into law by the President.”
07.16.2015	07.16.15 President Obama Issues Disaster Declaration Following Gardner, Delegation Letter Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) welcomed the announcement today that President Obama has issued a major disaster declaration for the State of Colorado. The declaration releases Federal funds which will help communities in Baca, Elbert, El Paso, Fremont, Logan, Morgan, Pueblo, Saguache, Sedgwick, Washington, and Yuma Counties recover from severe storms and flooding earlier this year. “I’m pleased that the President made this declaration, and hopeful that it will aid in Colorado’s quick recovery from these damaging storms,” Gardner said. “Officials from our state and local communities have responded swiftly and taken effective measures, and this declaration will allow them to continue the recovery process.” Gardner, along with fellow Senator Michael Bennet (D-CO) and Representatives Tipton (R-CO), Buck (R-CO), and Lamborn (R-CO), had sent a letter to President Obama urging him to make this declaration after the storms, which preliminary damage assessments estimate caused nearly $20 million in damages. Read their full letter here.
07.16.2015	07.16.15 Bipartisan Education Bill Featuring Gardner Amendments Passes Senate Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) praised the passage today of the bipartisan Every Child Achieves Act. The Act, which passed by a large majority, includes three sections authored by Senator Gardner and one amendment which he co-sponsored with Senator Elizabeth Warren (D-MA). “The passage of the Every Child Achieves Act is an important step towards reforming the federal government’s role in education and returning control to where it belongs: our states and local communities,” Gardner said. “This bill goes a long way towards getting Congress out of the classroom, and it prevents the federal government from forcing Common Core into schools. “Members of both parties were able to come together to get this bill passed, and I’m proud to have offered language and amendments which were included in the final bill. Empowering parents, students, and teachers instead of federal bureaucrats is absolutely the key to building the education system America needs for the future.” Language authored by Senator Gardner and included in the Every Child Achieves Act include: - Expanding Concurrent and Dual Enrollment Amendment: Allows local educational agencies to use funds for concurrent enrollment and dual enrollment programs at eligible schools, enabling high school students to simultaneously receive college credit from courses taught by college-approved teachers in secondary education. Additionally, it requires a partnership between the school district and college or university to promote teacher professional development to ensure quality standards are being met and provides flexibility funds to cover expenses for concurrent enrollment including but not limited to tuition, mandatory fees, books, and required instructional material. The text of the amendment is available here. - Recognizing Charter Schools Amendment: Requires State Educational Agencies and local educational agencies to consult with public charter school representatives in the development of their Title I plan. Although Charter Schools are some of the highest performing schools in the country, they are not currently consulted during the development process while several other groups are consulted. The text of the amendment is available here. - STEM Skills Gaps Pilot Program Language: Creates a pilot program that provides grants to schools that want to alter their curriculum to close skills gaps in STEM fields identified by local Workforce Investment Boards (WIBs) - a network of federal, state and local offices that support economic expansion and development of talent in the nation’s workforce. This language, authored by Senator Gardner, was included in the underlying bill. The text of this language is available here. Additionally, Senator Gardner is a co-sponsor, along with Senator Warren (D-MA), of: - Data Transparency Amendment: Ensures that states provide academic assessment and graduation rate data in a way that can be easily cross-tabulated on their state report card sites for each subgroup of students, further disaggregated by race, gender, English proficiency, and disability. The ECAA already requires State Report Cards to include academic assessment and graduation rate data on subgroups, however oftentimes greater issues can be masked without further disaggregation. This amendment would give states the flexibility to decide to cross-tabulate additional subgroups of their choice, depending on the unique demographics of their state, to provide transparent information about where greater problems lie within a community where subgroups collide. The text of the amendment is available here.
07.14.2015	07.14.15 Gardner Announces More than $5 Million In FEMA Flood Recovery Grants Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today that the Federal Emergency Management Agency is awarding over $5 million in grants to the State of Colorado to aid in ongoing recovery efforts dating to the 2013 floods which devastated parts of the state. The grants, which are obligated directly to the State of Colorado, are both designated for road and bridge repair in Boulder County.
07.14.2015	07.14.15 Gardner Denounces Disastrous Iran Deal Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, released the following statement on the announcement of a nuclear agreement between the Obama Administration and the Iranian Regime: “The Administration has attempted to present Americans with a false choice: either you accept their bad deal with the murderous Iranian regime or else you’re in favor of another war in the Middle East. Nothing could be further from the truth. Initial reports about the content of the deal, which indicate the U.S. has agreed to lift the arms embargo against Iran even though the nation remains the largest state sponsor of terrorism in the world, are highly disturbing. The more details we learn about the deal, the worse it seems. “Reports indicate that this deal accomplishes none of the goals it should, nor the goals the negotiations began with. It would make Iran a globally approved nuclear threshold state. It would endanger our closest ally in the region, Israel. Its sanctions relief would give Iran billions to pour into continued international terror operations. And it would put the national security of the United States in jeopardy by starting a nuclear trip-wire in the Middle East. “At every turn, President Obama and the Administration have accommodated a murderous ruling regime led by a President who gladly marches at the front of parades chanting ‘Death to the USA’ and ‘Death to Israel’. This deal is unwise. For the sake of the region, and the sake of the world, it must be rejected.”
07.13.2015	07.13.15 Gardner Demands Answers on OPM Hack Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today that he has sent a letter to President Obama regarding the numerous unanswered questions that remain relating to the massive hack of federal employee information at the Office of Personnel Management. The letter details the scale of the hack and the Administration’s lack of response, and asks for answers to the following questions: 1) How soon after the discovery of the breach did the Administration positively identify the perpetrators and possible state sponsors? Why hasn’t the Administration publicly disclosed to date the identity of the perpetrators and whether they are tied to the [People’s Republic of China]? 2) If the PRC is involved, as reports suggest, why hasn’t the Administration held the PRC accountable through diplomatic actions? Has the State Department formally raised this issue with the PRC Ambassador to the United States? Was it raised at high levels during the U.S.-China Strategic and Economic Dialogue (S&ED) last month? If so, why wasn’t the OPM breach, or cybersecurity in general, among the 127 S&ED “outcomes”, which ranged from everything from wildlife trafficking to volcano studies? Will you commit to raising the OPM breach directly with President Xi during your upcoming bilateral summit September? 3) What is the Administration’s plan to hold these individuals or entities accountable, either through U.S. federal government indictments or imposition of U.S. sanctions? The full letter can be read here.
07.10.2015	07.10.15 Colorado Senators Team Up to Honor Rocky Mountain National Park Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Senator Michael Bennet (D-CO) announced today that the Senate has unanimously passed their resolution commemorating the 100th anniversary of Rocky Mountain National Park and declaring September 4, 2015 as Rocky Mountain National Park Day. “Rocky Mountain National Park is a national treasure, and the unanimous passage of this resolution by the United States Senate shows it,” Gardner said. “Over the past hundred years, the millions of Coloradan, American, and international visitors to Rocky have been struck by the park’s natural beauty, pristine wildernesses, and its diverse wildlife. Coloradans are committed to preserving and protecting Rocky, and making sure its next hundred years are as successful as its last.” “For the past century, Rocky Mountain National Park has served as an iconic landmark in Colorado,” Bennet said. “It offers some of the best scenic vistas, hiking, and wildlife viewing that our state has to offer. It’s no wonder it attracts millions of visitors every year, who in turn support our state’s tourism and outdoor recreation economy. Celebrating this centennial anniversary reminds us that protecting our public lands ensures that future generations will have the opportunity to enjoy them as we do.” The full text of the resolution is available here.
07.09.2015	07.09.15 Gardner Amendments Added to Education Bill Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today that two of the amendments he introduced to the Every Child Achieves Act have been adopted. The Every Child Achieves Act, which would reform the federal government’s role in education, is currently being debated by the Senate. The two amendments were adopted unanimously, and would help students gain college credit while in high school and give Charter Schools a seat at the table in developing education policy. Expanding Concurrent and Dual Enrollment Amendment: Allows local educational agencies to use funds for concurrent enrollment and dual enrollment programs at eligible schools enabling high school students to simultaneously receive college-credit from courses taught by college approved teachers in secondary education. Additionally, it requires a partnership between the school district and college or university to promote teacher professional development to ensure quality standards are being met and provides flexibility funds to cover expenses for concurrent enrollment including but not limited to tuition, mandatory fees, books, and required instructional material. The text of the amendment is available here. Recognizing Charter Schools Amendment: Requires State Educational Agencies and local educational agencies to consult with public charter school representatives in the development of their Title I plan. Although Charter Schools are some of the highest performing schools in the country, they are not currently consulted during the development process while several other groups are consulted. The text of the amendment is available here. Senator Gardner continues to push for education reforms which empower the states and local communities which know their own students best.
07.09.2015	07.09.15 Gardner Statement on Cuts to Fort Carson Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement today after news that Fort Carson will be reduced in size by approximately 365 soldiers in the latest round of cuts from the Department of Defense: "My repeated visits to Fort Carson, including one just last week, have emphasized to me the truly critical role that Fort Carson plays in ensuring troop readiness. I’ve been proud to deliver that message to military officials at every opportunity. While I am opposed to any reductions, I am glad that the cuts are limited and that the Army recognizes the importance of Fort Carson to its own mission. The Army considers Fort Carson an essential power projection platform, and its growth, from just under 14,000 soldiers in 2001 to over 23,000 today, reflects that assessment. “At a time when threats to global security require leadership by the United States, we have an obligation to provide an Army capable of defending U.S. interests and allies. I am appalled that the President has threatened to veto a defense bill authorizing the resources our nation requires for defense. I hope that he reconsiders this veto threat and works with Congress to maintain the United States military’s pre-eminence in the world.”
07.09.2015	07.09.15 Peters, Gardner Announce Effort to Shape Federal Research and Development Priorities WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Gary Peters (D-MI) and Cory Gardner (R-CO), members of the Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee, announced today that they will lead a series of discussion briefings to gather information from the U.S. science and research community and help shape federal research and development policy to improve American innovation and competitiveness, which was last authorized by the America COMPETES Act of 2010. “Basic research and development is the seed corn of our economy, and the innovation it generates helps build new industries, increase productivity and enhance American competitiveness,” said Senator Peters, Ranking Member of the Commerce Subcommittee on Space, Science and Competitiveness. “Research and development has had an enormous impact in Michigan, where research conducted in our world-class universities drives the creation of new businesses and new jobs across the state. I’m honored to work with Senator Gardner to lead this new bipartisan effort to strengthen innovation nationwide and support federal research investments that will grow our economy, build our skilled workforce and improve American competitiveness in the global marketplace.” “American innovation and our entrepreneurial spirit are what make this country great. That’s why it’s important that we foster those qualities through cutting-edge research and development initiatives, as well as improved STEM education programs to prepare the next generation of American innovators,” said Senator Gardner. “I look forward to working with Senator Peters as well as Chairman Thune, Ranking Member Nelson, and Senator Cruz toward our shared goal of updating and enhancing policy that strengthens our economy, creates good-paying jobs, and keeps America competitive.” Beginning in July, Peters and Gardner will bring together Commerce Committee members and representatives from academia, business, nonprofits and federal agencies to discuss American research and development (R&D) policy priorities previously authorized by the America COMPETES Act of 2010. Topics will include maximizing basic research; improving Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) education research and practices for students; and translating federal research results into innovative commercial applications that benefit economic growth and improve everyday lives. Previously, the America COMPETES Act authorized research priorities for several federal agencies, including the National Science Foundation (NSF), the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), the Department of Energy’s (DOE) Office of Science, the Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy (ARPA-E), and the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP). Peters previously helped enact the America COMPETES Act of 2010 as a member of the Science, Space and Technology Committee in the U.S. House of Representatives.
07.08.2015	07.08.15 Gardner Offers Provisions to Strengthen Every Child Achieves Act Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement today as the Senate begins consideration of the Every Child Achieves Act, bipartisan legislation that addresses the problems with No Child Left Behind by empowering the states with the authority to determine how to best improve student achievement: “Removing Congress from the classroom and providing states with greater authority and flexibility is central to improving academic success,” said Gardner. “The Every Child Achieves Act recognizes that, and the amendments I introduced and am supporting build upon its strengths. Collectively, these provisions make it easier for high school students to receive college credit, provide charter schools with a seat at the table in the plan development process, and extend flexibility to schools seeking to better prepare students for STEM-related careers. I look forward to an open and full debate.” Sen. Gardner has introduced the following amendments: Expanding Concurrent and Dual Enrollment Amendment: Allows local education agencies to use funds for concurrent enrollment and dual enrollment programs at eligible schools enabling high school students to simultaneously receive college-credit from courses taught by college approved teachers in secondary education. Additionally, it requires a partnership between the school district and college or university to promote teacher professional development to ensure quality standards are being met and provides flexibility funds to cover expenses for concurrent enrollment including but not limited to tuition, mandatory fees, books, and required instructional material. Recognizing Charter Schools Amendment: Requires State Educational Agencies and Local Educational Agencies to consult with public charter school representatives in the development of their Title I plan. Although Charter Schools are some of the highest performing schools in the country, they are not currently consulted during the development process while several other groups are consulted. STEM Skills Gaps Pilot Program Amendment: Creates a pilot program that provides grants to schools that want to alter their curriculum to close skills gaps in STEM fields identified by local Workforce Investment Boards (WIBs) - a network of federal, state and local offices that support economic expansion and development of talent in the nation’s workforce. Sen. Gardner is a cosponsor of the following amendments: Academic Partnerships Lead Us to Success Amendment: Provides states with greater flexibility to use federal education funds, reduces the administrative burden on state and local education agencies, and increases transparency about how federal education funds are used. Supporting Our English Learners Amendment: Provides funds for states to provide interpreters, translators and linguistically responsive materials for English learners. Data Transparency Amendment: Ensures that states publicly report academic assessment and graduation rate data on their state report card sites for each subgroup of students, further disaggregated by race, gender, English proficiency, and disability. The ECAA already requires State Report Cards to include academic assessment and graduation rate data on subgroups, however oftentimes greater issues can be masked without further disaggregation. This amendment would give states the flexibility to decide to cross-tabulate additional subgroups of their choice, depending on the unique demographics of their state, to provide transparent information about where greater problems lie within a community where subgroups collide.
06.25.2015	06.25.15 Gardner Statement on Supreme Court Decision in King v. Burwell Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement on the Supreme Court’s decision in the King v. Burwell case: “Obamacare began as partisan legislation hastily rammed through Congress without proper debate or consideration. The more than five years since its passage have been marked by policy cancellations, premium increases, and millions of Americans dissatisfied with the changes to the healthcare system. ”Today’s decision bails out the careless, reckless authors of a law that has done real damage to our healthcare system. Obamacare’s problems, however, are not merely the result of poor writing. Even if perfectly authored, a government takeover of healthcare would be the wrong prescription for America. I remain committed to repealing Obamacare and replacing it with commonsense reforms that control costs, expand access to care, and protect the doctor-patient relationship.”
06.24.2015	06.24.15 Gardner Applauds Passage of TPA Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement today following the Senate’s passage of Trade Promotion Authority (TPA) legislation: “Today’s vote is a victory for the hundreds of thousands of Coloradans whose jobs and livelihoods are already supported by trade, and the millions more who will benefit from increased trade. TPA empowers our negotiators to get the best deal possible for American workers, while imposing strict requirements for transparency and public oversight on any trade agreement reached. “Free markets and free trade are the greatest forces for positive change that exist in the world economy. Free trade agreements bring other countries up to American standards while breaking down barriers for American companies to sell their goods abroad. It strengthens our relationships with our allies and puts economic pressure on our rivals. “The passage of TPA is a victory for Colorado jobs and Colorado’s economy, and I look forward to seeing it signed into law.”
06.23.2015	06.23.15 Grassley, Gardner Introduce Bill to Give Rural Hospitals New Option to Stay Open, Maintain Emergency Rooms for Residents WASHINGTON – Sen. Chuck Grassley of Iowa and Sen. Cory Gardner of Colorado today introduced legislation to help rural hospitals stay open while meeting the needs of rural residents for emergency room care and outpatient services. “A tractor accident or a heart attack is dangerous under the best of circumstances, but it’s a lot more dangerous for someone who’s far away from an emergency room,” Grassley said. “When a rural hospital closes, its emergency room closes with it. This proposal will fill a pressing need, help keep hospital doors open, and offer hospital services where and when people need them most.” “Rural communities deserve the same access to emergency services as their urban counterparts,” said Gardner. “Following a traumatic injury, patients have a small window of time to reach services before their conditions begin to deteriorate severely. The REACH Act will expand access to emergency healthcare, and help keep life-saving medical facilities open in underserved areas that need them most.” The senators noted that 60 percent of trauma deaths in the United States occur in rural areas, where only 15 percent of the population is represented. The pace of rural hospital closures is accelerating, and many other hospitals that haven’t closed are struggling to keep their doors open. Under Medicare, many rural hospitals are designated as Critical Access Hospitals, meaning they have to maintain a certain amount of inpatient beds as well as an emergency room. Many hospitals struggle to attract enough inpatients to keep their Critical Access Hospital status. When they close their doors, it often means a community loses its emergency services. Studies show that proximity to an emergency room often means the difference between life and death. The Grassley-Gardner bill, the Rural Emergency Acute Care Hospital (REACH) Act, S. 1648, would create a new Rural Emergency Hospital classification under Medicare. The hospital would have an emergency room and outpatient services. It would not have the inpatient beds that many hospitals are struggling to maintain. For example, a patient in a rural hospital with kidney disease might go to his community hospital for dialysis as an outpatient service. He would go to a separate major hospital for specialized care such as a kidney operation. He would go to his community hospital for emergency care for an acute episode, when time is of the essence. The bill wouldn’t force any new requirements on hospitals. It simply would offer them a new option. The hospitals would have to maintain some protocols in exchange for removing inpatient services, such as being able to rapidly move a patient to a larger hospital elsewhere that offers more services. A white paper on the issues behind the bill is available here. A summary is available here. Grassley’s floor statement on the introduction is available here.
06.23.2015	06.23.15 Senators Unite to Save Colowyo Mine Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today that he, Senator John Barrasso (R-WY), Senator Mike Enzi (R-WY), and Senator Deb Fischer (R-NE) have sent a letter to the Secretary of the Interior Sally Jewell regarding the Colowyo Mine in Northwestern Colorado. The mine is threatened by a recent Federal Court decision which determined that the Office of Surface Mining (OSM) plan for the mine failed to comply with the National Environmental Policy Act. This decision threatens the continued operation of the mine, despite the fact that it previously obtained and has been operating under all necessary permits and regulations. The Senators’ letter requests that the Secretary hold a community meeting in Northwest Colorado to hear from those who would be affected by the mine’s closure, and asks that the Secretary appeal the Court’s decision. The letter reads, in part: Colowyo is vital to the regional economy, employing over 200 people at the mine and providing coal for electricity generation to our states. These employees, the surrounding communities, and businesses should be made aware of the agency’s plans and whether or not OSM will appeal the decision alongside Colowyo. As such, we encourage you to hold a community meeting in the region to start a discourse and ensure concerns are addressed. We would like to express our sincere appreciation for your actions thus far and request that you appeal the Court’s decision. Thank you for your time and attention, and we look forward to hearing back whether you will hold a community meeting in this region. . The full text of the letter can be read here.
06.23.2015	06.23.15 Gardner Votes For Colorado Jobs, Economic Prosperity Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement today following the Senate’s vote to advance Trade Promotion Authority (TPA): “Trade supports hundreds of thousands of good-paying jobs in Colorado. TPA provides Congress with the authority to approve high-quality trade deals that create jobs, break down barriers for American exporters, and put more goods stamped ‘Made in the USA’ on shelves overseas. Free trade deals enhance America’s standing in the world, building stronger alliances with our friends and putting economic pressure on our rivals. “TPA is the best path forward to finalizing transparent trade agreements that keep America competitive, strengthen our economy, and create better-paying jobs for Coloradans. Now, it’s the administration’s responsibility to negotiate a good deal and bring it before Congress and the American people for a full public vetting and a vote.” ###
06.22.2015	06.22.15 Gardner Applauds Withdrawal of Onerous Groundwater Rule Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) applauded today the United States Forest Service’s decision to formally withdraw its proposed groundwater directive. The directive, which would have drastically increased federal authority and regulation of groundwater in western states, had elicited concerns from non-partisan groups like the Western Governors’ Association (WGA) and National Water Resources Association (NWRA). In response to a question from Senator Gardner at an Energy and Natural Resources hearing in February about opposition to the directive from groups like the WGA and NWRA, Forest Service Chief Tom Tidwell announced that the rule had been put on hold, and that his agency would look to work with interested parties to craft better regulation. On June 19th, the Forest Service announced that the rule was being formally withdrawn. “I appreciate the Forest Service withdrawing its proposed directive.” Gardner said. “The directive was developed without sufficient input from Western states and stakeholders, and would have infringed on the water rights of states, agriculture, and private citizens.”
06.16.2015	06.16.15 Gardner Supports Measure To Combat Sexual Assault In The Military Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) voted in favor today of an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act offered by Senator Gillibrand (D-NY) to reform procedures for certain offenses related to sexual assault under the Uniform Code of Military Justice. The amendment was supported by a bipartisan group of Senators but failed to reach the 60-vote threshold for passage. “We must continue to combat sexual assault in our military,” Gardner said. “I recognize the effort that military leadership and our men and women in uniform have already undertaken to address these terrible crimes, and I commend their progress. Today’s vote offered us a chance to move even further towards the goal of eliminating sexual assault in the military. “America’s armed forces are the greatest in the world, and the men and women who serve are the reason why. As they protect America from threats at home and abroad, we must do our best to protect them from a judicial process that isn’t doing enough to keep them safe. That’s what today’s vote was about, and that’s why I was proud to support this amendment. I remain committed to seeing these reforms enacted, and will support them going forward.”
06.12.2015	06.12.15 Gardner Secures Funding for Denver VA Hospital Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today that the Senate has adopted legislation he offered which would fund construction of the Veterans Affairs (VA) Hospital in Denver through the end of the fiscal year. The legislation would raise the authorization cap for the hospital by the necessary $150 million, and direct the VA to provide that money from already-existing sources. “This is a positive step, but it’s far from the last step,” Gardner said. “A work stoppage would only end up costing taxpayers more while further delaying the completion of this facility. I’d like to thank Chairman Isakson and the rest of my Senate colleagues for their support of this measure, and I will continue to work towards permanent solutions that get this hospital built and hold those responsible for the delays and cost overruns responsible. Veterans deserve that.” “From the very beginning, this project has been about making sure Colorado veterans get the care they deserve,” said Johnny Isakson, Chairman of the Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs. “I’m proud to join Sen. Gardner in introducing legislation that will allow construction to continue and give the Department of Veterans Affairs ample time to get its act together and develop a workable plan to finish the project. Congress has now done everything that it can to ensure the continuation of this project. The VA and the administration must now clean up the mess they’ve made. I urge Secretary McDonald and President Obama to finally take responsibility for this deeply flawed project and develop a workable plan to get the job done once and for all.”
06.11.2015	06.11.15 Gardner Denounces Federal Assault on Colowyo Mine Senator Gardner’s full remarks on the Senate floor can be viewed here. Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) took to the Senate floor today to discuss the hugely negative impact that the closure of the Colowyo Mine would have on Northwest Colorado’s families and economy. The mine, located in Moffat County, is threatened by a Federal District Court order determining that the Office of Surface Mining failed to comply with the National Environmental Policy Act in 2007, when it issued a mine plan approval. Unless the Interior Department prepares a new environmental analysis within the time limitation of 120 days after the court decision, the mine will be forced to close. Gardner highlighted the over two hundred jobs supported by the mine, as well as the millions in state and federal tax dollars that the mine contributes. He also pointed out that the mine’s closure would raise energy prices not only in Colorado, but also in neighboring states which participate in the energy cooperative which administers the mine. Gardner also entered into the record several letters from Colorado officials, including Governor John Hickenlooper (D-CO), Congressman Scott Tipton (R-CO), and Congressman Ed Perlmutter (D-CO), which call on the Interior Department to appeal the Court’s ruling. “For a community that’s the size of the town I live in, three thousand people or so, to lose two hundred twenty jobs would be economic catastrophe,” Gardner said. The text of Senator Gardner’s letter, sent with Congressman Scott Tipton, urging the Interior Department to ensure continued operation of the Colowyo Mine, can be viewed here.
06.10.2015	06.10.15 Gardner Policy Provisions Adopted by Foreign Relations Committee Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy, announced today that the Committee adopted two amendments he offered to the State Department Reauthorization legislation considered today, as well as provisions in the underlying text authored by Senator Gardner. The first amendment is a Sense of Congress advocating for a change in Administration policy towards the North Korean regime. The text of amendment is identical to Senator Gardner’s resolution originally introduced last month. The amendment details the North Korean regime’s history of military threats, human rights abuses, and violations of international laws and agreements. It advocates for additional targeted sanctions against the regime and cautions against resuming any negotiations without strict pre-conditions, including a complete halt of Pyongyang’s nuclear and ballistic missile programs, proliferation activities, military provocations, and a significant and verifiable improvement in the regime’s human rights record. The full text of the resolution can be read here. Gardner’s second amendment would require the State Department to produce a strategy relating to U.S. international policy with regard to cybersecurity. The comprehensive strategy, the first of its kind for the Department, would include an assessment of current efforts to build international norms in cyberspace, a plan of action moving forward, and would provide an assessment of the U.S. diplomatic and punitive tools available to deter nation-state actors and other threats to United States cybersecurity. The amendment also specifies that the State Department should work in consultation with other U.S. government agencies and the private sector in producing the report, which would be released to the public within 90 days of the bill being signed into law. This amendment was co-sponsored by Senator Ben Cardin (D-MD), the Ranking Member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, also serving concurrently as the Ranking Member of Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. The full text can be read here. Senator Gardner also secured a provision in the base text bill which mandates that the Administration conduct a comprehensive review of resources devoted to United States engagement in the Asia-Pacific region. This follows Senator Gardner’s effort in the FY2016 Budget Resolution, which passed unanimously.
06.09.2015	06.09.15 Gardner Presses For Expanded Rural Broadband Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today that he, along with a bipartisan group of Senators, has written a letter to Commerce Secretary Penny Pritzker and Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack asking them to review efforts to bring broadband internet access to rural America and to present an analysis of existing programs and best practices. The letter to the two Secretaries reads, in part: As Co-Chairs of the Broadband Opportunity Council (Council), you have a unique opportunity to take a holistic view of our successes and failures at incentivizing broadband deployment and adoption in high-cost, hard to serve areas. The twenty-five different government agencies and entities represented on the Council have tried a variety of approaches to address this complex challenge, and we urge you to carefully review and analyze the strengths and weaknesses of the various Federal initiatives administered by each member agency. We also ask that you coordinate with the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) on this endeavor to learn from their extensive experience. A thorough understanding of what we know already works – and what important questions remain – will help to inform the debate about what more we can do to truly bring rural America into the 21st century. We request a detailed analysis of these initiatives and a list of best practices be included in your report to the President due no later than August 20, 2015. The full text of the letter can be read here. Senator Gardner has been an advocate for rural broadband throughout his time in the United States Congress. While a member of the House of Representatives, he formed a rural broadband coalition to develop public policy and gain expert insight. He also led a letter to Federal Communications Commission Chairman Thomas Wheeler calling for Universal Service Fund support for carriers providing rural customers with broadband-only services.
06.05.2015	06.05.15 Gardner Introduces PORTS Act to Protect American Economy Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today that he has introduced the Protecting Orderly and Responsible Transit of Shipments (PORTS) Act in the United States Senate to safeguard the American economy from the threat of labor shutdowns and slowdowns at seaports. The Act, which is cosponsored by Senator Lamar Alexander (R-TN), would discourage disruptions at US seaports and incentivize speedy resolution of disputes by strengthening and expanding the well-known Taft Hartley process, which is already applicable to ports and includes 70 years of case law. It would do this by granting state governors Taft Hartley powers currently reserved for the president, including the ability to convene a board of inquiry and start the Taft Hartley process whenever a port labor dispute is causing economic harm. Once that board reports, governors could petition federal courts to enjoin slowdowns, strikes, or lockouts at ports in their states. The PORTS Act would explicitly include slowdowns as a trigger for Taft Hartley powers. “This year’s slowdown at West Coast ports demonstrated the disastrous consequences that labor disputes at our ports can have on businesses, consumers, and the entire economy,” Gardner said. “Labor union bosses should not be allowed to hold the economy hostage, nor should they be allowed to use the livelihoods and jobs of millions of Americans as bargaining chips. This Act would empower local leaders, who are most affected by these port disruptions, to apply pressure to their state governments to bring these damaging disputes to an end.” “A labor dispute at one of our ports can cause significant damage to U.S. employers and to our economy – the recent nine-month dispute at the West Coast ports made it difficult for auto manufacturers and suppliers in Tennessee to keep production lines running,” Alexander said. “This legislation will empower state governors to take steps to resolve port labor disputes and avoid economic disaster if the president is unwilling to act. The PORTS Act is supported by the National Retail Federation, the United States Chamber of Commerce, the National Association of Manufacturers, the Agriculture Transportation Coalition, along with dozens of other organizations. “The nation’s retailers and supply chain community wholeheartedly endorse and support the PORTS Act,” National Retail Federation Senior Vice President for Government Relations David French said. “Senator Cory Gardner’s leadership on this international economic, trade and transportation priority is a welcomed sign that Congress is serious about ensuring that additional tools are available to local leaders to prevent another coast-wide port disruption due to an ongoing contract negotiation dispute, while still respecting the collective bargaining process. Reforming the Taft-Hartley Act to empower governors to intervene in a port disruption will help the nation’s supply chain stakeholders and the millions of American jobs and workers who rely on the efficient flow of goods through our nation’s ports. Ensuring the continual free flow of cargo in and out of our ports is in everyone’s interest.” “The U.S. Chamber would like to thank Senator Gardner for his leadership in exploring ways to help ensure that the crisis at the West Coast ports will not happen again,” said Randy Johnson, senior vice president of Labor, Immigration, and Employee Benefits for the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. “His legislation will not interfere with the labor management negotiations necessary, and appropriate, to resolve disputes between the parties, but will provide a type of failsafe mechanism to limit damages to outside parties through revisions of the existing Taft-Hartley emergency procedures.” “The National Association of Manufacturers applauds Senator Gardner for introducing this bill which give state governors the option to intervene in labor disputes at seaports to prevent disruptions," said Joe Trauger, Vice President for Human Resources Policy, National Association of Manufacturers. "When so much of the economy can be affected negatively, we should look for ways to resolve issues as quickly as possible and this legislation provides another pathway to do just that. We simply cannot afford to have the ports grind to a halt – too much is at stake.” “The U.S. cannot afford another collapse of our gateway container ports. We cannot standby and wait for U.S. West Coast ports, which have now shut down twice over the past 13 years, to do it again when the recently approved ILWU- PMA contract expires in just four years, in 2019. The Agriculture Transportation Coalition applauds the leadership of those US Senators who are concerned about the viability of our US economy and of preventing another disaster at the ports,” said Peter Friedmann, Executive Director, Agriculture Transportation Coalition. BACKGROUND Trade through ports is critical to the United States economy. According to the American Association of Port Authorities, US ports support 23 million jobs, and the value of related economic activity accounts for 26 percent of GDP. Disputes at our ports disrupt trade and hurt local and national economies: Labor disputes at the ports clog up these vital arteries and lead to delays, higher costs, and lost business for industries throughout the country. Many economists, including the Federal Reserve Board of Governors, cited the most recent West Coast ports dispute as a primary cause of a 0.7 percent decline in GDP in the first quarter of 2015. It also severely impacted industries across the supply chain: Agriculture exports (apples, hay, Christmas trees, etc.) lost export opportunities and overseas customers/markets, because they couldn’t get products to market. Meat and poultry companies lost sales and faced port charges in excess of $30 million per week. Retail shipments were delayed from reaching store shelves, and some stores resorted to expensive air freight to stock goods. Manufacturers waiting on shipments had to shut down production lines and risked losing contracts with foreign customers. Remedies to these disputes do exist, but often go unused. Congress decided long ago that the health and reputation of the greatest economy in the world should not be used as leverage in contract negotiations. By enacting Taft Hartley, lawmakers established a process by which the President can petition federal courts to end labor disputes because of a strike, lockout, or threat of either. But when the President refuses to act, the affected businesses, employees, and consumers have few options. This legislation will revitalize Taft Hartley, restoring critical protections for the US economy.
06.02.2015	06.02.15 Gardner Commends Passage of USA Freedom Act Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement commending the Senate's passage of the USA Freedom Act, introduced by Senator Lee (R-UT) and Senator Leahy (D-VT): “The way that bulk collection of Americans' data was being carried out under Section 215 of the PATRIOT Act had gone too far. The USA Freedom Act provides greater privacy protections for American citizens and more properly balances civil liberties and national security. I’m glad that the Senate has passed this critical legislation, and I look forward to it being signed into law.” ###
05.28.2015	05.28.15 Gardner: States Must Lead The Way on Sage-Grouse Protection Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement regarding the Bureau of Land Management and U.S. Forest Service announcement of final environmental reviews for proposed land use plans for the Greater Sage-Grouse: "According to Governor Hickenlooper’s office, the state of Colorado has spent $62 million on Greater Sage-Grouse conservation and science. Colorado, and other Western states, have invested this time and effort in order to develop plans that conserve the Sage-Grouse and take into account local environments, communities, and economies. The federal plans, by contrast, are a top-down approach that ignores the work states have already done. “These federal plans would have major negative economic impacts on states, communities, and jobs. They would significantly hamper access to public lands for sportsmen and other recreational users. They do not represent a viable, workable option for states leading up to the September 30th deadline by which the Interior Department will decide whether or not to list the Sage-Grouse as an endangered species. “I have introduced legislation which will empower states to lead the way in preserving the Sage-Grouse. My legislation has drawn support from local governments, the Colorado Farm Bureau, energy producers, and many more precisely because it allows states, who know their own environments best, to preserve the Sage-Grouse while mitigating any negative effects on jobs and our economy. I look forward to advancing this legislation through the Senate.” Read more about Senator Gardner’s legislation, and the organizations that have offered their support, here. ###
05.27.2015	05.27.15 Gardner Denounces Federal Encroachment On Water Rights Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement reacting to the release today of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) "Waters of the United States" rule: "This rule represents a massive expansion of federal power and puts the EPA in the ludicrous position of acting as the main regulator of ponds, ditches, and even intermittent streams across the country. Generations of state and local officials have crafted water rules that take community needs into account while ensuring that water is kept clean. “Now, this rule threatens to wash all those years of state water law away and drown communities and businesses in federal red tape. I will continue to support legislative efforts to block this rule and protect the ability of Coloradans to decide how best to make use of our limited water resources.” ###
05.22.2015	05.22.15 Gardner Commends Passage Of Trade Authority Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement commending the passage of Trade Promotion Authority by the Senate: “Passing TPA is an important step towards completing the free trade bills currently being negotiated by our country. Breaking down barriers to trade creates jobs here at home while filling shelves abroad with more products stamped ‘Made in the USA’. Free trade enhances our standing in the world and helps build stronger alliances with other nations while putting pressure on our economic rivals. "This vote on TPA is not the end of the process. It's now the job of American negotiators to bring back a fair deal that creates jobs and builds our economy. Any deal negotiated will be subject to review by Congress and the public, and will receive an up or down vote. I'll continue to press for trade deals that benefit Coloradan and American workers while breaking down economic barriers." ###
05.22.2015	05.22.15 Senate Passes Short-Term Bill to Continue Construction on VA Hospital Washington, DC - Colorado U.S. Senators Cory Gardner and Michael Bennet today welcomed the passage of a short-term bill to continue construction on the VA regional medical facility in Aurora. The bill gives Congress and the Department of Veterans Affairs additional time to work on a long-term funding solution to complete the project. “Much hard work remains to be done to deliver the world-class medical facility that veterans deserve and were promised,” Gardner said. “The VA, working with Congress, must fulfill its obligation to find a viable path forward on this hospital and make sure those responsible for the delays and cost overruns are held accountable.” “A shutdown would have been the worst outcome, adding hundreds of millions of dollars to the cost of construction,” Bennet said.“We cannot continue to operate on short-term and last-minute agreements. The VA and Congress must take this time to develop a long-term plan to finish the hospital that includes accountability measures and funding that does not sacrifice the care of our veterans. The Colorado delegation has stood united in our effort to complete this hospital, and we will continue to work with the White House, the VA, and with Congressional and committee leadership to find a path forward.” ###
05.21.2015	05.21.15 Ayotte, Gardner Introduce Bill Aimed at Increasing Availability of Safe and Effective Over-the-Counter Contraceptives Washington, DC – U.S. Senators Kelly Ayotte (R-NH) and Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today that they have introduced legislation that would help increase access to safe and effective contraceptives by encouraging manufacturers of routine-use contraceptives to file an application with the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to sell their products over the counter (OTC). The Allowing Greater Access to Safe and Effective Contraception Act would incentivize manufacturers of routine-use contraceptives to file for a prescription-to-over-the-counter switch by allowing for priority review of the application and waiving the FDA filing fee. These incentives would be available for any contraceptive available to adults aged 18 and above and which was found by the FDA to be safe and effective for routine OTC use. Further, the bill would repeal the Affordable Care Act’s restriction on the use of health, medical, and flexible savings accounts to purchase over-the-counter drugs without a prescription. “Our legislation will help increase women’s access to safe and effective contraceptives and further empower women to make their own health care decisions,” said Ayotte. “In addition, our bill restores the ability of Health Savings Accounts and Flexible Spending Accounts to be used to purchase over-the-counter medications, giving women more purchasing power.” “It’s time to allow women the ability to make their own decisions about safe, effective, and long-established methods of contraception,” Gardner said. “Most other drugs with such a long history of safe and routine use are available for purchase over the counter, and contraception should join them. Making this medication available over the counter would increase access in rural and underserved areas, save consumers money by increasing competition and availability, and save women time by increasing the ease of getting the safe contraception they need.” The FDA has found a number of contraceptives to be proven safe and effective at preventing pregnancies and managing certain health conditions. However, in order to access safe and effective contraceptives designed for routine use, currently a woman must visit her health care provider to receive a prescription. The Allowing Greater Access to Safe and Effective Contraception Act would encourage manufacturers of routine-use contraceptives to file an application with the FDA to switch their products from prescription to OTC. This legislation would not interfere with the FDA’s current process for determining safety and efficacy, maintaining FDA scientists’ and experts’ authority to make the final decision on whether a contraceptive should be made available OTC. The bill is being cosponsored by Senators Dean Heller (R-NV), Joni Ernst (R-IA), Richard Burr (R-NC), Ron Johnson (R-WI), and Thom Tillis (R-NC). KEY PROVISIONS: The Allowing Greater Access to Safe and Effective Contraception Act: Incentivizes manufacturers of contraceptives to file an application for a prescription-to-over-the-counter switch (Rx-to-OTC switch) by Allowing priority review for contraceptive Rx-to-OTC switch applications Waiving the FDA filing fee for contraceptive Rx-to-OTC switch applications Makes these incentives available to Contraceptives intended for routine use that, if found to be safe and effective for OTC use by the FDA, would be made available OTC to adults aged 18 and above Allows women greater ability to save and make their own health care decisions by Repealing the Affordable Care Act’s (ACA) prohibition on the use of health savings accounts, medical savings accounts, and flexible spending accounts (FSAs) to purchase OTC drugs without a prescription Repealing the ACA’s annual limits on FSA contributions ###
05.21.2015	05.21.15 Gardner Statement on Aurora VA Hospital Washington, DC ­- Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO)released the following statement today on the state of the Aurora VA Hospital: “Today’s announcement that a temporary deal has been reached to avert a work stoppage at the Aurora Veterans Affairs hospital is an important step forward. It gives members of Congress and the VA time to negotiate a permanent, long term solution. A project shutdown would cost taxpayers millions of dollars while continuing to delay the completion of this critical, needed facility. “As a result of poor management by the VA, hundreds of millions of taxpayer dollars have already been wasted. Veterans from Colorado and across the Rocky Mountain region have been left waiting. Colorado veterans deserve the world-class facility they were promised, and Congress and the VA should not rest until that goal is accomplished.” ###
05.21.2015	05.21.15 Tipton, Gardner Working to Save Colowyo Mine WASHINGTON– Congressman Scott Tipton (R-CO) and Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today urged Secretary of the Interior Sally Jewell to instruct the Office of Surface Mining (OSM) to take action to prevent the impending closure of the Colowyo mine and loss of hundreds of jobs in Moffat County, Colorado. “We write to urge you to take all necessary and appropriate action to ensure the continued operation of the Colowyo Coal Mine, which is a critical component of northwest Colorado’s regional economy and has responsibly operated in the eight years since the mine plan approval was issued by your office,” Tipton and Gardner wrote. “Coal produced by this mine, located in Moffat and Rio Blanco counties, is then used to generate power at the Craig station and is responsible for employing over 200 people with a payroll of around $20 million dollars. Requested actions include urgently deploying sufficient personnel with the resources and expertise to complete the supplemental NEPA work within the 120 day window provided by the District Court.” Earlier this month, Judge R. Brooke Jackson of the Federal District Court for the District of Colorado issued an order determining that in 2007 OSM failed to comply with the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) when it issued a mine plan approval for the Colowyo Coal Mine. The Court gave OSM a narrow 120 day window to prepare a new analysis, and stated that it would effectively shut down the mine should the deadline not be met. “In addition, we strongly urge OSM to evaluate the propriety of an appeal. Without remarking on the reasoning of the Court contained within the decision itself, the result nonetheless creates adverse precedent with other suits pending, which would harm not only Colowyo and the town of Craig, but potentially numerous other mining operations and towns in other states as well,” Tipton and Gardner wrote. “The federal government must vigorously defend the legality of its permitting actions, and leave policy debates over the role of coal to the legislative and rulemaking proceedings where those debates belong.” The full text of the letter is available HERE and below: The Honorable Sally Jewell Secretary of the Interior Department of the Interior 1849 C Street NW Washington, DC 20240 Secretary Jewell, On May 8, 2015, the Federal District Court for the District of Colorado issued an order determining that the Office of Surface Mining (“OSM”) failed to comply with the National Environmental Policy Act (“NEPA”) in 2007, when it issued a mine plan approval for the Colowyo Coal Mine. The Court gave OSM 120 days to prepare a new analysis and issue a new decision. If OSM does not complete the process in 120 days, the Court stated that it would vacate the mine plan, effectively shutting down the Mine. We write to urge you to take all necessary and appropriate action to ensure the continued operation of the Colowyo Coal Mine, which is a critical component of northwest Colorado’s regional economy and has responsibly operated in the eight years since the mine plan approval was issued by your office. Coal produced by this mine, located in Moffat and Rio Blanco counties, is then used to generate power at the Craig station and is responsible for employing over 200 people with a payroll of around $20 million dollars. Requested actions include urgently deploying sufficient personnel with the resources and expertise to complete the supplemental NEPA work within the 120 day window provided by the District Court. Colowyo Coal Mine is a significant contributor to both of the counties’ economies. The adverse effects of shutting down this mine go beyond the jobs at the mine that would be lost. We surely do not need to impress upon your office the potentially devastating impact of reducing operations at two of the counties’ largest employers as well as one of the largest electricity providers in the western half of the state. In addition, we strongly urge OSM to evaluate the propriety of an appeal. Without remarking on the reasoning of the Court contained within the decision itself, the result nonetheless creates adverse precedent with other suits pending, which would harm not only Colowyo and the town of Craig, but potentially numerous other mining operations and towns in other states as well. The federal government must vigorously defend the legality of its permitting actions, and leave policy debates over the role of coal to the legislative and rulemaking proceedings where those debates belong. Respectfully, Cory Gardner Scott Tipton United States Senator Member of Congress # # #
05.20.2015	05.20.15 Gardner, Bennet Introduce Native American Indian Education Act Washington, DC ­- Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Senator Michael Bennet (D-CO) announced today that they have introduced The Native American Indian Education Act in the United States Senate to provide relief to State education budgets currently fulfilling a federal mandate to provide tuition-free higher education opportunities for Native American Indians. The Act addresses federal-state agreements which required, as part of a land grant agreement, that States finance Native American tuition at certain universities in perpetuity. One such agreement, at Fort Lewis College in Colorado, covered just a few dozen students when it was originally struck in 1910. Today, over 1,123 American Indian and Alaska native students from over 162 tribes nationwide attend Fort Lewis college, and the State of Colorado is bearing much of the cost of tuition waivers and other expenses, which exceed $16 million per year. This Act ensures the tuition wavier program will continue, but updates the program to reflect the current day reality of educational costs and make the federal-state arrangement as equitable as it was originally intended. The Act ensures that the cost of educating Native American and Alaska native students from across the country does not fall solely on individual states, thereby having the federal government live up to its commitment to provide educational opportunities to Native students. “Fort Lewis College and institutions like it provide fantastic opportunities and a great education to Native and non-Native students alike,” Gardner said. “With students coming from regions and tribes across the United States to get an education, it no longer makes sense to have the cost of that education born by single states. It’s time to reform this system to ensure that Native American education is the national priority that it should be.” “At a time when higher education is becoming a prerequisite for success in the 21st century economy, this program is crucial to helping Native American students who may otherwise struggle to afford college,” Bennet said. “Colorado’s Fort Lewis College offers a tremendous opportunity for Native American students, and it’s time for the federal government to step in and help ensure this waiver remains viable.”
05.19.2015	05.19.15 Gardner Resolution Urges North Korea Sanctions Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy, announced today that he has introduced a resolution in the United States Senate advocating for a change in Administration policy towards the North Korean regime. The resolution details the North Korean regime’s history of military threats, human rights abuses, and violations of international laws and agreements. It advocates for additional targeted sanctions against the regime and cautions against resuming any negotiations without strict pre-conditions, including a complete halt of Pyongyang’s nuclear and ballistic missile programs, proliferation activities, military provocations, and a significant and verifiable improvement in the regime’s human rights record. The full text of the resolution can be read here. “The North Korean regime has a long history of belligerence toward the free world and brutal repression of its own people,”Gardner said. “It’s clear that the Administration’s current policy of so-called ‘strategic patience’ with regard to North Korea has been a failure, and it’s time to change course. This resolution sends a strong message to the Administration that we must act quickly to address this major threat to the security of the United States and our allies in East Asia.” ###
05.15.2015	05.15.15 Gardner Statement on National Police Week Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement marking the 34th Annual National Peace Officers’ Memorial Service and National Police Week: “As police officers and supporters of law enforcement from around the country gather today in Washington, DC, it’s important for all of us in public service to pause and recognize the tremendous sacrifices and contributions made by law enforcement officers for the benefit of our communities, our state, and our country. I’m grateful for the men and women who put themselves at risk to maintain the safety and security of our communities, and I look forward to working with the entire law enforcement community going forward on crafting policies that work best for police, citizens, and communities.” ###
05.14.2015	05.14.15 Gardner, Bennet, Coffman Issue Statement on Denver VA Hospital Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Senator Michael Bennet (D-CO), and Representative Mike Coffman (R-CO) issued the following statement today regarding the Denver Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Medical Center: “Today, the Chairmen of the Senate and House Committees on Veterans’ Affairs expressed deep concerns with the Denver VA hospital project. We share the Chairmen’s displeasure with the behavior of the Department of Veterans Affairs throughout the construction process, and we echo the Chairmen’s calls for the VA to end their empty promises and make real changes within their agency. Recent whistleblower reports show that the VA is wasting billions of taxpayer dollars per year. That’s completely unacceptable and an insult to taxpayers and veterans across the country. “But despite the failures of the VA, Colorado veterans deserve to see the completion of the world-class facility they were promised in Denver. They also deserve to see those officials responsible for the delays and cost overruns that have characterized this project held accountable. As members of the Colorado delegation, we are united in our conviction that this hospital must be built, and we will work to bring this project to its long-overdue completion.” ###
05.13.2015	05.13.15 Senate Coalition To Introduce Bill Providing Access To Epilepsy Treatment Washington, DC – Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Ron Wyden (D-OR), along with Senate co-sponsors Johnny Isakson (R-GA), Jeff Merkley (D-OR), Orrin Hatch (R-UT), and Michael Bennet (D-CO), announced today they are introducing the Therapeutic Hemp Medical Access Act of 2015 in the United States Senate to exempt from the Controlled Substances Act strains of therapeutic hemp used to fight seizures in children and adults suffering from intractable epilepsy. These strains, which include the commonly known Charlotte’s Web, contain less than 0.3% of tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), the psychoactive component of marijuana, and have significant medical benefits due to high concentrations of cannabidiol (CBD). Other anti-seizure treatments are ineffective more often than not, but families have found success using therapeutic hemp oil, which is legal in the majority of states but still banned under the Controlled Substances Act. The conflict between federal and state law has forced many families to choose between their homes and adequate treatment for their loved ones. Gardner and Wyden’s legislation would lift federal prohibitions on this treatment option and provide access for patients across the country. The bill has the support of the Epilepsy Foundation, a national non-profit group that advocates for individuals and families impacted by epilepsy and seizures. It is also supported by The Coalition for Access Now, a nonprofit organization led by families advocating for this important therapy. Senators Gardner and Wyden, fellow co-sponsors, and members of families affected by the legislation will be holding a press conference on Wednesday, May 13 at 12:30 p.m. on the Capitol grounds. “This bill would provide children and adults alike with access to medicine they need to treat life-threatening conditions,” Gardner said. “Colorado has become a haven for people in need and parents desperate to pursue treatment for their children. Making this medicine available nationwide is the right thing to do, and would help families cope with these serious illnesses.” “Oregon voters have spoken clearly in favor of laws that allow the medical and recreational use of marijuana. But federal laws are out of step and needless barriers remain,” Wyden said. “Caught in the middle are kids and other patients who suffer from debilitating seizures that could be more effectively treated with easier access to medically effective CBD cannabis strains. That’s what this bill does and that’s why it’s important. This bill will make it possible for people in need to get access to a potential lifesaver and to live healthier, more carefree lives. I thank Sen. Gardner for his work on this issue and I urge all my colleagues to embrace this legislation.” “We shouldn't let outdated federal drug policy get in the way of medicine that could make a huge difference in the lives of struggling children,” said Merkley. “This legislation will ensure that families of children suffering from seizures have access to treatments that can provide them with a better quality of life,” said Isakson. “The legislation also removes federal barriers for Georgia families who want to bring the cannabis oil back to Georgia in order to administer medical treatment in the comfort of their own home. I’ve always been a supporter of research and innovation as a leading driver in finding new and improved treatment options for those affected by diseases and disorders.” “This important legislation will help bring relief to thousands of suffering children nationwide,” Hatch said. "Cannabidiol has been shown to dramatically reduce seizures in children with intractable epilepsy. At the same time, it does not produce any sort of ‘high’ because the THC content is so low. Although I remain steadfastly opposed to marijuana legalization, I recognize that certain compounds in the marijuana plant may be useful for treating medical conditions. Where, as with cannabidiol, it is possible to isolate these compounds in a way that eliminates any sort of psychoactive effect, I support allowing people to use them to treat illness and improve their lives.” “Cannabidiol has shown it can significantly reduce the number of seizures for kids with epilepsy,” Bennet said. “No parent wants to see their child suffer. At the very least, we should ease these restrictions to ensure that families have access to the medicine that their kids need.” BACKGROUND INFORMATION Nearly 3 million Americans suffer from "intractable epilepsy" — characterized by frequent, uncontrolled seizures that place tremendous strain on the patient, often resulting in serious physical problems including brain damage and even death. Charlotte’s Web is named for Charlotte Figi, an 8-year-old Colorado resident who was diagnosed as an infant with Dravet Syndrome, a rare and severe form of epilepsy. As the disease progressed, Charlotte eventually came to suffer as many as 300 grand mal seizures in a week. After having exhausted all other treatment options and doing significant research, Charlotte’s parents tried using a low-THC, high-CBD strain of marijuana, ingested as an oil. The results were immediate and significant: Charlotte’s seizures, and their intensity, were significantly reduced. Instead of suffering dozens per day, she now suffers just a handful per month, and usually in her sleep. In the years since marijuana was legalized in Colorado, many individuals and families have flocked to the state in order to obtain the medicine for themselves or loved ones suffering from conditions that are treated by the drug. Legalizing this medication nationwide would prevent families from having to uproot and move long distances just to have access to medicines available in some states but not others. ###
05.12.2015	05.12.15 Democrats and Unions Block Bill Promoting Economic Growth in Colorado Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement after he voted in favor of a procedural motion advancing Trade Promotion Authority (TPA): “The failure of today’s procedural motion to advance TPA is a disappointing example of Washington politics getting in the way of growing our economy. Unfortunately, Senate Democrats and their union allies have decided to block this legislation from moving forward and are instead standing in the way of economic growth and American jobs. Breaking down barriers to trade is good for American workers, good for national security, and good for American competitiveness. TPA gives our nation’s negotiators the chance to strike the best deals possible for American workers while still giving Congress the chance to vote yes or no on any final agreement. “Giving American businesses more access to overseas markets is critical to growing our economy and creating jobs. It’s time to start filling shelves in other countries with more goods stamped ‘Made in the USA.’ Authorizing TPA is a good first step towards that goal. I urge the senators currently obstructing this important legislation to drop their objections and allow it to proceed to a vote.” ###
05.07.2015	05.07.15 Gardner Statement On Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, released the following statement today on the Senate’s passage, by a vote of 98-1, of the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act: “From the beginning of these negotiations, I have insisted that Congress must have a voice in any deal agreed to by President Obama and the ruling regime of Iran. The Iranian regime is the world’s leading state sponsor of terrorism. They have targeted Americans for assassination. They have aided, abetted, and armed enemies of the United States. They cannot be allowed to obtain a nuclear weapon. This Act must not be the end of Congress’ role overseeing any Iran nuclear agreement, but rather the beginning of our efforts to ensure the Administration holds Iran accountable. ###
05.05.2015	05.05.15 Gardner Applauds Passage of Balanced Budget Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement today on the Senate’s passage of a balanced budget: “When the new Senate majority was sworn in, we pledged to govern responsibly and change the dysfunctional way the Senate had been operating. With today’s vote approving the first balanced 10-year budget since 2001, we have started to deliver on that promise. “This budget is a serious step towards addressing our rapidly increasing national debt and the federal government’s habitual overspending, both of which are a threat to American taxpayers and their livelihoods. This budget would balance within 10 years, provide for a strong national defense, strengthen Medicare, protect Social Security, and support a strong, healthy economy. “I was proud to vote for this budget, and especially pleased to secure inclusion of my amendment protecting the water rights of Coloradans from federal overreach. My amendment would protect states’ ability to govern their own water laws, and protect existing water rights and permits from any future meddling by the federal government. ###
05.04.2015	05.04.15 Senators Direct More Money From Crime Fund to Victims A 450% Increase in Colorado Compared to Fiscal Year 2014 WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Victims of crime will have access to hundreds of millions more dollars next year under a provision included in the budget resolution being considered Tuesday. In response to calls from U.S. Senators Pat Toomey (R-Pa.), Kelly Ayotte (R-N.H.), Bob Corker (R-Tenn.), Mike Crapo (R-Idaho), and Cory Gardner (R-Colo.), the budget resolution provides an estimated $2.5 billion in funds to victims of child abuse, domestic violence, sexual assault, and other crimes without using taxpayer dollars. The Crime Victims Fund supports services to victims of crime, through direct compensation to victims and by funding Child Advocacy Centers, domestic violence shelters, rape crisis centers, and other victim service groups. The Crime Victims Fund receives no taxpayer dollars; it is funded by fines and penalties collected from convicted criminals. The law requires that money in the Crime Victims Fund must be used only to assist crime victims. For over a decade, billions of dollars have come into the fund but those dollars have not been distributed to victims. Instead, the foregone distribution to victims is used as a budget gimmick which pretends to reduce federal spending. The budget resolution includes a provision, modeled after legislation introduced by Sens. Toomey, Ayotte, Corker, Crapo, and Gardner, that stops Congress from diverting hundreds of millions of dollars from victims of crime. “Each year, crime victims go without services they desperately need,” said Sen. Toomey. “If Congress followed the law, these victims would have access to hundreds of millions more dollars each year. It is past time for Congress to stop balancing the budget on the backs of crime victims. “I am pleased Congress took a crucial first step toward righting years of injustice against victims of child abuse, domestic violence, sexual assault, and other crimes. But this is just a one-year fix. I will work with my colleagues to pass a permanent solution that ensures crime victims receive the funds that they desperately need.” “This provision in the budget resolution limits a Washington accounting gimmick that for too long has prevented crime victims from receiving urgently needed funds and services,” said Sen. Ayotte. “This is an important step in ensuring that the Crime Victims Fund is used to provide services to victims of child abuse, domestic violence, sexual assault and other crimes.” “The Crime Victims Fund was created to help those victimized by crime, but unfortunately it has been used as a slush fund for unrelated budget items for over a decade,” said Sen. Corker. “This provision will help address one of the many gimmicks used by Congress, and I am pleased it was included in the budget resolution.” “For too long, Congress has used the Crime Victims Fund for purposes other than assisting victims of crime,” said Sen. Crapo. “The inclusion of this budget provision is an important first step in restoring the Fund to its intended purpose —providing direct assistance and access to services for crime victims and their families.” “It’s important that the Crime Victims Fund is used to help crime victims,” said Sen. Gardner. “Using these funds as an accounting gimmick instead of for their intended purpose is a disservice to victims and taxpayers alike. I’m proud to support this effort to protect victims’ assistance funding this year, and I look forward to working with Senator Toomey, Senator Ayotte, and others on a permanent fix.” Background Congress created the Crime Victims Fund in 1984, based on the principle that fines and penalties the federal government collects from those who commit crime should be used to assist victims of crime. The Crime Victims Fund is funded solely by fines and penalties collected in criminal court and private donations. No taxpayer dollars are involved. Since fiscal year 2000, Congress has diverted over $10 billion from the Crime Victims Fund—each year, taking hundreds of millions of dollars that, under federal law, are required to go to victims of child abuse, domestic violence, sexual assault, and other crimes to make the federal balance sheet look better. The FY 2016 budget resolution limits the ability of big spenders in Congress to use the Crime Victims Fund as a budget gimmick, and ensures that crime victims receive the funds they desperately need. Nationally, crime victims will have access to an estimated $2.5 billion, or two-and-a-half times the amount the President requested in his budget proposal. In Colorado, this provision would make more than $34 million available for victims’ assistance, a 450% increase from fiscal year 2014, when just $7.5 million was granted. ###
05.04.2015	05.04.15 Gardner Joins Bipartisan Highway Bill Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today that he has signed on as a co-sponsor to the Invest in Transportation Act introduced by Senator Rand Paul (R-KY) and Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA). The Act would extend the Highway Trust Fund, authorization for which is currently set to expire at the end of May, while incentivizing U.S. companies to repatriate some of the estimated $2 trillion in foreign earnings currently being held overseas. Those dollars brought back to the United States would be taxed at a 6.5% rate, with all revenues being directed to the Highway Trust Fund. At least 25% of the funds brought back into the United States would have to be used to increase hiring, wages, or pensions; research and development; environmental improvements; public-private partnerships; capital improvements; or acquisitions. “Extending the Highway Trust Fund is of critical importance for all Coloradans, and is a bipartisan priority,” Gardner said. “Providing much-needed additions to this critical fund through a repatriation program is a vastly superior solution than imposing additional taxes on Coloradans. This bill would bring money currently held abroad back into our economy, while funding the key transportation investments our communities and businesses need to move forward. ###
05.01.2015	05.01.15 Gardner Commemorates Asian-Pacific American Heritage Month Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy, released a statement today commemorating the beginning of Asian-Pacific American Heritage Month. Asian-Pacific American Heritage Month is a celebration of Asians and Pacific Islanders in the United States, originally designated as a weeklong celebration by Congress in 1978 and later signed into permanent law as a full month. “Asian-Pacific American Heritage Month offers Americans the chance to recognize and celebrate the numerous contributions made to the United States of America by citizens of Asian and Pacific Islander heritage,” Gardner said. “Generations of immigrants from across Asia and the Pacific have come to the United States in search of the hope, opportunity, and freedom to succeed that defines the American dream. Our nation has benefitted enormously from the contributions of Asian Americans and Pacific Islander Americans, and I hope that all Coloradans and Americans take time this month to appreciate the important ways in which our state, our country, and our society are strengthened by our fellow citizens of Asian and Pacific Islander heritage.” ###
04.30.2015	04.30.15 Energy Committee Hears Testimony on Gardner Efficiency Legislation Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today that the U.S. Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources has heard testimony on S. 858, the Energy Savings Through Public-Private Partnerships Act of 2015, which is cosponsored by Senator Coons (D-DE), Senator Portman (R-OH), and Senator Shaheen (D-NH). More information about the bill, including its full text, is available here. The Act would encourage the increased use of Energy Savings Performance Contracts (ESPCs) and Utility Energy Service Contracts (UESCs) in federal facilities. ESPCs and UESCs are innovative public-private partnerships in which private companies use their own money and resources to make energy-efficiency and utility-efficiency upgrades to federal buildings. In exchange for making those upgrades, those private companies receive a portion of the money saved as a result of the increased efficiency in federal buildings. ESPCs and UESCs create private sector jobs upgrading the federal government’s estimated three billion square feet of office space at no real cost to taxpayers. “I’m excited by the progress being made on this important legislation,” Gardner said. “Today’s hearing was a key step towards eventual passage of this legislation, which would create jobs and make our federal government more efficient at the same time. This is the kind of bipartisan, jobs-creating legislation that should be Congress’ main focus. I’d like to thank my cosponsors for their support and hard work on this legislation, and Chairman Murkowski for scheduling and holding today’s hearing. I’m committed to seeing this bill through all the way to its signing into law.” ###
04.30.2015	04.30.15 Gardner Statement on North Korea Nuclear Developments Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy, released the following statement reacting to recent reports that North Korea may have re-started its nuclear reactor in Yongbyon and plans to drastically increase its nuclear stockpile: “I am closely monitoring these extremely disturbing reports regarding North Korea. According to nuclear experts, North Korea may already be in possession of as many as 20 nuclear warheads, with the potential to possess as many as 100 within the next five years. This amounts to an alarming escalation of the nuclear threat from one of the world’s most dangerous regimes and represents a grave threat to U.S. national security and that of our allies in the region. “We should not forget that in a deal with the United States over 20 years ago, North Korea pledged to dismantle their nuclear program. Today, we are reaping the harvest of failed policies of engagement with a regime that has no respect for international agreements or international norms. The Administration must take immediate action to stop North Korea’s development of its nuclear arsenal, and draw the appropriate policy conclusions as it negotiates with other rogue states that seek to obtain nuclear weapons to threaten the free world.” ###
04.29.2015	04.29.15 Gardner: "A Stalled Economy Needs TPP" Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy, released the following statement today following reports that the United States economy grew by just 0.2% in the first quarter of 2015: “This report is yet another reminder that there’s a long way to go before most Coloradans and Americans actually feel that there’s been an economic recovery. Further, the disproportionate effect of falling exports on our economy that this report highlights shows the need for more free trade, and more international economic activity. With Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe addressing the United States Congress today, elected officials in Washington should be especially cognizant of the opportunity available to us if we can successfully complete negotiations on the Trans-Pacific Partnership and tear down barriers to trade with some of the largest economies in the world. “American workers and entrepreneurs can out-compete, out-produce, and out-work any other economy in the world. Giving American exporters more access to overseas markets and allowing us to sell more American-made goods abroad will, in turn, lead to economic growth within our own borders. Export jobs, particularly those in manufacturing, are the kind of well-paying jobs that our economy has created far too few of in recent years. “Over 40,000 jobs in Colorado are already supported by exports. Over 5,700 Colorado companies, most of them small or medium-sized, export goods abroad. Those numbers prove how important exports already are to growth, and increasing them would benefit all Coloradans. A stalled economy needs TPP. Let’s allow American workers and small business owners, exporting more and more American goods abroad, to be the engines that drive our economic growth going forward. ###
04.29.2015	04.29.15 Gardner: "A Historic Address, and Critical Opportunity" Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy, released the following statement on Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s address to Congress today: “I’d like to thank Prime Minister Abe for coming before the United States Congress and providing us with his insight. Prime Minister Abe is the first leader of Japan to address a joint meeting of Congress, and his historic address comes at a critical time for relations between our two countries. The modern U.S.-Japan alliance, born out of conflict but bound now by friendship, is the backbone of security and stability in Asia. Our nation’s strategic future lies in Asia -- and as the United States becomes more intertwined with its fellow Asia-Pacific nations, close ties with Japan will be more important than ever. Through increased trade, increased security cooperation, and increased understanding of the shared challenges and opportunities in the region, we can ensure that this alliance only grows stronger, benefitting both of our nations.” ###
04.28.2015	04.28.15 Gardner: “Yet Another Example of Iranian Aggression” Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, issued the following statement on reports developing today that Iran Revolutionary Guard Patrol boats have fired upon, intercepted, and boarded a commercial vessel in the Strait of Hormuz: “This aggression from Iran, the world’s leading state sponsor of terrorism, is yet another example of this rogue regime’s reckless behavior that the international community cannot - and must not - tolerate. As we continue to negotiate with the Iranian regime, which is committed to openly confronting the United States and our allies, I urge the Administration to take all necessary action to repel Iranian belligerence.” ###
04.28.2015	04.28.15 Gardner Welcomes Prime Minister Abe in Floor Speech Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) welcomed Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe to Capitol Hill in a speech today on the floor of the United States Senate. Prime Minister Abe is scheduled to address a joint meeting of Congress on Wednesday, April 29th. Gardner, the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy, spoke on the importance of the United States’ relationship with Japan, and on the importance of strengthening the bonds between our two nations. Video of Senator Gardner’s speech is available here. Gardner’s remarks, as prepared, read: Mr. President – I rise to welcome the Prime Minister of Japan Shinzo Abe to Congress and to speak to the importance of U.S.-Japan relations and the future of the Asia-Pacific region. Tomorrow is a momentous occasion. For the first time ever, our country will welcome the leader of Japan to speak before a joint meeting of Congress. For over two and a half centuries, our nations have been intimately linked by trade and commerce. In 1853, Commodore Matthew Perry awaited with his ships on Japanese shores to deliver a letter President Millard Fillmore had written to Japan’s Emperor on November 13, 1852. It said in part: “I send you this public letter by Commodore Matthew C. Perry, an officer of the highest rank in the navy of the United States, and commander of the squadron now visiting Your imperial majesty's dominions. I have directed Commodore Perry to assure your imperial majesty that I entertain the kindest feelings toward your majesty's person and government, and that I have no other object in sending him to Japan but to propose to your imperial majesty that the United States and Japan should live in friendship.” And thus our nations embarked on a path and relationship that would change the course of world history. On July 29, 1858, the U.S. and Japan concluded The Treaty of Amity and Commerce and in 1860, Japan dispatched its first diplomats to Washington, DC. They were the very first Japanese diplomats to visit a foreign power in 200 years. Historians have often referred to our opening with Japan as an extension of our own nation’s Manifest Destiny, which spread the American people and values westward, including to my own state of Colorado. In 1911, President William Howard Taft further advanced our ties by concluding the Treaty of Commerce and Navigation with Japan. In World War I, Japan sided with the Allies. On March 26, 1912, a gift of 3,020 cherry blossom trees arrived in our nation’s capital -- a symbol of U.S.-Japanese friendship that we witness every spring as we walk through the Tidal Basin and other landmarks in the District. But we must never forget the dark pages in our history. We must never forget Pearl Harbor, the Day that Will Live in Infamy. We must never forget Iwo Jima, Saipan, Guadalcanal, and the bloody battles in Okinawa. This war changed our nation forever. Every day we must remember the sacrifice of the Greatest Generation that prevailed in that epic, civilizational conflict. Without them, this nation would not be what it is today. Without them, this nation may not have endured. We never lost sight of perspective of why we fought. As Imperial Japan surrendered aboard the USS Missouri, General Douglas McArthur offered the following: It is my earnest hope and indeed the hope of all mankind that from this solemn occasion a better world shall emerge out of the blood and carnage of the past -- a world founded upon faith and understanding -- a world dedicated to the dignity of man and the fulfillment of his most cherished wish -- for freedom, tolerance and justice. Japan’s destruction following World War II was nearly complete. Yet out of that rubble of tragedy, emerged the great partnership between our nations. On April 19, 1951, General McArthur went before Congress and declared in his farewell address: The Japanese people, since the war, have undergone the greatest reformation recorded in modern history. With a commendable will, eagerness to learn, and marked capacity to understand, they have, from the ashes left in war's wake, erected in Japan an edifice dedicated to the supremacy of individual liberty and personal dignity; and in the ensuing process there has been created a truly representative government committed to the advance of political morality, freedom of economic enterprise, and social justice. As Japan took on the task of arduously rebuilding its society and economy, our relationship blossomed. Perhaps bolstering that friendship is a shared national pastime: baseball. It arrived in Japan in the 19th century and was already a thriving sport by the time the post-war recovery had begun. Yogi Berra, the New York Yankees great, visited Japan in 1953 in the midst of their rebuilding process. His love of the game won the affection of millions and he traveled the country demonstrating his skills behind the plate. Still, you may pause to wonder if this place—a nation haunted by such recent trials of war, a land struggling to regain its footing in the world, a once-powerful country desperate to turn a page in history—you may wonder if this place is where Yogi Berra first uttered his memorable phrase: “The future ain't what it used to be.” With the United States firmly at her side, Japan rose again. Japan today is the world’s third-largest economy and the fourth-largest trade partner for the United States. Millions of Americans for generations have bought iconic Japanese products -- from Sony televisions, to Toyota automobiles, to Toshiba laptops. In the 1980s, former Senate Majority Leader – and later Ambassador to Japan – Mike Mansfield would describe the U.S.-Japan relationship as the “most important bilateral relationship in the world, bar none.” The U.S.-Japan alliance remains the backbone of security and stability in Asia. Approximately 53,000 U.S. military personnel are now stationed in the Japanese archipelago, both on-shore and off-shore. Together with our Japanese partners, we work daily to confront the security challenges in the region and to ensure peace and stability. As the challenges in the region are evolving, so too must the security relationship between the U.S. and Japan. The Japanese leadership is currently taking necessary steps to change its post-World War II defense posture in order to meet the traditional and emerging challenges in the region. The revised US-Japan Defense cooperation guidelines, announced today, signify a new phase in our relationship and Japan’s emergence as security leader in the region. I want the American people to understand the importance of these developments. It is due to U.S. military presence and the steadfast commitment to our allies that we have avoided a land war in East Asia for generations. Distinguished political scientist Joseph Nye may have put it best when he said: “Security is like oxygen—you tend not to notice it until you begin to lose it, but once that occurs there is nothing else that you think about.” Our presence in the region has given our allies the breathing space to re-build and stave off aggression. And now they are stepping up to the plate to increasingly share that responsibility with the United States. This is also a historic economic moment for the Asia-Pacific region. The United States and Japan are leading the way on concluding one of the most ambitious trade deals ever undertaken: the Trans-Pacific Partnership, or TPP. Eleven Pacific nations from Malaysia to New Zealand and Brunei to Vietnam are actively working to tear down barriers to trade that have stifled access to markets. TPP’s reach encompasses nearly 40 percent of all global trade and trillions of dollars in economic activity. TPP will set the standard for a new era of economic relationships with Asia and the United States and Japan are leading the way. We must conclude this landmark agreement as soon as possible and I am encouraged by the progress we’ve made here in Congress to advance this historic pact. But we must look at TPP as just one step forward in our commitment to the region. Despite the crises of the day in the Middle East or Europe, where the United States does and should play an important role, our nation’s strategic future lies in Asia. Just consider the following estimates from the Asian Development Bank: - By 2050, Asia will account for over half of the global population and over half of the world’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) - Asia’s middle class will rise to a staggering 3 billion people - Per capita GDP income in the region will rise to around $40,000, making it similar to Europe today. We cannot miss the opportunity to be a part of this historic transformation. Working with Japan and other regional partners, we must ensure that our policies strengthen existing friendships and build new partnerships that will be critical to U.S. national security and economic well-being for generations to come. This Administration’s “pivot to Asia”, or “rebalance” policy, which builds on the work began under previous Administrations, is a sensible approach forward to realize these goals. I am concerned, however, with the pace and consistency of the implementation of the “rebalance”. This Administration and the next one must ensure that this important policy of engagement is pursued vigorously at all levels – military, diplomatic, and civilian – in order for it to yield its strategic objectives. Moving in fits and starts is not good policy. Every moment of hesitation and idleness invites ever more challenges and missed opportunities. Our partners in the region must know every day that the U.S. is here to stay. We still face grave threats in the Asia-Pacific. North Korea marches on with their nuclear program and belligerence toward the free world. The growing challenges of nuclear proliferation, cybersecurity threats, and the destabilizing territorial disputes in the South and East China Seas, require that now more than ever, the U.S. and Japan are vigilant and united with our allies in our efforts to maintain regional prosperity and security. As the Prime Minister delivers his historic address tomorrow, it is my hope that he delivers the message that the promise of the future in the region, bolstered by an alliance with the United States, is a more powerful force than the painful history of the past. We must never forget that colonialism and militarism caused untold anguish and destruction in the region in the 20th century. But as demonstrated by the strength of the U.S.-Japan relations following those dark pages of history, it is my sincerest wish that our friends in the region can establish a viable path forward on overcoming this difficult past to focus on building a better future. Mr. President, America’s new century in the Asia-Pacific has arrived. But as we welcome Prime Minister Abe and celebrate our friendship, we must remember that this is only the first inning of this ballgame. We must continue to work toward that goal that General McArthur so eloquently stated aboard the USS Missouri on September 2, 1945: “a better world shall emerge out of the blood and carnage of the past -- a world founded upon faith and understanding -- a world dedicated to the dignity of man and the fulfillment of his most cherished wish -- for freedom, tolerance and justice.” I yield the floor. ###
04.24.2015	04.24.15 Gardner Announces VA Medical Reform Benefitting Veterans Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today that the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) has expanded its Veterans Choice Program eligibility, effective immediately. The Program, which had previously determined Veterans’ ability to choose nearby alternative healthcare options based on straight-line distance between a Veteran’s place of residence and the nearest VA medical facility, will now use driving distance instead. This change will roughly double the number of Veterans eligible for the Choice Program, and newly eligible Veterans are being informed of their qualification by the VA. “Expanding choice in Veterans’ healthcare has been a focus of mine going back to my time in the House of Representatives,” Gardner said. “While there are still a number of reforms that need to be made to the entire VA healthcare system, allowing more Veterans to participate in the Veterans Choice Program is a commonsense change that benefits those who have given so much to our country. I’ll continue to fight for our Veterans’ access to world-class healthcare, and I’m glad that the VA has heeded calls from myself and others to expand Veterans’ choices.” ###
04.24.2015	04.24.15 Gardner: “It’s time for the VA to deliver” Denver, CO – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) issued the following statement after the conclusion of the Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs field hearing on the VA Hospital in Aurora: “I’m glad that members of the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs came to Aurora, toured the construction site, and held this field hearing. It’s important that leaders in Washington are aware of how the VA’s mismanagement of this critical project has harmed veterans in Colorado and the entire Rocky Mountain region. It is my hope that, following today’s hearing, the VA got the message that it’s long past time for this project to be completed. “That’s why I urged the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs to hold this hearing, and it’s why I’ve introduced legislation to reform the construction process and ensure that this hospital, and future facilities across the country, are completed on time and on budget. Our veterans deserve the best. It’s time for the VA to deliver.” ###
04.23.2015	04.23.15 Gardner Advances Small Business Lending Bill Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today that the Small Business Lending Reauthorization Act, which he has sponsored in the United States Senate, advanced out of the Senate Committee on Small Business & Entrepreneurship today on a unanimous voice vote. The Act, which would raise the authorization cap of 7(a) small business loans, is a response to the increasing demand for access to capital from small businesses in Colorado and nationwide. The 7(a) program has experienced great success over the past few years, increasing lending at zero cost to the federal government. This popularity, however, means that the program is approaching its lending limit. "Small businesses across Colorado are using 7(a) loans to grow their businesses, expand their facilities, and export their products to new markets," Gardner said. “This program has proven itself a success, and its expansion is a no-brainer. I made small businesses one of the key tenets of my Four Corners Plan for Colorado, and I’m proud to sponsor this legislation in the United States Senate. I’ll work to ensure this bill passes the Senate and starts benefiting Colorado entrepreneurs as soon as possible.” ###
04.23.2015	04.23.15 Gardner on Loretta Lynch: "Too Many Unanswered Questions" Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) issued the following statement announcing his intention to vote against the confirmation of Loretta Lynch for Attorney General: “Despite multiple attempts, I was unable to get sufficient answers to several extremely important questions relating to prosecutorial discretion, federal preemption of state law, Second Amendment rights, and other issues important to Coloradans. "On topics from the President’s executive actions to when exactly federal law trumps that of the states, Ms. Lynch declined, both in person and via letter, to provide satisfactory answers that would have helped me determine how exactly her confirmation as Attorney General would affect the lives of Coloradans. With too many unanswered questions, I am unable to support her confirmation." ###
04.22.2015	04.22.15 Gardner Bill Protects State Sage Grouse Conservation Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today that he has introduced S.1036, the 'Sage-Grouse Protection and Conservation Act', in the United States Senate. The Act represents a continuation of Senator Gardner’s long record of fighting for Colorado’s environment and economy. The Act would allow states to implement state-created conservation and management plans for the recovery of greater sage-grouse in order to prevent a listing under the Endangered Species Act. The Act would also require the Department of the Interior to share scientific data with states, assist states in crafting and implementing their plans, and recognize the state plans for a minimum of six years. States could, if they so choose, defer to the federal government. “Coloradans know best how to protect our own precious natural resources,” Gardner said. “Western states have invested time and resources into developing conservation plans since 2011, and the bipartisan Western Governors Association has repeatedly expressed support for a state-based approach. Now, the time has come for the federal government to allow these states to put their plans into action, protecting the sage-grouse while mitigating any negative effects on jobs and our economy. I’m proud to lead this effort in the United States Senate, and I’ll work hard to ensure my bill passes." Organizations which have sent letters supporting Senator Gardner’s introduced legislation include: The Colorado Farm Bureau The Western Grouse Coalition The Western Energy Alliance The Colorado Stone, Sand, and Gravel Association The Public Lands Council and the National Cattlemen’s Beef Association The Colorado Mining Association The Utah Mining Association The American Exploration and Mining Association ###
04.16.2015	04.16.15 Gardner Announces Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs Field Hearing Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today that the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs will be holding a field hearing in Aurora on April 24th. The hearing, which will be held in the City Council Chamber at the Aurora Municipal Center, will begin at 1:30 p.m. The hearing follows a letter sent by Senator Gardner and Senator Bennet in February, asking the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs visit Aurora to see firsthand the consequences of the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) mismanagement of the construction of this facility. “The Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs needs to see for themselves what has been obvious to Coloradans for too long: that the VA is failing Colorado veterans with its terrible management of this project,” Gardner said. "This hospital needs to be completed, and the VA needs to be held accountable for the cost overruns and delays which have come at the expense of veterans in Colorado. “I’ve been proud to work with the delegation on legislation that would reform the construction process at the Aurora hospital, and I’ll continue to press for legislative solutions. Hopefully, this Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs field hearing will bring even more much-needed attention to this facility." ###
04.14.2015	04.14.15 Gardner Statement on Iran Nuclear Agreement Legislation Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, released the following statement on the Committee’s passage of a bill providing for Congressional oversight of any deal reached between the Obama Administration and the leaders of Iran: “Throughout this negotiating process, I have consistently advocated for Congressional approval of any deal reached. In order for an agreement with Iran to have international legitimacy, it first must have domestic legitimacy. The American people, through their representatives in the Congress, deserve to have a voice in a nuclear negotiation of such importance. It’s clear that if it were up to the President, he and he alone would negotiate this deal with the Iranian regime. This bill gives Congress the chance to reject a bad deal, safeguarding the American people." ###
04.08.2015	04.08.15 Gardner State Staff Continues to Grow Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today that he has hired Cathy Garcia as a Regional Director in charge of his state office in Pueblo. Garcia was formerly the President and CEO of Action 22, a volunteer-driven organization designed to give a voice to the people of Southeastern Colorado. Garcia has already begun work in the Pueblo Office. Garcia joins Senator Gardner’s already-extensive Colorado staff, which includes representatives in Yuma (Alan Foutz), Grand Junction (Betsy Bair), Colorado Springs (Rebecca Rudder), Greeley (Brittany Ewigleben, Maria Secrest, and Dan Betts), and Denver (Alexandra Orton, Allison Kohn, Jorge Delgado, Nicole Frazier, and Annie Larson). Senator Gardner’s state staff work under State Director Chuck Poplstein. “Having a full and robust state staff is an absolute necessity,” Senator Gardner said. “For as long as I’ve been in Congress, my top priority has been serving my constituents. I’m excited about how quickly we’ve been able to open state offices and fill out our state staff, and I’m eager to have these staffers be a resource to all Coloradans who need assistance dealing with the federal government.” Senator Gardner’s current State Office locations and contact information are as follows: Denver Office 999 18th Street, North Tower, Suite 1525, Denver, CO 80202 Phone: 303-391-5777 Fax: 303-391-5780 Greeley Office 801 8th Street, Suite 140A, Greeley, CO 80631 Phone: 970-352-5546 Fax: 970 352-5796 Grand Junction Office 400 Rood Avenue, Federal Building, Suite 220, Grand Junction, CO 81501 Phone: 970-245-9553 Fax: 970-245-9523 Yuma Office 529 North Albany Street Suite #1220 Yuma, CO 80759 Phone: 970-848-3095 Fax: 970-848-3093 Pueblo Office 503 N. Main Street, Suite 426, Pueblo, CO 81003 Phone: 719-543-1324 Fax: 719-543-1553 Colorado Springs Office Address to Come ###
03.30.2015	03.30.15 Gardner, Cardin, Menendez Amendment Creates Accountability on Asia “Pivot” Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Senator Ben Cardin (D-MD), and Senator Bob Menendez (D-NJ) announced today that they secured inclusion of an amendment to the Senate budget providing for an independent review of US government resources expended to support the Administration’s “Asia pivot”, or “Asia rebalance”, policy. The “Asia pivot” policy, announced by President Obama in 2011, pledged to employ a “whole-of-government” approach to substantially increase US engagement in the Asia-Pacific region. The amendment was included in the budget with the unanimous consent of all Senators. Senator Gardner and Senator Cardin are the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy, and Senator Menendez is the Ranking Member of the Foreign Relations Committee. The amendment would require an independent agency, such as the Government Accountability Office, to provide a detailed account of US government spending supporting the Asia “pivot” policy and to offer recommendations on more efficiently allocating resources, establishing benchmarks, and ensuring the policy achieves its intended objectives. Additionally, this independent report would assess the Administration’s response to recommendations outlined by the Senate Foreign Relations Committee in the 113th Congress, which stated that “the Administration can improve the effectiveness and sustainability of the rebalance policy by increasing civilian engagement, strengthening diplomatic partnerships, and empowering US businesses.” “I agree with the intent of the ‘Asia pivot’ policy, but I want to ensure that our policy goals can be realized,” Gardner said. “It’s important that the American people have a full accounting of the resources that have been devoted to this important policy and whether they have been prioritized effectively. The East-Asia Pacific region comprises 35 countries and nearly a third of the world’s population, and we must ensure that our policy in the region strengthens existing friendships and builds new partnerships that will be critical to US national security for generations to come.” “The U.S. must continue to strengthen our enduring commitment to engage Asia’s growing powers,” Cardin said. “The high number of US activities we already have with our partners and allies in the region prove that, in many respects, we have already ‘rebalanced,’ said Senator Cardin. “On behalf of the American taxpayers, we should have an independent study to ensure that the US government is investing its precious resources in the most effective way possible. The Asia-Pacific region is a strategic long-term priority for America; we cannot allow recent crises elsewhere to distract us from continuing to ramp up our engagement.” “The rebalance to the Asia-Pacific is one of the most strategically farsighted and significant policies being pursued by the Obama Administration,” Menendez said. “Given the importance of the Asia-Pacific region to U.S. security and prosperity, it is an approach that enjoys broad bipartisan support. But its success will rise or fall on our ability to effectively and efficiently marshal resources across the entirety of the United States Government - not just for military activities, but for diplomacy, communication, cultural engagement and economic statecraft, too. This Amendment helps assure that we have the tools, focus, and dedication necessary to resource the rebalance appropriately.” ###
03.26.2015	03.26.15 Gardner-Coffman Legislation Stops VA Bonuses Until Aurora Hospital Complete Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today that he is introducing legislation holding the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) responsible for delays and overruns at the VA medical facility in Aurora, Colorado and ensuring that the project has the resources and competent management it needs to be completed. The VA Hospital Construction, Accountability, and Reform Act, identical to legislation being introduced in the House of Representatives by Representative Mike Coffman (R-CO), would authorize the amount of funding necessary to complete the hospital, transfer construction authority for the project from the VA to the Army Corps of Engineers, provide for an independent review of the project’s mismanagement up until this point, and prohibit the VA from awarding any bonuses until the Aurora facility is fully operational. “The VA paying out bonuses while veterans go without the care they need is completely unacceptable,” Gardner said. “This legislation would start to hold the VA accountable for their failures while also making sure that this critical facility is, at long last, completed. I’m grateful for Representative Coffman’s leadership on this issue, and I’m eager to work with him to ensure that Colorado veterans get the world-class care that they deserve.” “The massive VA mismanagement of this hospital is offensive to the veterans it is supposed to serve and offensive to the taxpayers funding the project,” said Coffman, a Marine Corps combat veteran. “My bill will help get the hospital built for the veterans who deserve the care it will provide, while holding the VA accountable for its failures and ensure this never happens again.” ###
03.26.2015	03.26.15 Gardner Amendment Protecting Water Rights Passes Senate Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner’s (R-CO) amendment to the Senate budget protecting state water rights was passed by a bipartisan majority Thursday night. The amendment passed on a 59-41 vote, and has been added to the Senate budget. The amendment would recognize the long-standing authority to manage water according to state law, and protect against federal takeover of water rights and permits. Earlier this week, Senator Gardner issued the following statement on his amendment: “Coloradans know best how to manage their own water resources. The ability of Coloradans to rely on state recognized water rights has been the foundation of Colorado agriculture, small business, outdoor recreation and local economies since the formation of our state in 1876. My amendment would protect states’ ability to govern their own water laws, and protect existing water rights and permits from any future meddling by the federal government.” ###
03.25.2015	03.25.15 Gardner Statement on Ashraf Ghani Address to Congress Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, issued the following statement regarding Afghan President Ashraf Ghani’s address to a joint meeting of Congress: “I’d like to thank President Ghani for his address today. Hearing the perspective of foreign leaders, especially our allies in a turbulent region, is vital to informing Congressional decision making and directing the course of our foreign policy. President Ghani is taking over leadership of his country at a critical crossroads, and his willingness to emphasize his close relationship with the United States hopefully bodes well for relations between our two countries. “Americans have sacrificed much to build the country that President Ghani now leads. Our men and women in uniform, and the families who serve alongside them, have endured over a decade of struggle in the fight for Afghanistan. They gave their blood, sweat, and, in too many cases, their lives for the cause of freedom in a faraway country. I’m glad that President Ghani seems to recognize the immense sacrifices the American military and American taxpayer have made on his nation’s behalf. “I’m hopeful that President Ghani’s election signifies progress in Afghanistan towards a more peaceful country and region. A strong, democratic Afghanistan can be a crucial partner in the struggle against radicalism in the Middle East, and the United States should do everything possible to encourage Afghanistan’s transformation into a modern, free state. Today’s address was a good step in that direction, and I hope many more will follow.” ###
03.25.2015	03.25.15 Gardner, Coons, Welch, Kinzinger Introduce Bipartisan Energy Efficiency Legislation Washington, DC – Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Chris Coons (D-DE) and Representatives Peter Welch (D-VT) and Adam Kinzinger (R-IL) announced today that they are introducing identical bipartisan bills in the Senate and House encouraging and expanding the use of Energy Savings Performance Contracts (ESPCs) and Utility Energy Service Contracts (UESCs) in federal government buildings. ESPCs and UESCs are innovative public-private partnerships in which private companies use their own money and resources to make energy-efficiency upgrades to federal buildings. In exchange for making those upgrades, those private companies receive a portion of the money saved as a result of the increased efficiency in federal buildings. ESPCs and UESCs create private sector jobs upgrading the federal government’s estimated three billion square feet of office space at no real cost to taxpayers. “The federal government is the largest consumer of energy in America,” Senator Gardner said. “Using ESPCs and UESCs to make the federal government more efficient while creating private sector jobs is the kind of commonsense solution that members of both parties can get behind. I’ve worked on this issue going back to my time in the House of Representatives and I made it one of the tenets of my Four Corners Plan for Colorado when I ran for Senate. I’m proud to join with my colleagues today and continue leading this effort.” “Saving energy and taxpayer money at the same time just makes sense, and I’m excited to move this bill forward with my colleagues from across the aisle and across the Capitol,” Senator Coons said. “All at once, this legislation will support local jobs, help the federal government save energy, and allow us to invest in clean energy, energy efficiency, and water conservation projects that are critical to our economic future.” “The federal government has over 3 billion square feet of building space and is the largest energy consumer in the country,” Representative Welch said. “This legislation would make federal buildings energy efficient while saving taxpayer dollars, improving the environment and create private sector jobs. In the previous Congress, the House demonstrated that energy efficiency is a practical idea that cuts through partisan gridlock. In this Congress, we’ll be redoubling our efforts to get bipartisan energy efficiency legislation on the President’s desk.” “Currently, the federal government is missing out on an estimated $20 billion in savings by continuing to run outdated, energy inefficient federal facilities,” Representative Kinzinger said. “The Energy Savings through Public Private Partnerships Act is a bipartisan, commonsense solution that is guaranteed to help end wasteful spending on inefficient energy programs in order to deliver savings to the American taxpayers who are footing these energy bills.” ###
03.25.2015	03.25.15 Gardner: “The VA Must Continue to Clean House” Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement regarding the resignation of Glenn Haggstrom, the Principal Executive Director in the Office of Acquisition, Logistics, and Construction at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA): “I’ve repeatedly called for accountability at the VA for those responsible for the construction delays, cost overruns, and repeated failures to meet deadlines at the Aurora facility. Today’s announcement is a long-overdue first step. Our veterans deserve better than the incompetence we’ve seen from the VA. “I will continue to press for the VA to replace those whose decisions have led to these failures with qualified and competent officials dedicated to serving those who have served our country. The time for excuses is over. The VA must continue to clean house, while swiftly completing the facility they promised and veterans need.” ###
03.23.2015	03.23.15 Gardner Statement on the Passing of Lee Kuan Yew Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity policy, released the following statement on the death of former Singaporean Prime Minister Lee Kuan Yew: “The world has lost a remarkable leader. Mr. Lee’s legacy as modern Singapore’s founding father and a statesman of towering stature will live on in his country for generations to come. In no small part due to his leadership, Singapore today is an economic power and highly influential actor in regional and world affairs. My thoughts today are with the people of Singapore as they mourn this loss and reflect on Mr. Lee’s extraordinary life.” ###
03.23.2015	03.23.15 Gardner: Five Years of Broken Obamacare Promises Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement on the fifth anniversary of the signing into law of President Obama’s healthcare law: “After five years of rising costs, losses of coverage, and repeated lies from the President and his allies about what their law would do, Coloradans and Americans continue to ask whether the broken promises of Obamacare have been worth the enormous cost. “The President and his allies in Congress sold their government takeover of healthcare on three primary promises. After five years, unfortunately, we now know that none of these promises were kept. “First, and most loudly, Americans were promised over and over again that his law would not cancel their current healthcare plans. If Americans liked their plans, they could keep their plans. Period. That was not true. Hundreds of thousands of Coloradans, myself included, had their plans cancelled, even if they liked them. Just recently, it was announced that another 190,000 Coloradans, who had been granted temporary reprieve from Obamacare cancellations, are going to lose their plans. This was a key selling point of this law, and five years later, we know it was a lie. “Second, Americans were promised that they could keep their doctors. This was also not true. Many of the thousands of Americans who lost their healthcare plans saw their access to doctors they knew and relied on vanish along with their plans. Even if they were able to obtain other coverage, their doctors may not have been available on that plan, or they may now be required to see a different doctor instead. And even when their plans provide the right coverage, studies have found that Obamacare increases wait times, leaving patients waiting longer to see the doctors they need to see. “Lastly, and most audaciously, Americans were promised that this legislation would control costs. This has proven false, both for individuals and for our entire healthcare system. President Obama said, explicitly, that he would lower healthcare costs for the average American family by $2,500 by the end of his first term. That was not true. A Brookings Institution study found that premiums in the individual insurance market grew 24.4% over what costs would have been without Obamacare, and other studies have found that some Colorado families have seen premium increases of up to 35%. Americans are paying more than ever for care that doesn’t necessarily meet all their needs. On a national scale, the most recent Congressional Budget Office estimate found that Obamacare increased mandatory government spending by roughly $1.7 trillion, which, if left unchanged, would leave future generations with a massive bill to pay. “We know our healthcare system is in need of reform. Pro-growth, market-based reforms that address rising costs while ensuring that Americans can get the coverage they need is an absolute necessity. But the past five years have taught us that Obamacare, passed on a strictly partisan vote without even being read by the people who were voting on it, is not the answer. I will continue to work to repeal this misguided law, and replace it with a plan that works for all Americans. After five years of broken promises, Americans and Coloradans deserve a healthcare system they can trust.” ###
03.19.2015	03.19.15 Gardner Presses for Answers on Injured Veterans' Caregivers Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced that he is following up on recent media reports of disproportionate denials of Department of Veterans Affairs caregiver benefits in the Rocky Mountain region, which includes Colorado. Senator Gardner’s letter, addressed to Robert A. McDonald, the Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs, reads: I write to request a full review by the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs of financial assistance denials in the Rocky Mountain region for injured soldiers’ caregivers. According to a recent report by the Denver Post, caregiver revocations “are occurring at a higher rate in the Rocky Mountain region, which includes Colorado, than in all but one of 21 regions in the nation.” Women and men in uniform returning from combat deserve the best care our country can provide. Often times that care is provided by “hidden heroes.” A study by the Rand Corporation last year estimated there are 1.1 million post-9/11 caregivers in the United States. These caregivers ultimately save the federal government billions of dollars per year. In addition to a full review of these cancellations, I request justification for why these cancellations are happening at a higher rate in the Rocky Mountain region, and if they are the result of ineffective information technology operations, which was highlighted in GAO’s “2015 High Risk List.” ###
03.18.2015	03.18.15 Gardner Energy Efficiency Language Included in Senate Budget Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced that the Senate budget released today includes language that he advocated for on Energy Savings Performance Contracts (ESPCs) and Utility Energy Service Contracts (UESCs). Senator Gardner had previously written a letter urging the Senate Budget Committee to address a budgetary issue which caused ESPCs and UESCs to be improperly scored as costing taxpayers money, when in fact they can save taxpayers millions of dollars while creating private-sector jobs. ESPCs and UESCs are innovative public-private partnerships in which private companies use their own money and resources to make energy-efficiency upgrades to federal buildings. In exchange for making those upgrades, those private companies receive a portion of the money saved as a result of the increased efficiency in federal buildings. “ESPCs and UESCs are innovative tools used to modernize our federal government,” Gardner said. “They create private sector jobs, increase the energy efficiency of federal buildings, and, best of all, save taxpayers money. It’s not surprising that government budget practices have been slow to catch up with innovative ideas like ESPCs and UESCs, but I’m happy to see that Senate budget rules now properly account for the full benefits that these contracts provide. There is still work to be done on this issue, as the House budget does not include this common sense fix. Including this language that I championed in the Senate budget, however, is a very important first step.” ###
03.17.2015	03.17.15 Gardner Delivers Maiden Speech on Senate Floor Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) delivered his maiden speech on the floor of the United States Senate today. Senator Gardner’s speech touched on a number of topics, including his upbringing in the small town of Yuma, Colorado, the importance of family, his Four Corners legislative agenda in the United States Senate, and his belief that through hard work, we can make a country worthy of the sacrifices of the generations who came before us. Video of Senator Gardner’s Speech is available here. The full text of Senator Gardner’s speech, as prepared, is below: In 1893, Katharine Lee Bates made her way up the slopes of Pikes Peak and first wrote the words to one of America’s greatest patriotic hymns, poeticizing purple mountain majesties and amber waves of grain. One-hundred years ago, Enos Mills helped preserve “mountain scenes of exceptional beauty and grandeur” giving to the country the crown jewel of American splendor, Rocky Mountain National Park. For over a century, visionaries like John Iliff helped settle the high plains of Colorado, described by Ian Frazier as a “heroic place.” An expanse of splendid isolation with unparalleled sense of space, and generations of pioneers. This is Colorado. From west to east and north to south, the beauty, heritage and vitality of Colorado calls and beckons across our nation and the world to those looking and longing for a place to call home. To live and work, to visit and vacation. Our love for Colorado drives us to be better stewards of the land. To reach for solutions to great challenges. And to find optimism in every vale and valley. For generations, we have challenged our sons and daughters to always look up – look up to that great Rocky Mountain horizon, as our ever-young state and ever-hopeful attitude lives peak to peak, the honor of living in the west, a land of opportunity and new beginnings. It is this constant drive for a better future for our great state and nation that leads me to the floor of the United States Senate to speak for the first time, where my duties as Colorado’s newest Senator begin, walking in the footsteps of Colorado’s first Senators Jerome Chaffee, and Henry Teller, and alongside my colleague Senator Michael Bennet. It is an incredible and heavy obligation to fulfill – to well and faithfully discharge the duties of the office, defending our Constitution with faith and allegiance to the rights we cherish. But an obligation and duty every person in Colorado expects us to not just fulfill, but to excel at – from Beecher Island to the Book Cliffs, from Fisher’s Peak to the Pawnee. Somewhere in between is my home town of Yuma, home to hardy pioneers that have seen the high plains through great success and record harvests, depression and dust bowls, drought and tragedy. Yet through it all, the good times and the challenges, it is still called home by generations who would live no where else. It is here in this little eastern plains town, weather worn and always thirsty, that Jaime and I are raising our children, Alyson, Thatcher, and Caitlyn, in a home that once belonged to their great-great grandparents and surrounded in town by family, Lala and Papa, great grandparents and more. No matter where across Colorado’s four corners you live, or across this great nation, we all hope for the same thing for our children. To live in a loving community that values every citizen, that they learn the value of hard work and perseverance. Where hard work is met with merited reward. That they find a nation of liberty and freedom that they help make a little more free and little more perfect. To carry on the tradition of our founding fathers – always endeavoring to be better tomorrow than they are today. Our nation has always understood that this endeavor isn’t something that is just passed on, hoping someone else does the work for us – it’s something we ourselves have to fight for today. We are responsible for the starting point we hand to the next generation – and we have a moral obligation to make it the best point possible, always advancing. To accomplish this I have laid out a Four Corners plan, representing all areas of Colorado and those issues that matter most to the people of this country. Growing our economy and getting this nation back to work in the kinds of jobs with the kind of salary that allows them to achieve their dreams, develop North American energy security while enhancing the protection and appreciation of our environment, and making sure we give our children the tools they need to succeed in a world growing both in its complexity and its interconnection. In rural America, we must work to not only keep the generations of families who grew up there on the farm and ranch, but find new ways to bring new families back to our farms, ranches and small towns. We must revitalize main streets that are slowly losing their place as the heart and soul of community, boarded up and forgotten. To do this, I will introduce legislation that will help provide ways to infuse new investments and life into rural communities, called the Rural Philanthropy Act. It will help struggling businesses find new private sector partners in their effort to serve their community, whether it’s a small town newspaper or a local clothing store, it will hope grow jobs and create more opportunities for start-ups and innovation. We must look to reimagine burdensome rules and regulations that tie the hands of people who want to start a business by revitalizing a main street and breathing new life into a tired city block. Doing good things shouldn’t be so difficult and we need a government that recognizes this. Colorado’s economy will also benefit from value added trade opportunities with the passage of new trade agreements opening new markets and eliminating barriers to growing markets. I will work to ensure small businesses have the resources they need to participate in trade, making sure the benefit of new markets doesn’t just stop at the biggest corporations. Through my First in Space Initiative we will focus on policies that promote and grow Colorado’s leading aerospace economies, launching new jobs in space, engineering and aeronautics. And a healthy economy means everyone benefits, not just those who already have found success. That is why I will work to expand the Earned Income Tax Credit. By eliminating the waste, fraud and abuse all too common within the EITC we can save billions of dollars and then use that money to expand the credit, making a program that has already helped lift millions of people out of poverty do even more good for people throughout Colorado, and in our urban centers. Measuring a successful economy shouldn’t simply be a matter of looking to see whether the haves have more, but what policies we have put in place that actually help the poor lift themselves up. We are living in a veneered economy – while the numbers on Wall Street look good and profits are looking up, scratch the surface and too many people continue to suffer. Endlessly searching for jobs they desperately need, earning the kinds of salary their family needs to keep afloat. While parts of Colorado may be succeeding, others are struggling. True success means every part of our state’s economy flourishes. Thanks to our state’s energy economy, parts of the state that seemed to have been left behind are now thriving. A national policy geared toward North American energy independence will not only boost jobs and provide abundant and affordable energy upon which our economy relies, but it will boost our national security by providing our allies abroad with an energy partner that presents an alternative to regimes like Russia and Iran. I look forward to continuing my push for an expedited export process for LNG, allowing Mesa and La Plata County energy producers the opportunity to play a leading role in national security while creating jobs at home. Common sense Colorado energy solutions also means focusing on renewable energy as well – harnessing the winds in Weld, the sun in the San Luis, and the power of water in the west, we can lessen pollution and help clean up our air. Working across the aisle with Senator Chris Coons from Delaware, I will focus on Energy Savings Performance Contracts, an often overlooked private sector tool that has the potential to create thousands of jobs and save the taxpayer billions of dollars while reducing pollution. Reducing pollution and protecting our environment is a cornerstone of Colorado. I look forward to working with Congressman Scott Tipton on legislation to help preserve and restore our great forest lands, and to protect Colorado landscapes. Whether its healthy forest legislation, reducing the maintenance backlog in our national parks, or finding collaborative solutions to challenging land conflicts, we owe it to future generations of Coloradans to pass on an environment that is cleaner than the one we inherited from previous generations. And future generations of Coloradans also deserve the opportunity to receive an education befitting of a great nation. Whether that’s fighting to restore local control to states, school districts, and parents, or working to help make the dream of college a reality, our future depends on our ability to provide the skills and training for the next generation of leaders and entrepreneurs. I will continue my work on legislation called the “Making College Affordable Act.” This bill will help families save for college and meet expenses in primary and secondary education. I look forward to promoting STEM education opportunities and transforming our immigration system from one that sends the best and brightest foreign students back home to compete against us, to one that allows them the opportunity to stay here in the United States to create jobs and innovations that we will continue to benefit from. No doubt over the next six years many issues will arise that fall outside of these Four Corner issues and I look forward to meeting every one of these challenges by finding new opportunities that will help make Colorado a better place. I look forward to working with Congressman Mike Coffman to finish the VA Hospital in Aurora, a hospital earned through sacrifice but tarnished by delay. But when it is completed, it will give veterans a far better place for the care they deserve. And that always must be our focus – making Colorado and the United States a better place. Giving the people of this country the confidence that we can work together to achieve common goals, to strive for brighter horizons, to deliver to the American people a government they can be proud of again. And I will work with Senator Bennet and anyone who is committed to those common goals. Too many people believe government can no longer address the great challenges of our time. An $18 trillion debt, mounting entitlement costs, a healthcare crisis that continues well into the new century and seemingly overwhelming foreign policy challenges. Some leaders would try to have us believe that we can’t do anything about it, that a managed decline is better than rapid decline. The American people know better. They don’t have to, and indeed they will not, accept second best. A government that we can be proud of is one that solves the greatest challenges of our time, balances our budget, puts in place solutions that rise above the rhetoric. A government we can be proud of again means an America always advancing and never in retreat. Our search for solutions, our search for a government we can be proud of, comes from the common bond, regardless of color, gender, or creed, and yes, even party, that we as Americans all hold -the shared story of our lives, the unrelenting American spirit. This is the American story. We owe our nation to the sacrifices made by millions of men and women for freedom, for each other, to countless generations in the past and present who have worn a uniform in defense of our nation. A nation made exceptional by pioneering people - a nation of innovation and opportunity, a nation that imagines and inspires, a nation that rises above – to be better tomorrow than we are today. I grew up working at the family implement dealership, a family business started by my great-grandfather 100 hundred years ago. Sweeping the floors and cleaning the bathrooms, I learned about the struggles businesses face. I learned about the employees who made the business function, how to make sure these hard working men and women were successful so they could meet their aspirations, because when they were successful we were all successful. I learned from my grandma, a real life Rosie the Riveter, who welded liberty ships during World War II alongside her husband, my grandpa. They gave up everything, moving their family and all they had in life to be a part of the effort to win the war and to provide their four children with the opportunity to succeed and build their own families in a free world. A few weeks ago, when going through some old pictures buried in a random collection of endless boxes, we discovered a stack of letters that were written by my grandfather to his parents and to my grandmother during World War II. The letters, some written in near perfect cursive, others pecked out on an old fashioned hammer strike typewriter – no doubt the same kind of typewriter he would use until his final years working at the dealership. In the letters he talked about his loneliness for home, new friends he had made, questions about his young son, and the new countries he was visiting, France and beyond. I’d like to share one of those letters today because it shares part of our American story. It was written on the 15th of August 1945: Dear Folks, Aha, that day, 14 August, is indeed a history making day, and last night at twelve o’clock when at last all the rumors were confirmed that the world was at peace I said a silent prayer and know that it won’t be long until we are all together again. If you pull those reigns hard enough maybe I will be home for Xmas mother, certainly have a good chance of making it now, although anything can still happen and there are thousands of miles to cover, but one can’t help but be optimistic. What it must have felt like to know that the war you had been fighting, the war that had consumed the world and taken our nation’s young men and women thousands of miles away from home, was over, to have received word that the “rumors were confirmed that the world was at peace.” And after years of battle and weariness and a silent prayer, the optimism of one soldier – and that soldier’s nation – persevered. There are countless families across this country who share a similar story to my grandfather. One of their aunts or uncles, parents or siblings. People who have shared the honor and obligation of wearing a uniform for the United States of America and all the responsibility that comes along with it. They are people we will most likely never meet, nor will we ever be able to fully thank them all, but still they fought for us. Through the words of one simple letter, we recognize the power of peace over conflict, of love for family and country. A silent prayer no doubt of thanks, thanks for answering so many other silent prayers, silent prayers asking for a day of peace and homecoming. What it must have been like to know that that great darkness of war which threatened freedom not for some, but for all, had finally come to an end. And just like that, you’ll be home as if nothing ever happened. Somewhere in that silent prayer, under the new calm of a war torn horizon, was the thanksgiving of a soldier for his victorious nation. A soldier looking to go home a civilian to live out his life dreams far away from war and in the arms of his family. And while we may disagree on the details of policy or the tactics of direction, let us make no mistake in our charge – to ensure we have a nation that is worthy of the sacrifice so many have made. To refuse to pass on to future generations a nation in retreat or decline. To make sure ours is a nation always worth fighting for. Because this is Colorado. This is the United States of America. ###
03.17.2015	03.17.15 Gardner, Peters Introduce Legislative Package of Bipartisan Cost-Saving Measures WASHINGTON, DC –U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Gary Peters (D-MI) today introduced two bills that would help reduce wasteful government spending and cut the deficit. The Congressional Oversight to Start Taxpayer Savings Resolution (COST Savings Resolution) and the Expedited Consideration of Cuts, Consolidations and Savings Act of 2015 will save taxpayer dollars and make government more effective and efficient by helping eliminate duplicative or overlapping programs and by requiring Congress to debate and vote on spending cuts proposed in the President’s annual budget. “These bills will help reduce wasteful government spending,” Senator Gardner said. “The government is already spending time and money producing reports on wasteful spending, but these reports are too often ignored in Congress. Reports that just collect dust instead of action do no good when it comes to solving our nation's greatest challenges. By forcing Congress to take action, these bills would save taxpayer money and keep us from needlessly adding to our already-massive national debt.” “Congress has a duty to be good stewards of taxpayer dollars and ensure they are being used efficiently,” said Senator Peters. “I’m proud to introduce these bipartisan, commonsense bills to help streamline government and ensure that it is running efficiently and effectively for hard-working families in Michigan and across the country. Finding ways to cut costs and save taxpayer money is an area where members of both parties can find common ground, and I look forward to working with my Senate colleagues to reduce wasteful spending.” The COST Savings Resolution would require Congressional committees to hold oversight hearings on the Government Accountability Office’s (GAO) Annual Report of Opportunities to Reduce Fragmentation, Overlap and Duplication and the GAO High Risk List. The bill directs Congressional committees to take into account recommendations on how to improve the effectiveness of government programs and eliminate unnecessary costs caused by duplicative federal programs, as well as vulnerabilities for waste, fraud, and abuse and the need for transformation of government programs. The 2014 GAO annual report identified 26 areas across the federal government where Congress could eliminate duplicative programs and improve efficiency and effectiveness, as well as 15 areas where Congress could reduce the cost of government operations. For example, a previous GAO report found that there were multiple agencies in charge of inspecting catfish for human consumption. Streamlining catfish inspection under one agency could save millions of taxpayer dollars without compromising public safety. The 2015 GAO High Risk List identified 32 areas that are at high risk due to vulnerabilities for fraud, waste, abuse and mismanagement, or are most in need of transformation. The COST Savings Resolution would ensure that Congress acts on these reports produced by GAO. The Expedited Consideration of Cuts, Consolidations and Savings Act of 2015 would require Congress to consider, debate and vote on deficit reduction recommendations from the Cuts, Consolidations, and Savings report, which is part of the President’s annual budget that includes recommendations from the Administration to reduce the deficit. The Cuts, Consolidations and Savings report for fiscal year 2016 identifies more than $14 billion in possible cuts and reductions in federal spending. The Expedited Consideration of Cuts, Consolidations and Savings Act of 2015 would allow the White House to send Congress a list of proposed cuts or savings which Congress must then vote to accept or reject. If cuts and consolidations on this year’s list passed, they would save a projected $110 billion by 2025. ###
03.13.2015	03.13.15 Gardner Statement on Mass Healthcare Cancellations Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement on the decision of the Colorado Division of Insurance (DOI) to cancel nearly two hundred thousand healthcare plans despite having the authority to allow them to continue: “I am utterly appalled by this announcement. After all of the glitches, the increased costs and premiums, and the plan cancellations that Coloradans have already endured, the idea that the Division of Insurance would choose to cancel the healthcare plans of hundreds of thousands more people is unconscionable. “Last year, I urged Governor Hickenlooper’s administration to pursue any legal avenue to allow insurance providers to keep these plans for the foreseeable future. They listened at that time, and DOI had all the authority it needed to keep these plans around for at least another year, allowing individuals and families more of the time they need to adjust to this onerous new healthcare law. But DOI has decided to end these plans instead, forcing thousands of Coloradans to deal with the cancellation of their insurance. “Once again, Coloradans are suffering from the effects of President Obama’s ill-conceived healthcare law. I continue to support fully repealing this law and replacing it with common-sense, market-driven legislation that could address the need for expanded health insurance coverage while keeping costs down. Until the law is repealed, however, we must do everything we can to ensure that Coloradans do not suffer needlessly because of it. “I strongly urge DOI to reconsider their position and allow those Coloradans who would be affected by this decision to keep their healthcare plans. Coloradans were promised by supporters of this healthcare law that if they liked their plans, they could keep their plans. DOI should follow through on that promise, and prove that last year’s extension wasn't simply an empty election year ploy to fool people into believing they were going to be able to keep the insurance they were promised.” ###
03.12.2015	03.12.15 Rubio, Gardner Urge Investigation into North Korea’s Role in Assault on US Ambassador Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), who serves as the Chairman of the Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy, and Senator Marco Rubio (R-FL), who served as chairman of the subcommittee in the 113th Congress, announced today that they have sent a letter to Secretary of State John Kerry urging a full investigation, conducted in conjunction with our South Korean allies, into the March 4th assault on Mark Lippert, the United States Ambassador to South Korea. The letter reads, in full: We write to express our dismay regarding the assault that took place on March 4 on our Ambassador to the Republic of Korea, Mark Lippert, and extend our thoughts and prayers for his speedy recovery. We are relieved that Ambassador Lippert was discharged from the hospital on March 10. We are disturbed by reports of North Korea’s possible involvement in this cowardly attack. As you know, Kim Ki-jong, the suspect in custody, was allegedly protesting the planned joint military exercises between the United States and South Korea and shouted “anti-American, anti-imperialist” slogans as he attacked Ambassador Lippert. North Korea's official KCNA news agency subsequently praised the attack "deserved punishment" and "the knife of justice" in retribution for the planned exercises. According to Yonhap News Agency, South Korean intelligence sources said the suspect visited North Korea six times between 2006 and 2007 and “also tried to erect a memorial altar in late 2011 for late North Korean leader Kim Jong-il in the heart of Seoul.” Kim was also found guilty of assault against the Japanese Ambassador in South Korea in 2010 and was given a suspended sentence. We call on you to work closely with South Korea’s diplomatic, intelligence and law enforcement agencies to uncover possible further details of North Korea’s role in this attack. We further ask you to regularly brief the Senate Foreign Relations Committee on the status of the investigation, the formulation for an appropriate U.S. policy response, and your efforts to improve security for our personnel in South Korea. ###
03.12.2015	03.12.15 Gardner Urges Restart of H-2B Visa Program Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today that he has sent a letter to the Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and the Secretary of the Department of Labor (DOL) urging them to end suspension of the H-2B visa program. H-2B visas allow U.S. employers to temporarily bring foreign workers to the United States to fill seasonal or intermittent nonagricultural jobs, and both the Department of Labor and the Department of Homeland security play a role in the visa’s issuance. A federal judge recently ordered a dismissal of certain regulations related to the visa program which had been issued by DOL in 2008. The court ruled that DOL lacked the authority to issue those regulations. In response to that ruling, DHS stopped accepting and processing H-2B applications. “The Departments of Labor and Homeland Security are acting completely irresponsibly, jeopardizing a critical tool for Colorado businesses because the Departments were incapable of getting their legal ducks in a row,” Gardner said. “There was no reason to shut down this entire visa program as a reaction to this court ruling, and these departments’ actions have blindsided many Colorado businesses who rely on these visas. I’m urging the Departments of Labor and Homeland Security to quickly work to restart this program, and to stop punishing Colorado businesses.” A copy of Senator Gardner’s full letter is available here. ###
03.09.2015	03.09.15 Gardner Sends Message to Iranian Leaders Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today that he, along with 46 other Senators, has signed an open letter to the leaders of Iran regarding negotiations with the United States about their nuclear program. The letter clarifies for Iranian leaders our constitutional system of government, and makes clear that any deal between President Obama and Ayatollah Khamenei that is not approved by the U.S. Congress could easily be modified or revoked in the future. “I want the leaders of Iran’s regime, the world’s leading state sponsor of terrorism, to know that no deal with the United States will be considered permanent without the approval of the Congress,” Gardner said. “The American people, through their representatives in Congress, will reject any deal that does not completely eliminate the threat of a nuclear Iran.” The full text of the signed letter can be read here. ###
03.05.2015	03.05.15 Gardner Presses Loretta Lynch For Answers Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today that he has sent a letter to Loretta Lynch, President Obama’s nominee to be Attorney General, demanding answers to pressing legal questions. Gardner’s letter asks that Ms. Lynch clarify her positions on several issues, including the President’s refusal to enforce federal law, the Administration’s proposed assault on the Second Amendment, and the privacy of American citizens. The questions read, in part: Does prosecutorial discretion allow the executive branch to unilaterally decide not to enforce congressionally-enacted laws? If so, where does the boundary between legislative and executive authority lie when there is no question of the underlying law’s constitutionality? Does the ATF have the authority to ban ammunition that is intended and used primarily for sporting purposes? Or is this yet another example of executive overreach and improper infringement of Americans’ Second Amendment rights? Is the Washington Post correct in reporting that the FBI is pressuring state and local law enforcement to keep Stingray technology secret? Does the use of such technology represent an invasion of Americans’ Fourth Amendment privacy rights? The full text of the letter and all questions can be read here. ###
03.05.2015	03.05.15 Gardner Supports Industrial Hemp Legalization Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today that he is co-sponsoring the Industrial Hemp Farming Act of 2015, introduced by Senators Ron Wyden (D-OR), Jeff Merkley (D-OR), Mitch McConnell (R-KY), and Rand Paul (R-KY). This legislation would legalize industrial hemp for commercial use by excluding industrial hemp from the definition of marijuana in the Controlled Substances Act. “Industrial hemp is a safe substance with many practical commercial applications,” Gardner said. “Removing it from the Controlled Substances Act is a commonsense move which would create jobs and get the government out of the way of farmers and our agricultural industry. “Hemp has the potential to be a major boon to Colorado agriculture, giving farmers another viable and profitable option for their fields. As a plant which takes relatively little water to grow, hemp could be an ideal fit for our climate in particular. I’m excited to co-sponsor this legislation and further empower the farmers who provide so much to our state.” ###
03.04.2015	03.04.15 Gardner Announces $10 Million Flood Recovery Grant Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today that Colorado has received a $10 million grant from the Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). This award provides federal funding to Colorado DHS and Emergency Management to aid recovery efforts from Colorado’s 2013 floods. “This award will help in the ongoing effort to rebuild after the devastating floods of 2013,” Gardner said. “Colorado taxpayers fund FEMA every year with their hard-earned dollars, and I’m glad that FEMA has recognized that it owes Colorado flood victims their full support. Funding, of course, will never bring back all that we lost in those floods. But Colorado is rebuilding and recovering, and grants like the one announced today will aid in that effort.” ###
03.04.2015	03.04.15 Gardner Legislation Protects Disaster Victims From FEMA Clawbacks Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today that he is introducing the Disaster Assistance Fairness and Accountability Act of 2015. This legislation is designed to protect disaster victims, including Coloradans affected by the 2013 floods, from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) aid clawbacks. Under current law, FEMA can go back to disaster victims who have been approved for and received aid and retroactively change its aid determination, demanding that the recipient return the funds. FEMA is currently authorized to conduct these clawbacks without any statute of limitations, and victims could be forced to prove again that they deserved the aid that they applied for and were awarded. This legislation would prohibit FEMA from clawing back aid to those who filled out accurate reports and had a reasonable expectation of receiving aid. It would treat victims as innocent until proven guilty, requiring FEMA to prove that the applicant had made an error or committed fraud on their application for aid. And it sets a statute of limitations of three years for disaster recoupment. This legislation is nearly identical to bipartisan language introduced in the House of Representatives by Representative Tom MacArthur (R-NJ). “Disaster victims have suffered enough,” Gardner said. “Victims don’t need the prospect of the federal government coming back to them, years after they’ve had to rebuild their lives, demanding a return of the aid that had been appropriately granted. “Nothing in this legislation stops FEMA from recouping money from anyone who has defrauded FEMA and the American taxpayer. We must be extremely diligent in seeking out and prosecuting those who would use a time of crisis for their own personal enrichment. “This legislation would ensure that disaster victims are treated fairly. Colorado flood victims deserve that. Victims of disasters across this country deserve that. It’s time to make it happen.” The full text of the legislation can be read here. ###
03.03.2015	03.03.15 Gardner to Obama: No Executive Tax Increases Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) sent a letter today to President Barack Obama urging him to reject calls by some in Congress for executive actions increasing taxes. The letter further urges the President to slow the tide of unilateral executive orders on a variety of topics, arguing that these actions undermine our constitutional system of government. The letter reads, in part: I worry that unilateral action, publicly justified by your spokesperson as a response to an obstinate Congress and dependent upon an improper expansion of executive power, is becoming standard practice under this Administration. Recent executive actions on immigration, for example, disregard congressionally-enacted statutes. Agency-promulgated regulations, such as a recent ban on AR-15 ammunition used for sporting purposes, are infringing upon individual rights enshrined in the Constitution. And Supreme Court decisions rebuking the Administration and protecting the powers of the legislature, such as NLRB v. Noel Canning, seem to barely slow the inexorable march towards an unchecked executive. Just as troubling are recent reports that your Administration is exploring ways in which it can implement new tax revenues without the support of either house of Congress. The power of the purse is one of the most basic powers held by our legislature and traces its roots back to the British Parliament, which held the power to levy taxes and spend money as a check against the monarchy. Today, it is the most effective check on executive authority in this country. By unilaterally rewriting the country’s tax code to implement your preferred policies, the executive branch would encroach upon this long-standing legislative power and undermine the separate, co-equal institutions that have served the American people well for hundreds of years. I urge you to abandon your current course and publicly reject calls to act unilaterally on tax policy. The full text of the letter can be read here. ###
03.03.2015	03.03.15 Gardner Statement on Benjamin Netanyahu’s Address Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement on Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s address to a joint meeting of Congress today: “Prime Minister Netanyahu gave an incredibly important address to the United States Congress today. He emphasized the threat that a nuclear Iran would pose to Israel and America, and made it clear that any deal that gives the Iranian regime a path to nuclear weapons is unacceptable. His clear-headed analysis of Iran as the world’s leading sponsor of terror dedicated to the destruction of Israel and America provides crucial context for ongoing negotiations. The United States must make the safety and security of our ally Israel a top priority of our foreign policy. We cannot allow the tentacles of terror the appearance of an opportunity to do harm to America and its allies.” ###
03.02.2015	03.02.15 Gardner, Coons Fight for Energy Efficiency Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today that he is urging the Senate Budget Committee to address a long-standing budgetary practice which threatens beneficial legislation on Energy Savings Performance Contracts (ESPCs) and Utility Energy Service Contracts (UESCs). ESPCs and UESCs are innovative public-private partnerships in which private companies bear the cost of making energy-efficiency upgrades to federal buildings in exchange for a portion of the savings that come from the decrease in energy and utility costs. Currently, the Congressional Budget Office’s (CBO) cost estimates do not properly account for the savings that are created by ESPCs and UESCs, and therefore fail to recognize the full benefits of these contracts. Instead, CBO estimates view these contracts as having a net negative impact on the budget, even though the contracts save taxpayers money. The Executive Branch’s budget office, the Office of Management and Budget, disagrees with the CBO’s methods and more accurately assesses the benefits of these contracts. Senator Gardner, along with Senator Coons (D-DE), is sending a letter to the Senate Budget Committee urging them to address ESPC and UESC scoring issues during the upcoming Budget Resolution discussions or through other similar avenues. The letter reads, in part: ESPCs and UESCs provide the federal government with a vital alternative financing mechanism. These long-term contracts enable agencies to procure energy services and projects without relying solely on appropriated funds. At no added cost to the government, ESPCs and UESCs assist agencies and installations in reducing their energy intensity and improving their energy efficiency. These innovative contracts also require the assurance of financial savings in the agreement. Since their inception in 1992, ESPCs and UESCs have achieved over $13 billion in energy savings across the federal government… …Bipartisan and bicameral efforts are underway to help resolve the divide between CBO and OMB scoring practices in order to promote these alternative financing opportunities at the federal level. We urge you to address ESPC and UESC scoring issues in the Budget Resolution or other avenues. This scoring anomaly has hindered bipartisan legislation that could reduce federal energy expenditures permanently. Click HERE to read the letter in its entirety. ###
03.02.2015	03.02.15 Gardner Calls For Russian Accountability in Nemtsov Murder Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and the Subcommittee On Europe and Regional Security Cooperation, announced today that he is an original co-sponsor of a resolution condemning the tragic murder of Russian opposition leader Boris Nemtsov and calling for a swift, transparent, and full international investigation into this crime. Additionally, the resolution calls on the Obama Administration to add the names of persons identified by Mr. Nemtsov to the visa ban list provided for by existing Russian sanctions, encourages the Administration to send a high level U.S. delegation to Mr. Nemtsov’s funeral service, and urges greater support for freedom-promoting partners in Russia to combat the growing totalitarian influence of President Vladimir Putin. “The murder of Boris Nemtsov is another tragic reminder of how far off the path towards a free and open society Russia has fallen,” Gardner said. “Boris Nemtsov was a courageous figure in Russia’s opposition, and his dedication to the fight against corruption and in support of basic human rights should not go unnoticed. The world deserves a full account of the circumstances surrounding his death, and not just a sham hunt for the ‘real killer’ orchestrated out of the Kremlin. “A clear message must be sent to the Russian people from the people of the United States: We mourn the loss of this great humanitarian activist, we hear your calls for freedom and liberty, and we are forever your ally in the fight for a more just, open, and democratic society.” ###
03.02.2015	03.02.15 Gardner Language Included in Bipartisan Sportsmen's Package Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today that he is co-sponsoring the bipartisan Sportsmen’s Act of 2015. Contained within the Act is language authored by Senator Gardner and Senator Fischer (R-NE) which would require a public accounting of the taxpayer funds distributed to litigants who bring successful claims against the federal government. “The Sportsmen’s Package is a key piece of legislation which ensures that sportsmen’s ability to hunt and fish will not be arbitrarily impeded when on public lands,” Gardner said. “The bill protects the rights of hunters and sportsmen, ensuring that the federal government does not encroach on their rights. Further, the bill promotes recreational opportunities for all members of the public on the lands that their taxpayer dollars go to protect. “I’m proud to support the Sportsmen’s Package, and I’m glad that the bill includes the language I authored along with Senator Fischer on reforming the Judgment Fund. Currently, the information available to the public about the money that the federal government pays out in lawsuits is woefully lacking in transparency. This language would change that, promoting transparency in the Judgment Fund and helping curb abuse of this fund by groups continually suing the federal government.” ###
02.27.2015	02.27.15 Gardner Statement on DHS and President Obama’s Executive Orders on Immigration Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement on today’s votes in the United States Senate to fund the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and oppose President Obama’s executive orders on immigration: “These executive orders have been halted, and the issue is firmly in the hands of the courts. It is my belief and hope that in the courts, these executive orders will be found unconstitutional. “I am opposed to these executive orders. I voted four times for a DHS funding bill which would have defunded these orders. I voted to overturn the President’s orders in the House, through a bill sponsored by Representative Yoho. I voted to advance a bill to overturn them again today in the Senate. My preference would have been for those bills to pass. Obstructionist Democrats blocked each of these efforts. “I will continue to oppose the President’s executive actions at every single turn. Shutting down the Department of Homeland Security would only give President Obama another crisis to exploit for his own political gain. I won’t play that game, and I won’t allow our national security to be jeopardized in an era of rising threats from Islamic extremism. The dangers we face are real. There are forces in this world working every day to try to bring harm to America and American citizens. “Ensuring national security is the single most important job the federal government has. Shutting down DHS would put that crucial mission in jeopardy, and could have disastrous consequences for our nation. Homeland security is too important to be used as a vehicle for political disputes. Today, I voted to fight the President’s overreach, and I also voted to fund Homeland Security. I stand by those votes.” ###
02.26.2015	02.26.15 Gardner Decries Obama's Internet Takeover Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement on the Federal Communication Commission’s (FCC) 3-2 vote approving broad new federal internet regulations: “It is extremely disappointing that the FCC has chosen this route. Instead of working with Congress to come up with a smart, permanent, legislative solution, the theoretically-independent FCC has pushed through President Obama’s internet takeover plan on a purely partisan vote. Once again, the Obama administration is ignoring the proper lawmaking process and opting for unilateral action. The internet has been a critical source of innovation, entrepreneurship, and economic development in our country. Now that the heavy hand of government regulation has inserted itself into the web, that progress is threatened. “The FCC has chosen a path that leads to lawsuits, protracted disputes, and bad results for internet users. Worse, they did this without presenting their plan to the public before voting on it. I will pursue every legislative path available to fight this takeover, and I hold out hope that a solution which protects users while ensuring that our internet economy thrives can be reached.” ###
02.26.2015	02.26.15 Gardner Legislation Fights Domestic Trafficking Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today successfully led an effort to fight human trafficking, as part of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee’s consideration of the End Modern Slavery and Trafficking Initiative Act of 2015 (S.553), a bill introduced by Senator Corker (R-TN), the Chairman of the committee. Gardner’s amendment to the bill, which passed by voice vote, highlights the alarming rates of human trafficking in the U.S. and calls for increased cooperation among all federal, state, and local governments, law enforcement, non-profits, and private stakeholders to eradicate modern-day slavery from our land. The Senate Foreign Relations Committee advanced the bill, as amended, by voice vote and it now awaits consideration before the full Senate. “While it is important to fight human trafficking abroad, we must first emphasize the importance of leading by example from home,” Gardner said. “At least 100,000 children in the United States are commercially sexually exploited, while as many as 300,000 children are at risk of commercial sexual exploitation. A Department of Justice-funded study in 2012 estimated that there may be as many as 2.5 million workers in the US who are victimized by traffickers. This situation is unacceptable and it should be the policy of the United States to eradicate this evil within our own borders in order to shine a light for our efforts abroad. “During the committee’s hearings, I highlighted the work of organizations like the Colorado Organization for Victim Assistance (COVA), who are committed to the fight against domestic human trafficking and provide a model for successful federal and local cooperation. Human trafficking anywhere is a tragedy, and, leading by example, we can move towards ending modern slavery once and for all.” ###
02.24.2015	02.24.15 Gardner: "President Obama Ignored the American People" Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement on President Obama's veto of the bipartisan bill to build the Keystone XL pipeline: "Last November, Coloradans and Americans voted for a change. They voted for a Congress that could work together and pass legislation that benefits all of us. Unfortunately, with his veto of the bill to build the Keystone XL pipeline, President Obama ignored November’s vote, and ignored the will of the American people. “I was proud to support this legislation. This pipeline would create thousands of jobs, reduce our dependence on overseas oil, and deliver needed energy directly from a close ally to our own economy. Further, the President's own State Department said that the pipeline would have a minimal environmental impact, especially considering the likelihood that if the pipeline isn't built, this oil would just be shipped via tanker to willing buyers like China. "The President’s decision to veto this legislation is incredibly disappointing. Members of both parties in both houses of Congress came together to support this bill because it was the right thing to do. The President chose politics over practicality and liberal donors over American jobs. I'll support a vote to overturn his veto, and I'll continue to work on more bipartisan legislation that creates jobs and opportunity for all Americans. Hopefully when those bills get to the President's desk, he'll sign them.” ###
02.23.2015	02.23.15 Gardner Condemns Months-Long Port Slowdown Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) made the following statement on the agreement reached this weekend between a dockworkers union and a group of shipping companies which brought to an end the recent West Coast port slowdown: “This slowdown had disastrous consequences for businesses, consumers, and the entire economy,” Gardner said. “I’m glad that the ports will soon be operating at full speed, and look forward to the ports starting to address the massive backload that has built up over the past few months. “While I’m glad that this shutdown is over, I’m concerned about the fact that it ever occurred at all. One union has irresponsibly held the American economy hostage. Colorado’s economy suffered needlessly because of this slowdown, and it’s my hope that this kind of reckless negotiation is never again allowed to impact the thousands of small business and middle class families that this dispute did.” ###
02.23.2015	02.23.15 Gardner Demands Hearing at Denver VA Facility Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today that he is leading a letter with Senator Michael Bennet (D-CO) urging the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee to organize a visit and site hearing at the Eastern Colorado Health Care System Replacement Facility, also known as the Denver Replacement Facility. Construction of the Denver Replacement Facility has been plagued by management and financial issues, including a $400 million overrun from the original contract price. The U.S. Civilian Board of Contract Appeals found that the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) failed to meet its contractual obligations, and incorrectly designed a project costing more than one billion dollars. The Board also found that the VA did not have sufficient funds to pay for construction, had no plans to request additional resources, and owed the contractor over $150 million in past costs. A solution allowing for the satisfactory completion of the facility has not been reached. “The VA has failed Colorado veterans over and over again, and this mismanagement of the construction of the Denver Replacement facility is just the latest example,” Gardner said. “It is critical that the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee organizes a visit and a site hearing at the facility to gain a better understanding of how the VA’s failures are harming Colorado veterans. I urge them to come to Denver, and I will do everything I can to come up with a solution that protects taxpayers, gets this project completed, and, most importantly, provides the 700,000 veterans in the Rocky Mountain region the world-class care that they deserve.” ###
02.20.2015	02.20.15 Gardner Takes On Sanction Evasion by the Lukashenka Dictatorship in Belarus Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) is urging the Obama Administration to investigate the evasion of U.S. sanctions by the Belarus state-owned potash company, Belaruskali, which has allowed this entity to resume exports of potash to the United States. The Department of Treasury has written to Senator Gardner to say that it will “evaluate the sanctions with respect to Belarus to ensure that they are fully implemented.” Senator Gardner plans to meet with top officials from the Department of Treasury to press the matter in the near future. In 2006, the U.S. Government imposed sanctions against specified individuals and entities in Belarus in response to human rights abuses being perpetrated by the regime of President Alyaksandr Lukashenka. Less than a year later, the U.S. Government added Belneftekhim Concern, a state-owned consortium of companies in the petrochemical and chemical sectors, as Specially Designated Nationals (SDNs), a designation which generally prohibits U.S. persons from dealing with that entity. Despite U.S. sanctions, the human rights situation in Belarus has not improved. The Department of State’s 2013 report on human rights in Belarus stated that Belarus is an “authoritarian state”, where “human rights problems included abuses by security forces, which beat detainees and protesters and reportedly used torture or mistreatment during investigations.” The report concludes: “Authorities at all levels operated with impunity and failed to take steps to prosecute or punish officials in the government or security forces who committed human rights abuses.” In February 2014, the Lukashenko Government spun Belaruskali out from under the Belneftekhim Concern umbrella. Press reports at the time quoted Belarus government officials as saying that this maneuver was intended specifically to evade U.S. sanctions. Upon learning of this evasion, Senator Gardner sent a letter to the Department of Treasury Secretary Jack Lew and Secretary of State John Kerry, expressing his concern that the United States Government should not permit the Lukashenka Government to evade sanctions. Other Members of Congress have expressed their concern as well, calling for action to address this situation. Today, Senator Gardner reiterated his concerns, calling on the Administration to immediately investigate this matter. “There is little evidence that the Lukashenko regime has ceased abusing the human rights of its own people, but ample evidence that it is trying all means to avoid the punishment it deserves. I call on the Administration to investigate the Belaruskali matter swiftly and thoroughly, and if determined that sanctions evasion has occurred, to immediately impose U.S. sanctions on Belaruskali. I’m glad that the Treasury Department has said it’s investigating this matter, and will continue to press for updates and more information.” A copy of Senator Gardner’s original letter to Secretary Lew and Secretary Kerry is available here. ###
02.18.2015	02.18.15 Gardner Highlights Impact of Ports Slowdown on Colorado Businesses Jake Jabs and Others Back Gardner Effort to End Port Slowdown Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), following up on his letter to the Secretaries of Labor and Commerce demanding that they take action on the West Coast ports slowdown, today highlighted the negative impact that the union slowdown is having on Colorado businesses. “Businesses across Colorado rely on West Coast ports for exports and imports,” Gardner said. “This unconscionable slowdown is having a tremendously negative effect on those businesses, harming their ability to manufacture, import, and export the goods and raw materials our economy needs to thrive. Many businesses have reached out to me and my staff about how they’re being affected, and I hope that the Secretaries of Labor and Commerce keep these business owners’ concerns in mind when they take action on this crisis.” Jake Jabs, President of Englewood, Colorado’s American Furniture Warehouse, provided the following statement about the impact of the slowdown: “With the economy turning around, we’ve seen an increase in furniture orders here in Colorado, but the pieces being made overseas are getting caught in the middle – literally sitting at the dock for weeks, waiting to be unloaded. We’ve actually had to remove popular furniture lines from our showroom because we can’t guarantee when they’ll reach our customers & we pride ourselves on delivering the best and timely products.” Golden Aluminum, based in Fort Lupton, Colorado, provided the following statement about the impact of the slowdown: “Export sales are a very important segment of our sales portfolio at Golden Aluminum. We are concerned that the West Coast ports dispute could result in short term sales losses and may jeopardize our supplier relationship with some of our long term customers, not only in Asia, but worldwide because of the ripple effect on the entire U.S. shipping industry. We urge the government to work with both parties involved to press for a rapid and equitable resolution.” ###
02.18.2015	02.18.15 Gardner Statement on Browns Canyon Designation Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement on President Obama’s planned designation of Browns Canyon as a National Monument: “Browns Canyon is a national treasure with a long history of bipartisan support in Colorado. Senator Udall in particular was a champion of this beautiful site, and his legacy of protecting Colorado’s landscapes is to be commended. This monument will stand in lasting tribute to his public service. My preference is always to work through the legislative process, and in the coming days I will be introducing legislation to ensure that Colorado’s state and local interests have a seat at the table in discussions about Browns Canyon.” ###
02.17.2015	02.17.15 Gardner Demands Action on Ports Stalemate Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) sent a letter today urging the Obama Administration to find a resolution to the economic crises created by union slowdowns at West Coast ports. The labor dispute, affecting operations in Los Angeles, Long Beach, and elsewhere, has caused vital economic hubs to grind to a standstill while ships full of cargo are anchored just off the coast and American-made exports pile up in port warehouses. This slowdown is causing grave economic harm to businesses in Colorado and around the country. Gardner’s letter, addressed to the Secretary of Commerce and Secretary of Labor, reads, in part: The economic consequences of this labor dispute are not confined to the local economies surrounding the ports. This logistical nightmare will create delays, higher costs, and lost business for industries throughout the country. Recently announced weekend shutdowns could cost us $1 billion per day or more in lost economic activity nationally, according to multiple media sources, and businesses fear this could affect long-term demand for American exports. The adverse effects on Colorado manufacturers and industry began in October and are especially pronounced. For example, my state supplies Asia with over $500 million in beef products through West Coast ports, which account for 23% of Colorado’s total exports and 57% of its international exports. But our Colorado exports are being turned away at the ports’ gates. Grain, machine parts, coal, fishing supplies, furniture, fresh produce and pliable metals are all products of Colorado – and all are being damaged by this labor dispute. Our exporters’ relationships with Asian customers are disintegrating as their products are caught in the bottleneck. Storefronts here in the U.S. are losing customers because products ordered are taking months to reach show floors. Segments of our manufacturers are experiencing production line delays or shutdowns because they can’t get the raw materials they need to produce American goods. Our retailers are even resorting to financially unsustainable air freight just to keep products on the shelves and customers happy. A single union should not be able to hold the American economy hostage just to gain leverage during contract negotiations. Given these national disruptions to the U.S. economy and industry, the federal government has a duty to act. Please bring your agencies’ authority and resources to bear on this pressing national crisis before it spirals further out of control. The full letter can be read here. ###
02.13.2015	02.13.15 Gardner Announces Leadership Roles on Energy Committee Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today that he has been placed on three key subcommittees of the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources. Senator Gardner will serve on the Subcommittee on Energy, the Subcommittee on Public Lands, Forests, and Mining, and also on the Subcommittee on Water and Power. “These subcommittees have jurisdiction over many industries which have a major footprint in Colorado,” Gardner said. “Energy production, distribution, and consumption are major drivers of Colorado’s economy. I’ll use my position on these subcommittees to advocate for policies that would benefit Colorado’s energy industry, from expanded natural gas exports to responsible energy development on public lands. At the same time, I’ll continue to be a strong defender of our state’s beautiful environment, and press forward on issues like wildfire reform and wind energy development. “Coloradans have a special connection to our public lands, and Coloradans are also keenly aware of the major role that energy production plays in our economy. Responsible stewardship of our environment, land, and water is a top-of-mind issue for many in our state, and I’m excited to use my position on these subcommittees to forcefully advocate for Colorado, our lands, and our prosperity.” ###
02.12.2015	02.12.15 Gardner Welcomes Netanyahu to Congress Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today that he is co-sponsoring a resolution welcoming the Prime Minister of Israel Benjamin Netanyahu to address a Joint Session of Congress on his visit to the United States: “Prime Minister Netanyahu said his speech to Congress will be about the ‘very survival’ of the State of Israel,” Gardner said. “Therefore, I believe it is critical for every Member of Congress to hear directly from the Prime Minister of our closest friend and ally in the region on how we can work together to confront the common challenges of Islamic extremism and a nuclear Iran. “It’s never been more important for the United States to stand strong beside Israel. I will use my position on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee to consistently advocate for policies which serve to strengthen this critical partnership. Israel’s enemies have consistently threatened to wipe Israel off the map. It’s our job to ensure that never happens.” ###
02.12.2015	02.12.15 Gardner Leads the Charge on Balanced Budget February 12th, 2015 Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) took a hard stance on balancing the federal budget today, signing on to legislation which would block members of Congress from receiving their salaries unless their chamber of Congress has passed a budget that balances within ten years. The Balanced Budget Accountability Act, introduced by Senator Daines (R-SD), would also prohibit tax increases unless three-fifths of both chambers of Congress vote in favor of them. “Coloradans who have to balance their family budget every month are sick and tired of seeing Washington’s reckless spending,” Gardner said. “President Obama sent a budget to Congress this year which never balances. Our federal debt has increased by $7.5 trillion since he took office, and hundreds of billions of dollars more are being added every year. It’s time for this fiscal madness to end. “Those of us who serve in Congress were sent here to do a job. Passing a responsible, balanced budget is part of that job. If members of Congress won’t do their job, they shouldn’t get paid. For too long, the federal government has lived in a fiscal fantasy land, irresponsibly writing checks that it hopes our grandchildren will pay. We must balance the budget. This bill would help push Congress to do just that. I’m proud to support it.” ###
02.11.2015	02.11.15 Gardner Statement on President Obama's Proposed AUMF February 11th, 2015 Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement on President Obama’s proposed three-year authorization for the use of military force (AUMF) submitted to Congress today: “The threat faced from ISIS is real, and requires a carefully coordinated strategy that ensures their complete destruction. I’m glad that the President has made the decision to seek this AUMF from Congress, and as a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, I look forward to carefully considering the President’s request. “Coloradans and Americans deserve to have the Administration lay out a clear overall strategy to defeat ISIS. The President must provide the kind of leadership on this issue that only our Commander in Chief can, and make a clear, compelling case for his plan. “Authorizing the use of military force is one of the most serious issues considered by Congress. I will carefully review the President’s plan, fully consider all the testimony heard in hearings, and weigh all the important factors involved in this AUMF. In the end, it is my hope that Congress can authorize a smart, directed, and comprehensive AUMF which will allow us to defeat ISIS once and for all.” ###
02.11.2015	02.11.15 Gardner Moves to Combat Ambush Union Elections February 11th, 2015 Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today that he is introducing as an original co-sponsor legislation which would nullify the “ambush elections” rule issued by the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB). The legislation would reverse an NLRB rule that shortened the time before a union election must take place from its current median of 38 days down to as few as 10 days. The rule also limits the opportunity for a full review of election fairness by providing employers only eight days to find an attorney before a pre-election hearing, even while national union groups have had months to conduct an organizing campaign. “Deciding whether or not to form a union is a major decision, and employees deserve to have a full hearing of the issues from both sides,” Gardner said. “This NLRB rule makes that impossible, rushing employees and businesses into a decision that could have a sizable economic impact on both parties. “Further, this rule jeopardizes employee privacy by expanding the amount of information which businesses are forced to hand over to union organizers. This includes highly sensitive and personal information: names, cell phone numbers, email addresses, work schedules, shift locations and more. It should be up to employees whether this information is handed out, and the NLRB should certainly not compel businesses to do so. “It’s Congress’ job to write the laws, and the executive branch’s job to enforce them. Too often, executive agencies overreach by writing rules and regulations that overstep the bounds of fair and impartial enforcement. When that happens, it’s Congress’ job to step in and roll back those attempts at onerous regulation. This legislation does just that, and provides a fair framework for employees to hear from both sides when deciding on whether to unionize. I’m happy to be an original co-sponsor, and will work hard to make sure it passes.” ###
02.11.2015	02.11.15 Gardner to President: “Don’t Veto a Bipartisan Jobs Bill” February 11th, 2015 Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement on the House of Representative’s bipartisan passage of the Senate bill to approve the job-creating Keystone XL pipeline: “I’m excited that Representatives from both parties have come together in the House to pass the Keystone XL pipeline bill. This project will create American jobs and reduce our dependence on overseas oil, all while having a minimal impact on the environment. “The President has said that he wants to see both parties work together on legislation creating American jobs. Today, a bill doing just that is on its way to his desk. I hope he signs it.” ###
02.11.2015	02.11.15 Gardner Votes to Aid Victims of Child Pornography Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) voted today in favor of S. 295, the Amy and Vicky Child Pornography Victim Restitution Improvement Act of 2015. This legislation strengthens the existing laws on child pornography, making it easier for victims of child pornography to receive full compensation from the perpetrators of these despicable crimes. Additionally, the Act increases the amount victims can receive by holding each wrongdoer involved responsible for the victim’s entire injury, and setting guidelines for determining the amount of restitution owed by the defendant, including minimum amounts for production, distribution, and possession of child pornography. The legislation passed the Senate unanimously. “This is long-overdue legislation. We must do everything we can to protect the most vulnerable among us, and bring the perpetrators of these heinous crimes to justice. No amount of money will ever truly repay victims, but holding these predators fully liable for their actions is a step in the right direction. I was proud to cast my vote in support of the Amy and Vicky Child Pornography Victim Restitution Improvement Act, and I’m glad that it passed the Senate.” ###
02.10.2015	02.10.15 Gardner: “Never Tax the Internet” Washington, D.C.? – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today that he is an original co-sponsor of legislation to keep the internet tax-free indefinitely.? The legislation is being introduced by Senator John Thune (R-SD), and would make permanent the Internet Tax Freedom Act of 1998, which prohibits taxes on internet access or e-commerce. “Wherever the heavy hand of government taxation inserts itself, innovation, growth, and jobs are quick to disappear,” Gardner said. “Businesses and customers are increasingly engaging online, and American entrepreneurs are making leaps and bounds forward in creating the companies, services, and communications platforms that will dominate the future of our economy. Keeping the internet tax-free permanently is the only way to ensure that the kind of progress we’ve made online will continue. “We should never tax the internet. That’s a position I supported in the House of Representatives, it was one of the pillars of my Four Corners Plan for Colorado, and it’s why I’m proud to be an original co-sponsor of this legislation.” ###
02.06.2015	02.06.15 Gardner Statement on the Passing of Alan Nunnelee Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement on the passing of Congressman Alan Nunnelee: “I am deeply saddened by Congressman Nunnelee’s passing. His death is a tremendous loss for his family and friends, the House of Representatives, and the people of Mississippi. It was my distinct privilege to serve with Congressman Nunnelee in the House, and I’ll miss his positive attitude and deep, abiding faith. My prayers are with Alan’s wife Tori and all his loved ones as they mourn this great man.” ###
02.06.2015	02.06.15 Gardner Presses for Email Privacy Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today that he is co-sponsoring legislation to reform and modernize the 1986 Electronic Communications Privacy Act. Current law allows the government to read emails and other electronic communications of American citizens without a warrant after they’re 180 days old. The Electronic Communications Privacy Act Amendments Act of 2015 (ECPA) would eliminate that 180-day rule, placing all electronic communication, regardless of age, under one clear standard – a search warrant based on probable cause. Additionally, ECPA would mandate a review by the Government Accountability Office of how these warrantless searches were executed prior to the ECPA’s enactment, and the effects of the new warrant requirement contained within ECPA. “Current law is completely out of step with how Coloradans and Americans view internet privacy,” Gardner said. “In an age where emails and data are increasingly kept and stored indefinitely for the convenience of internet users, allowing for warrantless searches after a short, arbitrary time period is a dangerous encroachment into the privacy of American citizens. “These laws need to be updated, and I’m excited to support bipartisan legislation to do just that. We absolutely must find the right balance between citizen’s privacy and the needs of law enforcement, but that balance certainly does not involve blanket, warrantless snooping on the emails of Americans who have done nothing wrong.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, & Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee, and is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on East Asian and Pacific Affairs. B40B Dirksen Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
02.05.2015	02.05.15 Gardner Voices Strong Opposition to FCC's Proposed Regulation of the Internet Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement on new internet regulations proposed by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC): “The FCC’s attempt to regulate the internet under Title II of the Communications Act is a massive federal power grab that will come at the expense of innovation, growth, and internet users. This proposal would give the FCC huge amounts of new power over the internet, stifling the very innovative and disruptive culture that made the internet what it is today. “This is the same federal government who failed to adequately launch a major healthcare website, who failed to keep vital national security information safe from rogue contractors, and who, all the while, was collecting the private online data of American citizens. Now, they’re asking us to trust them to be the sole arbiters of a secure and open internet. Americans should be extremely wary. “The FCC and the administration’s decision to act unilaterally here is unfortunate, and will lead to significant amounts of litigation, creating uncertainty and paralysis in one of our economy’s most crucial sectors. The FCC has decided to take an 81-year-old law designed for the needs of the monopoly phone era and use it to justify a massive power grab. I’m opposed to it, and I’m determined to work with members of both parties in the Senate to come up with a better solution.” ###
02.04.2015	02.04.15 Gardner Introduces El Paso County Commissioner at Committee Hearing Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today introduced El Paso County Commissioner Sallie Clark as a witness at a joint hearing between the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee and the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure focused on the impacts on state and local governments of a proposed rule to expand federal regulation of waters under the Clean Water Act. As prepared, Gardner’s remarks read, in part: “I am honored to introduce Commissioner Sallie Clark of El Paso County, Colorado, who is testifying on behalf of the National Association of Counties. Commissioner Clark serves as the First Vice President of the National Association of Counties, and has been a longtime advocate for Colorado, local government, and unwarranted federal mandates on our States. “If the proposed Waters of the United States rule goes forward as planned, the results for Coloradans will be devastating. It will mean increased regulation and unattainable standards for many ditches, ponds, and flood plans. I have opposed this proposed rule, in its entirety, since it was first listed in the Federal Register. According to the Environmental Protection Agency’s own study, 68 percent of the streams in Colorado are intermittent, which means this proposal will have major impacts on all Coloradans, including the energy and agricultural sectors. “Last Congress, I had the opportunity to ask EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy if she was familiar with Colorado water law as compared with other States’ water laws. The Administrator answered that she was not familiar, which exposed this regulation’s greatest flaw – the regulation is a creature of Washington D.C.’s bureaucratic approach. The EPA needs to go back to the drawing board and adequately consult the States and consider potential actions that could harm a State’s ability to manage their own waters. “I support public safety, environmental protections, and clean water, but will oppose overreaching attempts by our federal government that are unconstitutional and harmful to economic success. I thank Commissioner Clark for being here today and I encourage Members to use Commissioner Clark as a resource today on what this federal overreach could mean for Colorado counties and constituents.” ###
02.03.2015	02.03.15 Gardner Statement on Senate DHS Funding Bill Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement today on the Senate’s vote on a motion to proceed to a funding bill for the Department of Homeland Security: “The President has overreached with his executive order on immigration. Over twenty times, he said that he did not have the authority to do what he did. I will do everything I can to oppose his executive action, and I will do everything I can to work towards real, responsible immigration reform which includes strong border security provisions and a guest worker program. “The Department of Homeland Security must receive the funding it requires to keep our country safe. We cannot endanger our national security over a political dispute. We need solutions on immigration reform, and we must fund the Department of Homeland Security. I look forward to voting on a bill to fund the Department of Homeland security, and I look forward to finding solutions to fixing our broken immigration system.” ###
02.02.2015	02.02.15 Gardner Announces Commerce Leadership Roles Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today announced his appointment to several key subcommittees of the Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee. Senator Gardner will assume seats on the following subcommittees: Subcommittee on Aviation Operations, Safety, and Security Subcommittee on Communications, Technology, Innovation, and the Internet Subcommittee on Consumer Protection, Product Safety, Insurance, and Data Security Subcommittee on Space, Science, and Competitiveness “Each of these subcommittees offers an opportunity to engage with and lead on the issues facing our economy,” Gardner said. “From personal passions of mine like data security and consumer protection to the innovative policy required to set America’s technological and scientific agendas, I look forward to the issues these subcommittees will consider. “Aviation in particular is of critical importance to Colorado, home to Denver International Airport and the more than 49 million passengers who came through the airport last year. Colorado is estimated to be home to over seventeen thousand pilots, and the Colorado Space Coalition estimates that there are over a hundred and sixty thousand space-related jobs in my state as well. “Many of the other industries under these subcommittee’s jurisdiction, including the internet, science, and technology, are already responsible for thousands of good-paying Colorado jobs, and as our economy continues to modernize, these industries will be key drivers of our economic growth. I intend to use my seat on each of these subcommittees to strengthen Colorado’s economy and provide careful oversight.” ###
02.02.2015	02.02.15 Gardner: Our Veterans Deserve Better Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released a video message today in advance of casting his vote in favor of the Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for American Veterans Act. Click HERE to watch the video. Remarks as prepared for delivery: Hello. I’m Cory Gardner, your Senator from the Great State of Colorado. Normally, I like to use these updates as a chance to tell you what’s going on this week in Washington, what legislation I’m working on, and how I’m trying to work towards your priorities. But today, the Senate is taking up a bill named for Clay Hunt, a former Marine Corporal. Corporal Hunt served his country bravely in Iraq and Afghanistan, earning a Purple Heart for injuries sustained on the battlefield. He was exactly the kind of person that Veteran’s Affairs policy should be geared towards helping. When Corporal Hunt returned from his tours of duty, he should have been afforded the highest standard of medical care – that’s our promise. He should have received the most supportive mental health programs, and, above all, he should have been given the utmost respect from a government grateful for his service. Instead, Corporal Hunt encountered bureaucratic hurdles, a system almost impossible for veterans to navigate, and a lack of support for veterans who are struggling with physical and mental wounds long after they’ve left the battlefield. Corporal Hunt committed suicide in March of 2011. His death was a causes sorrow, disappointment, and a significant amount of outrage in the hearts of all Americans who care about our veterans. Nationwide, it’s estimated that 22 veterans commit suicide every single day. In recent years, we’ve lost more veterans to suicide than we’ve lost in combat. Each one of those deaths is a national tragedy, and one that demands action. Colorado has over four hundred thousand veterans. All of them are worthy of our thanks and praise, but more importantly, all of them are deserving of the best medical care we can possibly offer. In places like Fort Carson, we’ve seen far too many soldiers and veterans lost to suicide. And that’s why I’ve made Veteran’s care one of my top priorities as a Senator. It’s why I was so proud to introduce legislation to build the Veteran’s Affairs hospital in Aurora. And it’s why, today, I’m casting a vote in favor of the Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for American Veterans Act. This bill aims to modernize and improve the suicide prevention programs available to veterans, and provide additional resources for veterans with mental health disorders that might lead to an increased risk of suicide. It will review existing programs to make sure that what we’re doing works and eliminate any programs that don’t, and it will increase coordination between the VA and Veteran’s Service Organizations. This bill won’t solve all the problems we have caring for veterans. But every step we can take towards fixing this problem is a small down payment on the debt we owe to our men and women in uniform, and it’s our job to never stop working towards that goal. ###
02.02.2015	02.02.15 Gardner on the President's Budget: "Willful Ignorance" Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement today on the release of the President’s Budget: “The President’s budget is a disappointment, full of new spending, more taxes, more special carve outs, and fewer opportunities to come to the table with the new Congress and work towards a sane, responsible budget for our nation. And it’s willfully ignorant of the dangerous cliff our federal budget is already approaching. “Just last week, the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) released an economic outlook report. Our gross national debt currently stands at over $18 trillion. In ten years, the CBO says that current budgeting would take that to over $27 trillion. The President’s budget tinkers at the edges of our debt, trying to justify its massive spending increases with more taxes, fees, and budgetary tricks. “No reasonable person could look at what’s going on in Washington and think that the problem with our government is that it taxes and spends too little. We need a responsible plan that leads to a balanced budget while keeping our nation’s promises. While I still believe that we can work with the President towards that goal, this budget is an unfortunate missed opportunity. “Beneath the veneered exterior of our economy are some troubling statistics. Worker’s hourly earnings are not experiencing the type of growth that we’re seeing in the stock market or corporate balance sheets. It’s crucial that the Congress and the President come together on a budget that actually works towards addressing that gap. Instead, we got a grab bag of the President’s spending priorities and no real plan for the future.” ###
01.29.2015	01.29.15 Gardner Seeks to Modernize Senate Campaign Reporting Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today that he’s joining Senators Tester (D-MT) and Cochran (R-MS) and co-sponsoring the Campaign Disclosure Parity Act. This act would require candidates for United States Senate to electronically file election-related reports with the Federal Election Commission (FEC). Currently, these reports are filed in paper form with the Secretary of the Senate before being sent over to the FEC. “It’s time to bring Senate campaign reporting into the 21st century,” Gardner said. “Having these records filed online first would bring Senate elections in line with other elections for federal office, and would save taxpayers money by removing a needless layer of bureaucracy from the reporting process. I’m proud to be a leader on this piece of commonsense, bipartisan legislation that increases Congressional accountability. “Making Congress more transparent has been a goal of mine going back to my time as a member of the House of Representatives. Electronic filing of records with the FEC is already required in House elections, which allows voters and constituents better access to information about their elected officials. It’s long past time for the Senate to be held to the same standard.” ###
01.29.2015	01.29.15 Gardner Gets Answers on LNG Exports Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) participated today in a Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee hearing on export permits for liquefied natural gas (LNG). During the hearing, Senator Gardner questioned witnesses, who included representatives from the Department of Energy as well as outside experts, on the current state of the natural gas industry, and the benefits that exporting natural gas can provide for both our foreign policy and domestic energy security. “Today’s hearing was a good opportunity to emphasize again just how important it is to expand our exports of liquefied natural gas,” Gardner said. “I’m pleased that the Energy Committee held a hearing on this crucial topic, and many of the answers we received from witnesses pointed towards expanding LNG exports being smart policy. “Expanding these exports would provide a boost to Colorado’s energy industry and create jobs, and it would help our allies abroad by providing them with a secure, reliable trading partner as an alternative to other exporters of natural gas, such as Russia. America is increasingly taking the lead in world energy, and Colorado is playing a major role in that production. Expanding LNG exports would help keep that momentum going.” Video of Senator Gardner’s questioning is available here. ###
01.29.2015	01.29.15 Gardner Moves to Permanently Reauthorize Land and Water Conservation Fund Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) voted today in the Senate in favor of an amendment to the Senate Keystone XL Pipeline bill offered by Senator Burr (R-NC). The amendment would have permanently reauthorized the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF), the current authorization for which ends on September 30, 2015. In addition, the amendment would have ensured that no less than 1.5% of all future funding appropriated would have gone towards securing public recreational access to existing federal public lands. The amendment failed to obtain the necessary 60 votes to pass, failing 59 votes to 39. “Making this authorization permanent is common sense policy, supported by sportsmen, hunters, and countless Coloradans and Americans who appreciate our nation’s natural beauty,” Gardner said. “The Land and Water Conservation Fund is a critical tool used to protect some of our nation’s most cherished lands, and it’s supported by a responsible fiscal partnership between the federal government and private enterprise. “Public lands are some of our most precious resources. Keeping their conservation properly funded while expanding the public’s access to these beautiful treasures is exactly the sort of goal that I’ve always strived for in policymaking. I’m disappointed that the amendment failed, but I will continue to work towards reauthorization of the LWCF going forward.” ###
01.29.2015	01.29.15 Gardner Votes for Energy Independence Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement on the Senate’s passage of S.1, the legislation he co-sponsored to build the Keystone XL pipeline: “I was proud to vote in favor of this bipartisan legislation today, and I’m excited a majority of my colleagues came together to pass it. There was vigorous debate on this bill; we had over thirty votes on amendments which were offered by members of both parties. That’s more votes on amendments on this one bill than occurred in the Senate all last year. “This is an important bill, and one that has unfortunately become overshadowed by the politics around it. This legislation would be a boon to our economy, create thousands of American jobs and take us another step towards North American energy independence. And, crucially, numerous studies from the U.S. Department of State have shown that it will have a minimal impact on our environment. “It’s unfortunate that the President has already threatened to veto this bipartisan legislation. But it is my sincere hope that when bipartisan majorities in both houses of Congress send the bill to his desk, he will change his mind and sign it.” ###
01.28.2015	01.28.15 Gardner Takes Over Key Subcommittee focused on East Asia and Cybersecurity Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today that he has been named the Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee’s Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy. This subcommittee considers all matters related to U.S. relations with countries and regional organizations in East Asia and the Pacific, including key U.S. allies Australia, Japan, Taiwan, and South Korea; the increasingly influential China; as well as 26 other nations stretching from New Zealand to Burma. The subcommittee also has jurisdiction over all matters pertaining to cybersecurity, a key U.S. national security concern. “It is a great honor and a tremendous responsibility to chair this subcommittee,” Gardner said. “As Chairman, I will prioritize strengthening our alliances in the region, promoting trade agreements that benefit U.S. and Colorado economies, and protecting U.S. national security interests in the face of regional threats. “This is an important moment for U.S. economic interests in the region. The United States and 11 other nations are on the brink of completing negotiations of the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP), a historic pan-regional free trade agreement that will solidify U.S. leadership in the region and significantly boost U.S. exports. The nations included in the TPP are already the recipients of 48% of Colorado’s exports, and this trade agreement could allow Colorado businesses to further expand their ability to export goods, import supplies, and create jobs here in our nation. “By opening these markets, we will create new opportunities for America’s entrepreneurs. But we must also be sure that our trading partners play by the rules. As Chairman, one of my foremost responsibilities will be ensuring that trade agreements like TPP are not disadvantaging American businesses. "From the recent hacking of Sony Pictures to the known threats emanating from the region, we cannot take for granted the cybersecurity of our nation. I look forward to engaging with the U.S. intelligence community, private stakeholders, and our allies to identify and counter the growing cyber threat. “There is enormous opportunity to advance our national interests through increased cooperation between the U.S. and nations of this region, from economic development to strengthening our national security. I’m excited to take the Chairmanship of this Subcommittee, and excited to get to work.” Additionally, Senator Gardner has been assigned to the following subcommittees on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee: SUBCOMMITTEE ON WESTERN HEMISPHERE, TRANSNATIONAL CRIME, CIVILIAN SECURITY, DEMOCRACY, HUMAN RIGHTS, AND GLOBAL WOMEN’S ISSUES Jurisdiction: This subcommittee deals with all matters concerning U.S. relations with the countries of the Western Hemisphere, including Canada, Mexico, Central and South America, Cuba, and the other countries in the Caribbean, as well as the Organization of American States. SUBCOMMITTEE ON EUROPE AND REGIONAL SECURITY COOPERATION Jurisdiction: The subcommittee deals with all matters concerning U.S. relations with the countries in Europe and the European Union, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, and regional intergovernmental organizations like the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (except the states of Central Asia that are within the jurisdiction of the Subcommittee on Near Eastern and South Asian Affairs). This subcommittee’s regional responsibilities include all matters within the geographic region, including matters relating to: (1) terrorism and non-proliferation; (2) crime and illicit narcotics; (3) U.S. foreign assistance programs; and (4) the promotion of U.S. trade and exports. SUBCOMMITTEE ON MULTILATERAL INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT, MULTILATERAL INSTITUTIONS, AND INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC, ENERGY, AND ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY Jurisdiction: The subcommittee’s responsibilities include general oversight responsibility for U.S. multilateral international development policy, multilateral foreign assistance, and all U.S. mandatory and voluntary contributions to international organizations and relationship with such entities, including the U.N. and its affiliated agencies. The subcommittee’s responsibilities also include matters related to international monetary policy, including U.S. participation in international financial institutions and trade organizations, U.S. foreign economic policy, including export enhancement and trade promotion, international investment, international trade, protection of intellectual property, and technology transfer, as well as international energy policy and environmental policy, including matters related to the oceans and the Arctic. ###
01.28.2015	01.28.15 Coffman, Gardner, Bennet Team Up on Bill to Build Aurora VA Hospital Washington, D.C. – Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Michael Bennet (D-CO) teamed up with Congressman Mike Coffman (R-CO) and announced today that they will be introducing bills this week in both the United States Senate and House of Representatives to finish building the Aurora Veteran’s Affairs Hospital. The Aurora VA Hospital Financing and Construction Reform Act of 2015 would serve two primary purposes. First, it would authorize the funding required to see this project through to completion. Second, it would transfer the contract management of the project to the Army Corps of Engineers, which would allow for more careful oversight of the project by federal officials. “The United States has no greater responsibility than taking care of those who have served our country,” Gardner said. “This Veterans Affairs Hospital in Aurora is absolutely essential for Colorado veterans, and I’m proud to work with Congressman Coffman and Senator Bennet on getting this project done. Importantly, this bill also contains strong oversight provisions with strict reporting requirements which will help contain costs and ensure building happens on schedule. Passing this legislation will also help ensure that progress on the facility which has already been made is not lost.” “We’re introducing this bill to put the tools and resources in place when the Army Corps of Engineers, Kiewit-Turner, and the VA finalize an agreement on the cost and completion of the VA medical center,” Bennet said. “We can’t afford any further delays. We won’t relent until this hospital is completed.” “We cannot erase the unforgivable errors that have already been committed by the VA, but we can fire the VA and bring in competent managers to get this critical hospital built,” said Coffman. “We owe it to Colorado’s veterans, taxpayers and the 1,400 construction workers to ensure this project is completed as quickly and cost effectively as possible going forward.” ###
01.28.2015	01.28.15 Gardner: “Stop the Federal Assault on Colorado Agriculture and Energy” Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today supported an amendment offered by Senator Moran (R-KS) which would reverse the US Fish and Wildlife Service’s unilateral decision to list the Lesser Prairie Chicken as a threatened species. “The US Fish and Wildlife Service’s decision to list the Lesser Prairie Chicken is an attack on Colorado’s economy, and completely ignores the hard work that state and local officials have done developing conservation plans designed to protect the species from harm,” Gardner said. “This listing could place millions of acres of land off-limits to energy development, farming, and ranching, risking a major negative economic impact. “Coloradans know better than the federal government how to best protect our environment, and that’s why we’re one of multiple states who have attempted to work with Fish and Wildlife on state conservation plans. Unfortunately, these efforts were ignored, and the federal government went ahead with its unilateral decision. Reversing this listing is the right decision for Colorado’s economy and its environment.” ###
01.28.2015	01.28.15 Gardner Statement on Wind Production Tax Credit Vote Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement on his vote against the nonbinding amendment offered by Senator Heitkamp (D-ND) to express the sense of the Senate that the Wind Production Tax Credit should be extended for five years: “I am a true believer in the ability of wind energy to be a key part of an all-of-the-above energy strategy. I have been a major proponent of the Wind Production Tax Credit in the past, and I continue to support incentives for wind energy. It plays a vital role in powering our homes and helping to grow our economy in Colorado. “This amendment, however, is the wrong way to go about it and highlights the continued need for an overhaul our entire tax code. Unfortunately, the amendment advocates the reauthorization of this tax credit without any means to pay for the extension, which I cannot support. Further, the amendment offers no vision of how to eventually ramp down this tax credit, which was always intended to be temporary. “I am still a major supporter of wind energy, and I look forward to working with Senator Heitkamp on the issue going forward. Regrettably, the lack of responsible planning in this amendment makes it harder for those of us who do support the Wind Production Tax Credit to come to a bipartisan agreement about its extension. I hope that the Senate can work on the badly-needed reform that could properly incentivize clean American energy while modernizing our nation’s tax code.” ###
01.27.2015	01.27.15 Gardner Demands Answers on Privacy Rights Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today wrote a letter to the White House on the subject of recent reports of the Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA) amassing a large database of phone calls made by United States citizens. The letter reads, in part: The American people deserve transparency in government and every Administration must be held accountable for its actions, whether they relate to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), Department of Justice (DOJ), or other federal agencies. As such, I have several questions for you regarding the newly uncovered information from DEA and your Administration’s approach to privacy more generally: What legal justification did DEA rely on to initiate this collection program? Did the legal justification ever change during the course of this DEA program? Was the information stored in DEA’s database obtained with either the consent of the targeted citizen or a warrant? Under what circumstances, if any, does your Administration believe it is appropriate to limit Americans’ constitutional right to privacy? Which other federal agencies, aside from those already publicly known, are actively collecting and storing Americans’ personal information without their knowledge, consent, or a properly issued warrant? Including vehicle license plates or other personal identification information? Years of executive overreach by both Democrat and Republican administrations has led our country to the point where Americans have to worry about their privacy as well as their security. I hope that your Administration is willing to work with me and my colleagues in Congress to secure privacy rights and stop this dangerous pattern. I look forward to your answers to my questions and your prompt response. Note: The full text of the letter can be read here. ###
01.26.2015	01.26.15 Gardner Takes on Costly Regulations Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced that he is co-sponsoring the Regulations from the Executive in Need of Scrutiny Act, also known as the REINS Act. This act would restore significant power to the legislative branch with regard to rulemaking by requiring Congressional approval of all major rules and regulations proposed by the executive branch. Major rules and regulations would be defined as those rules that will have greater than a $100 million impact on the economy, lead to a major increase in consumer prices, or negatively impact U.S. industry. “The Founders intended for Congress to write the laws, and the executive branch to enforce them,” Gardner said. “Increasingly, however, the executive branch is writing major rules and regulations with huge economic consequences and no oversight by the elected representatives of the people. It’s time for that to change, and the REINS Act would make that happen. “This was an issue I led on in the House of Representatives, and it was one of the tenets of my Four Corners Plan during my campaign for Senate. I’m excited to join Senator Paul and lead on this issue in the United States Senate.” ###
01.26.2015	01.26.15 Gardner Commemorates Rocky Mountain National Park’s 100th Anniversary Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) made the following statement today commemorating the one-hundredth anniversary of Rocky Mountain National Park: “Today commemorates the one-hundredth anniversary of Rocky Mountain National Park. Rocky Mountain National Park is not only a state treasure, but a national treasure, and all Coloradans are extremely grateful for the legislation which has played a crucial role in preserving this beautiful territory. “On January 26, 1915, President Woodrow Wilson signed the Rocky Mountain National Park Act into law and gave this land its special designation. Today, the Park encompasses 260,000 acres and includes 60 peaks which tower over 12,000 feet. It is home to a wide array of wildlife, including bighorn sheep, bears, beavers, marmots, moose, and mountain lions. Tourists who visit the Park in the fall are also likely to observe the hundreds of elk which reside in these protected lands. Visitors have access to hundreds of miles of hiking trails and can bicycle, climb, fish, and camp throughout the Park. For many Americans, Rocky Mountain National Park provides access to pristine wilderness and wildlife which they might not otherwise be able to experience. “Rocky Mountain National Park also plays a vital role in Colorado’s economy. According to the National Park Service, nearly three million visitors traveled to the Park in 2013, and these individuals spent approximately $186 million during their stay. Nearby Estes Park, Colorado, has thrived as the citizens of the town work to meet the needs of the Park’s visitors. This economic development would not have been possible without the signing of the Rocky Mountain National Park Act one hundred years ago. “Today, Rocky Mountain National Park and its nearby communities showcase the diverse natural beauty that abounds across our great nation. President Wilson’s legislation has protected this land for one hundred years, and it will continue to preserve these stunning peaks and meadows for many years to come. It brings me joy to think that my children and grandchildren will have access to the same views and experiences that I have had in my numerous visits to the Park. I am already looking forward to returning, and encourage all Coloradans and Americans to make a visit. It will be an unforgettable experience.” ###
01.22.2015	01.22.15 Gardner Takes Lead on Wildfire Disaster Funding Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today that he is joining fellow Senators in co-sponsoring the Wildfire Disaster Funding Act of 2015, continuing a legacy of leadership on this issue going back to his days in the House of Representatives. This bill would change U.S. Forest Service and the Department of Interior budgeting to allow agencies additional flexibility to respond to catastrophic wildfires without having to pull money from other budget priorities. “Major wildfires are natural disasters in every place but the federal budget,” Gardner said. “But because the law doesn’t allow funding for these events to be properly budgeted, the Forest Service routinely has to pull money from other important priorities, including fire prevention and forest management, in order to fight these major wildfires. It’s time for that counterproductive cycle to end, and this bill does it.” The legislation would allow the U.S. Forest Service access to the pre-existing disaster fund used by FEMA to respond to natural disasters, allowing that money to be properly and adequately directed towards the fighting of major fires. It is estimated that proper accounting would free up as much as $412 million in discretionary funds for fire prevention programs. Because this legislation would only make commonsense changes to accounting processes, it does not increase federal spending. The legislation is sponsored in the Senate by Senators Wyden (D-OR) and Crapo (R-ID). ###
01.20.2015	01.20.15 Gardner Responds to President Obama’s State of the Union Address Washington, DC – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released a video today responding to President Barack Obama’s annual State of the Union Address. The text of the response, as prepared for delivery, is copied below. Click HERE to watch the video. *** Hello! I'm Senator Cory Gardner from the great state of Colorado. Tonight, we heard from the president as he presented his State of the Union speech. I'd like to share with you some thoughts on what the president said, but more importantly, what actions I think leaders in Washington can take to really improve life for working Americans. Over the past few years, we have had some improvements in our economy. Some parts, such as corporate earnings and stock prices, have even recovered to their pre-recession levels. But these gains can mask the fact that middle class Coloradans and Americans are still feeling pinched. Measures like labor force participation and workers hourly earnings are either flat or going in the wrong direction, indicating that we still have a long ways to go until the middle class feels like there’s a recovery. I’ve called this our “veneered economy”, and you don’t have to scratch too far below the surface to see many Americans struggling. When you read the news, it can seem like the haves and the have-nots in America are living in completely different economies. The president’s reaction to this reality has been to put forward yet another package of tax increases and new government spending rather than trying to lift up those hard working middle class Americans who are struggling. This is the wrong approach. We should be focused on solutions which empower the middle class and grow the economy, not just another tax increase or another government program that causes more problems than it solves. There are many bipartisan areas of agreement that could help move our country forward, and energy is a great place to start. Recently, the New York Times reported that the federal Energy Information Administration estimated that American households will save roughly 750 dollars this year due to lower gas prices. And that’s not even counting any additional savings on your monthly gas bill. I’ve worked closely with Representative Peter Welch, a Democrat in the House, on energy savings performance contracts – which have the potential to save the taxpayer billions of dollars a year and create private sector jobs. Rather than trying to slow down American energy production, we should be doing even more to encourage it. Increasing our supply of energy here at home keeps prices low, creates American jobs, and provides a boost to every sector of our economy. This is the kind of issue I hope we in Congress can work together on. While the President has already signaled hostility toward some projects, like the Keystone XL pipeline, which would create thousands of jobs, I am encouraged by the bipartisan majorities in Congress that have come together to support them. It's Congress's job to govern responsibly, and that means putting bills on the president's desk which address big issues. And hopefully, when congress does, the president will sign them. Our workers are more productive than ever, and America contains the most innovative entrepreneurs, gifted artists, and brilliant inventors in the world. If we can combine them with a government that knows how to set a clear framework for growth and then get out of the way, there’s no limit to what we can accomplish together. That’s the agenda I hope to set in the new Congress. Accomplishing these goals, governing responsibly, and keeping an eye on the middle class will give Americans one of the few things that our Union is missing: a government it can be proud of again. ###
01.19.2015	01.19.15 Gardner Statement on Martin Luther King, Jr. Day Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement on the commemoration of Martin Luther King, Jr. Day: "Today, Coloradans pause to remember and reflect on the legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.," Gardner said. “As the new Congress begins to take up the hard work of governance, it is my hope that we will keep the example of Dr. King in mind, and work towards a government and a country that serves all its citizens equally.” "There is no doubt we have a long way to go. With Dr. King and other inspiring heroes from the Civil Rights movement as our examples, it is the job of today's leaders to translate their noble vision into reality." ###
01.14.2015	01.14.15 Admiral Michelle Howard to Accompany Gardner to State of the Union Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today that Admiral Michelle Howard, the current Vice Chief of Naval Operations, will be his guest at this year’s State of the Union address. Admiral Howard, an Aurora, Colorado native, has achieved numerous distinctions during her sterling Naval career, including being the first African-American woman to command a Navy warship at sea as well as being the first woman to achieve the rank of four-star Admiral. “I am extremely excited to have Admiral Howard accompany me to the state of the Union”, Gardner said. “To be able to bring a guest who has served her country so impeccably over the course of her distinguished career is a tremendous honor.” “From her time at Gateway High School in Aurora to her command of the USS Rushmore, Admiral Howard has blazed a trail that serves as a true inspiration for all Coloradans and, indeed, all Americans. I can’t think of a better guest for this auspicious occasion, and I’m grateful that the Admiral has agreed to come.” ###
01.13.2015	01.13.15 Gardner Moves To Repeal Medical Device Tax Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today that he has joined a bipartisan group of Senators in introducing the Medical Device Access and Innovation Act, which will repeal the Medical Device Tax that was included in the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, also known as Obamacare. Gardner said: “I’m proud to be a leader in the effort to repeal this onerous tax. A tax on medical devices is a tax on innovation, on small businesses, and on our collective ability to discover the new medical breakthroughs that could improve the lives of patients. This tax has already harmed job creation, and threatens thousands more jobs going forward. In Colorado in particular, over a dozen medical device producers have expressed their concern that this tax will hurt their ability to grow, expand, and innovate. “While our healthcare system certainly requires more than just this reform, repealing the Medical Device Tax is an important step towards creating the kind of modern, intelligent healthcare system our country requires. “Repealing this tax was one of the tenets of my Four Corners plan for Colorado, and is an issue I have worked on going back to my time in the House of Representatives. I’m excited to help lead the charge here in the United States Senate as well.” ### Cory Gardner is a member of the U.S. Senate serving Colorado. He sits on the Energy & Natural Resources Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee, and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Committee B40B Dirksen Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 (202) 224-5941
01.11.2015	01.11.15 Gardner Co-Sponsors National Parks Act Washington, D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) announced today that he joined Senator Jeff Flake (R-AZ) in introducing the National Parks Access Act, a bipartisan piece of legislation allowing the National Parks Service to reimburse states which paid to keep National Parks open during the 2013 government shutdown. Colorado was one of six states which advanced money to the National Park Service to keep a park within its borders open. “I’m pleased to be leading on this important legislation, which helps alleviate one of the remaining consequences of the unnecessary government shutdown. I’m proud that Colorado was able to keep Rocky Mountain National Park open during the shutdown, and I’m glad that Senators from both sides of the aisle are coming together to fairly compensate states for the federal government’s failures during that time. This was an issue that I worked on when I was in the House of Representatives in the last Congress, and I’m excited to help lead the charge on it in the Senate. “Our National Parks are one of our greatest resources, and keeping them open and operating for the public is one of the federal government’s foremost responsibilities. While I’m pleased that this legislation is being introduced to compensate Colorado for doing the federal government’s job during the shutdown, we should also all work going forward to ensure it doesn’t happen again.” ###
01.08.2015	01.08.15 Gardner Statement on Paris Terrorist Attacks WASHINGTON D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement on the recent events in Paris, including the attack on the offices of satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo and Friday’s hostage crises. “The recent tragic events in Paris have saddened us all. My prayers are with all the victims in France, their families, and friends. We mourn the tragic loss of life and applaud operations which have saved the lives of hostages. Freedom of speech, even speech that some may find offensive, is a right that we hold dear. In a just world, it is not a right that anyone should have to die for. “These events, and the perpetrators’ links to radical organizations, make it clearer than ever that the entire world faces a true threat in the form of radicalized, militant Islamic terror. Meeting this threat requires that the United States and our allies develop a clear strategic mission that confronts the enemies of civilization on all fronts; from battlefield and intelligence gathering operations to combating the rising scourge of online radicalization.” ###
01.06.2015	01.06.15 Gardner Votes to Advance Keystone XL WASHINGTON D.C. – Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) voted today to advance a bipartisan bill in the Energy and Natural Resources Committee to authorize the construction of the Keystone XL pipeline. “Authorizing the construction of the Keystone XL pipeline is one of the fastest ways that Congress can promote American energy security, create new private sector jobs, and have a minimal environmental impact. “Unfortunately, and despite broad bipartisan support in favor of authorizing the pipeline, the Keystone XL pipeline has been delayed over and over again. It’s long past time that construction on this important energy project was started, and I’m proud to make authorizing this project one of my first actions as a member of the Energy and Natural Resources Committee,” Gardner said. The Keystone XL pipeline would be paid for by the private sector, create thousands of jobs in the United States, and increase domestic energy security. It has been more than six years since the Keystone XL pipeline application was first submitted to the State Department (September 19, 2008), and the State Department’s final supplemental Environmental Impact Statement, which was last updated in June of 2014, states the pipeline will have a minimal impact on our environment. ###
01.05.2015	01.05.15 Gardner Introduces Bill to Expedite LNG Exports Washington, DC - Today Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) joined Senator John Barrasso (R-WY) and introduced the bipartisan “LNG Permitting Certainty and Transparency Act” to expedite the approval of liquefied natural gas (LNG) export applications. “Colorado is at the center of the American energy revolution. The natural gas industry helps power our state’s economy and provides thousands of jobs from the Western Slope to the Eastern Plains and beyond. I’m honored to join my colleagues in leading this effort to streamline the permitting process for LNG exports and boost the potential for future energy development throughout the country. “LNG exports are more than good economic policy—they are also a matter of national security. Aggressive countries that control major flows of natural gas continue to endanger and threaten our allies abroad. Increasing natural gas exports here in the United States would allow us to provide some relief to allies currently tethered to unfriendly regional powers. I’m proud that this is the first bill I’m cosponsoring this Congress, and I look forward to continuing to work on similar legislation in the United States Senate moving forward.” This legislation builds on previous efforts to expedite LNG export applications, including Senator Gardner’s H.R. 6 that passed the U.S. House of Representatives last Congress with strong bipartisan support, including from Democratic leadership. ###
01.05.2015	01.05.15 Gardner Releases Statement on Swearing In Washington, DC - Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement after being sworn in as a United States Senator: "It is a tremendous honor to be sworn in today as a United States Senator and member of the 114th Congress. I am humbled by the trust that the people of Colorado have placed in me to be their Senator, and I'm eager to get down to business making Washington, DC work better for the people of our great state. "With the new Senate taking office today, we have a real opportunity and a real responsibility to take action on the major issues facing our state and our country. I talked a lot about these issues on the campaign trail, and am looking forward to working to improve our economy, expand and promote American energy, fix our education system, and preserve and protect our environment. "Coloradans have not given me an honorary title, they've given me a job to do. And while the swearing in of a new Congress is certainly a time for a celebration of our great democratic traditions, it's also just the beginning of the hard work we have in front of us. The American people expect results, and it's the new Congress's responsibility to deliver them." ###
