04.04.2019	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-Ga.) voted today to extend the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA). "The Violence Against Women Act is critical to prevent domestic violence and protect victims of heinous crimes," said Carter. "This legislation is far too important to be caught up in political games and I am alarmed that my Democratic colleagues continue to block extensions of this legislation as Congress works to reform VAWA. Survivors of domestic violence, and all women in America, absolutely deserve better than this. Congress must extend the Violence Against Women Act immediately." Carter voted today for a clean, one-year extension of the Violence Against Women Act which failed to pass the U.S. House of Representatives. He is also a cosponsor of H.R. 1741, the Violence Against Women Extension Act, which extends VAWA for one year.
04.03.2019	After the Georgia House of Representatives passed a resolution opposing offshore energy exploration, Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-Ga.) today requested that Georgia be excluded from offshore energy plans until the concerns of the legislature are addressed. In a letter to Acting Secretary of the Department of the Interior David Bernhardt, Carter wrote, "as the representative of the First District of Georgia, I was elected to represent the entire coast of our state and to be their voice in Washington. As you know, the issue of offshore energy exploration off the Atlantic Coast has been raised, first by the Obama Administration and now by the Trump Administration. This is of great interest to the residents in the First District of Georgia as proposed plans have included opening the waters off our coast for possible energy exploration and development. I understand the benefits that have been realized for local economies and tourism industries on the Gulf Coast due to offshore energy. I also understand the importance of offshore energy to an all-of-the-above energy strategy that is critical for our national defense as well as in our efforts to lower energy costs for Americans. While I will continue to be an ardent supporter of American energy independence, I believe that the will of our state and local communities must be respected in a decision of this magnitude. That is why I want to bring to your attention a resolution that overwhelmingly passed in the Georgia House of Representatives this week opposing offshore energy development off Georgia’s coast. The resolution passed in the legislature this week was preceded by the approval of resolutions opposing offshore energy development by several municipalities. Elected representatives of Georgia have voted, and I believe that the federal government should respect the people of Georgia to make this critical decision for themselves. That is why I write today to request that Georgia be excluded from offshore energy plans until the concerns of the legislature are addressed. I hope you will recognize the will of our state and local communities and make the appropriate changes to exclude Georgia moving forward." To view the full text of Carter's request, please click here.
03.27.2019	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter's (R-Ga.) bipartisan legislation to increase transparency in the drug pricing system was approved by the House Energy and Commerce Committee's Health Subcommittee today. Currently, Congress’ independent advisory commissions, the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission (MedPAC) and the Medicaid and CHIP Payment and Access Commission (MACPAC), do not have access to certain drug pricing data. MedPAC and MACPAC need data, such as information about drug rebates, in order to make recommendations to Congress on how to improve the Medicare and Medicaid programs and lower prescription drug prices. This legislation, the Payment Commission Data Act, gives MedPAC and MACPAC access to drug pricing data so the industry experts on the commissions have access to the information needed to do their important work. This will increase transparency and help provide recommendations to Congress that will ultimately create policy reforms to help patients. "It is great news that this legislation was approved by the subcommittee today," said Carter."Plain and simple, the experts tasked with providing recommendations to Congress about this important issue need access to drug pricing data. Not only will access to this data help the commissions make better recommendations, it will also increase transparency in the entire drug pricing system. One of my top priorities is lowering prescription drug prices, and transparency will certainly help us do that. I thank my colleagues from both sides of the aisle for their help and support of this legislation." MedPAC and MACPAC came to Congress with concerns that they do not have access to the drug pricing data they need to provide accurate and complete recommendations. Some examples of data the commissions need access to include prices charged by drug manufacturers and wholesalers and the amounts and sources of rebates, price concessions, or other direct or indirect remuneration under such prescription drug plan. Original cosponsors include Representatives Tom O’Halleran (D-Az.), Tom Rice (R-Sc.), Jimmy Panetta (D-Ca.), Greg Gianforte (R-Mt.) and Peter Welch (D-Vt.).
03.27.2019	Today, the House Energy and Commerce Health Subcommittee marked up and passed a series of bills aimed at lowering prescription drug costs, including Congressman Kurt Schrader (D-OR) and Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-GA)’s bipartisan BLOCKING Act, HR 938, that would increase competition in the generic drug market. “We know that when generic versions of medication are on the market it stimulates competition and keeps the cost of drugs down for everyone,” said Rep. Schrader. “But generic drugs don’t save anyone money if they aren’t on the market. Our bill targets and eliminates unnecessary delays in allowing more drugs to get to the market by ensuring both that manufacturers are still incentivized to produce more drugs and that markets continue to see robust competition. I want to thank my colleague, Buddy Carter, for his work on this, and for all of my colleagues for their support today.” “I am very glad to see this legislation approved by the subcommittee today because it will work to bring more generic competition into the marketplace faster,” said Rep. Carter. “More competition is critical in order to lower the costs of prescription drugs for patients. I want to thank my friend Kurt Schrader for working with me to make prescription drugs more affordable and accessible.” Reps. Schrader and Carter introduced the Bringing Low-cost Options and Competition while Keeping Incentives for New Generics (BLOCKING) Act earlier this year to stop first generic drug “parking.” Current law awards 180 days of exclusivity on the market to a drug manufacturer when they are the first to file a generic drug application with the FDA for a drug for which there is no generic. The purpose of this award is to reward manufacturers for challenging weak patents and bringing new low-cost drugs to the market. The 180 days begins once the manufacturer starts marketing the drug, but even before the manufacturer begins marketing, all other generic competitors are blocked from coming to market. This allows some manufacturers to “park” the exclusivity before receiving final approval, blocking competition for more than the 180 days intended by the law. In these cases, no other generics are able to come to the market until the first manufacturer receives final approval, begins marketing the drug, and the subsequent 180 days have passed. Under the BLOCKING Act, if a second generic drug application is blocked from receiving approval solely due to a first generic drug manufacturer parking their exclusivity at the tentative approval stage, the 180 days immediately begins to run, preventing limitless delays for other generics to come to the market. This legislation mirrors a proposal to “speed development of more affordable generics to spur competition” that was included in the administration’s FY19 budget proposal.
03.25.2019	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-Ga.) released the following statement regarding the special counsel's report: "After two years of a special counsel investigation, Congressional investigations and the use of millions of taxpayer dollars, the debate is over: there was no collusion. It's past time for Democrats to realize this truth and end their continuous unsubstantiated attacks against the President of the United States. Enough is enough and the American people deserve a Congress that is focused on the real issues facing our nation."
03.14.2019	Today Representative Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (R-Ga.) along with Representatives Tom O’Halleran (D-Az.), Tom Rice (R-Sc.) and Jimmy Panetta (D-Ca.) introduced bipartisan legislation to increase transparency in the drug pricing system. Currently, Congress’ independent advisory commissions, the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission (MedPAC) and the Medicaid and CHIP Payment and Access Commission (MACPAC), do not have access to certain drug pricing data. MedPAC and MACPAC need data such as information about drug rebates in order to make recommendations to Congress on how to improve the Medicare and Medicaid programs and lower prescription drug prices. This legislation, the Payment Commission Data Act, gives MedPAC and MACPAC access to drug pricing data so the industry experts on the commissions have access to the information needed to do their important work. This will increase transparency and help provide recommendations to Congress that will ultimately create policy reforms to help patients. “It’s unacceptable that the experts tasked with presenting Congress with recommendations on how to better address the important task of lowering prescription drug prices do not have access to the data they need,” said Carter. “This legislation will give them access to what is needed to be sure they can provide the best possible recommendations. It will also bring more clarity to the drug pricing system and increase transparency. I have always said the key to addressing the rising costs of prescription drugs is increased transparency. Sunlight is the best disinfectant. As the only pharmacist in Congress, lowering prescription drug prices for Americans is one of my top priorities and I’m glad to be joined by a great bipartisan group of members who also care deeply about this issue.” “The rising cost of prescription drugs is forcing hardworking families to choose between life-saving medication and other necessities. Congress must act to bring those prices down and increase transparency surrounding drug pricing,” O’Halleran said. “This commonsense legislation is an important step in bringing prices down by ensuring experts have complete access to drug pricing data as they put together recommendations for Congressional action. I am proud to support this bipartisan legislation, and I will continue working to find solutions to the real challenges Arizonans face.” “Congress created independent commissions to analyze data and provide suggestions to lower prescription drug prices," said Rice. "These commissions should be able to access the information they need to make their recommendations. This bipartisan solution will increase transparency in drug pricing which will ultimately translate to lower drug prices for Americans. I would like to thank my colleagues for their partnership on this legislation and I will continue to pursue policies that achieve this goal.” “One of the principal challenges in developing effective drug pricing legislation is the lack of data on how pharmacy benefit managers, insurance carriers, wholesalers, and drug manufacturers engage in contracts to offer prescription drug plans under Medicare," said Panetta. "This bipartisan bill will increase transparency on how drug prices are established, enable health experts to analyze these programs, and provide recommendations to Congress on how best to lower drug prices.” MedPAC and MACPAC came to Congress with concerns that they do not have access to the drug pricing data they need to provide accurate and complete recommendations. Some examples of data the commissions need access to include prices charged by drug manufacturers and wholesalers and the amounts and sources of rebates, price concessions, or other direct or indirect remuneration under such prescription drug plan. Original cosponsors include Representatives Greg Gianforte (R-Mt.) and Peter Welch (D-Vt.).
03.12.2019	U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA), and U.S. Representative Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-GA-01) are urging the Pentagon to consider Savannah as home to a new Aeromedical Evacuation Squadron (AES) within the Air National Guard. The Air Force is currently considering locations to establish an additional AES in order to meet recommendations by the National Commission on the Structure of the Air Force. In a letter to Secretary of the Air Force Heather Wilson, Perdue, Isakson, and Carter encouraged the Air Force to select the 165th Airlift Wing at Savannah Hilton Head Air National Guard Station for the new AES. “As the Air Force continues with its strategic basing process to establish a new Aeromedical Evacuation Squadron within the Air National Guard, we respectfully request your careful consideration of the 165th Airlift Wing at Savannah Hilton Head Air National Guard Station as a top candidate to fulfill basing criteria,” the letter reads. In the letter, Isakson, Perdue, and Carter highlighted the 165th Airlift Wing’s existing capacity and infrastructure to host the mission, ability to recruit from over 10 accredited nursing schools in the area, and existing partnership with the 156th AES, based out of Charlotte, North Carolina. “The September 18, 2018, approval of the enterprise definition and criteria emphasizes the operational, manpower, and capacity requirements of the Aeromedical Evacuation mission. The 165th Airlift Wing is uniquely qualified to excel in all of these areas, but has particularly proven itself in regards to mission capability with an AES,” the letter continues. The Air Force Aeromedical Evacuation Squadron provides time-sensitive, mission-critical care to patients en route to medical treatment facilities. This new mission would require 106 new personnel, including 41 officers and 65 enlisted. View the letter here.
03.12.2019	U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson, R-Ga., and David Perdue, R-Ga., and U.S. Representative Buddy Carter, R-Ga.-01, have secured full capability funding to keep the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project (SHEP) on track in fiscal year 2020. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers today released its proposed budget for fiscal year 2020, recommending more than $130 million in federal funds for the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project. This is the third year in a row SHEP will receive full federal funding from the Trump administration pending Congressional passage of the annual appropriations bill. “Today’s news is real cause for celebration. I’ve been fighting for the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project for 20 years, and with this announcement, the finish line is finally in sight. I thank President Trump, Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works R.D. James, Acting Office of Management and Budget Director Russ Vought and everyone in the administration who is working with us to ensure that this critical port receives the funding it needs to keep our economy growing,” said Isakson. “Our continuous efforts are paying off, and we all look forward to seeing this project through to completion.” “President Trump has broken through the bureaucracy and recommended full funding for SHEP for the third year in a row,” said Perdue. “After 20 years of attempts to deepen the port five feet to accommodate the larger Post Panamax ships, the Trump administration has the project on track for completion in 2022. The Port of Savannah is the third largest and fastest growing port in the United States. SHEP has the best benefit to cost ratio of all port projects across the country at 7.3 to 1, and ensuring the project’s on-time completion is key to increasing our exports and continuing to grow our economy. There is no doubt SHEP is Georgia’s top infrastructure project and will help our country compete globally.” “This is great news for our area, our state and the entire nation,” said Carter. “I want to thank President Trump, OMB Director Mulvaney and Acting Director Vought and Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works R.D. James for the highest budget request for SHEP to date. This again proves their understanding of the critical importance of this project for America and the need to keep it on time and on track. We have fought tirelessly for this federal support and we will continue this work until it becomes a reality. With a benefit to cost ratio of 7.3 to 1, there is no time to waste.” “It is extremely gratifying to see the unwavering support of the president toward completing this critical national infrastructure project,” said Jimmy Allgood, Georgia Ports Authority board chairman. “Funding at this level, which represents full capability for the coming year, ensures that the project remains on schedule and that the United States will soon benefit from the substantial return on investment that the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project represents.” “We are profoundly grateful for the extensive efforts of Senators Perdue and Isakson, Congressman Carter, the entire Georgia congressional delegation and Governor Brian Kemp to see this project through,” said Griff Lynch, Georgia Ports Authority executive director. “The collective effort of Georgia has made our ports global leaders in trade and job creation, not only for our state but for the nation as a whole.” In advance of the administration’s fiscal year 2020 budget planning, letters were sent by Isakson and Perdue and by Carter and the Georgia U.S. House delegation to Office of Management and Budget Director Mick Mulvaney pointing to the project’s approaching final stages and requesting $130.28 million to keep the project on track in the president’s fiscal year 2020 budget. Isakson, Perdue and Carter met with Assistant Secretary James to discuss the fiscal year 2020 budget request on Feb. 14 in Isakson’s Washington office. Today’s funding level will allow the project to remain on track for completion once Congress passes appropriations legislation for the Army Corps of Engineers. Background: In December 2017, the entire Georgia Congressional delegation called on the administration to include critical funding for SHEP in the president’s fiscal year 2019 budget request. In June 2018, Isakson, Perdue and Carter secured full federal funding for SHEP for the first time at the federal level. Last year, the Savannah Morning News editorial board praised Isakson, Perdue and Carter for their roles in achieving full federal funding for the first time. In November 2018, Isakson, Perdue, and Carter secured additional federal funding to keep SHEP on track in 2019.
03.07.2019	Today, Representatives Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (GA-01) and Annie Kuster (NH-02) introduced the Monoxide Poisoning Prevention Act. This bipartisan legislation creates a new grant program to install carbon monoxide alarms in the homes of elderly and low-income individuals, as well as schools and other public facilities. The Carbon Monoxide Poisoning Prevention Act also provides incentives for states to pass laws to require CO alarms. Carbon monoxide is an odorless, colorless gas that is produced whenever fossil fuels are burned. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, there are over 400 deaths and 20,000 emergency room visits caused by carbon monoxide poisoning every year. “This legislation is very important for the safety of Americans,” said Rep. Carter. “We have had serious carbon monoxide poisoning incidents at home in the First District of Georgia. While the State of Georgia has made important strides on this issue, there is still more work to be done. I look forward to working on this critical issue with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle.” “Carbon monoxide poisoning is absolutely preventable,” said Rep. Kuster. “One carbon monoxide death is too many, and by installing detectors in homes and public buildings, we can protect some of our nation’s most vulnerable citizens from this deadly gas. I look forward to working with my colleagues to pass this commonsense, bipartisan legislation.” The Carbon Monoxide Poisoning Prevention Act has been endorsed by some of the nation’s leading public safety advocacy groups, including Safe Kids Worldwide, the National Association of State Fire Marshals, and Congressional Fire Services Institute. “One reason carbon monoxide poisoning is so tragic is because it’s preventable through education and awareness and with the installation of detectors,” said Safe Kids New Hampshire. “Preventing injury is what Safe Kids is all about and this is why we are proud to have worked with Representatives Kuster and Carter, as well as Senators Klobuchar and Hoeven in support of the Carbon Monoxide Poisoning Prevention Act. This legislation will give first responders, public health officials and families the tools they need to protect our most vulnerable young citizens from this danger." "According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, on average 430 Americans die from carbon monoxide poisoning annually and over 2,000 more are hospitalized. Many of those affected by this silent killer are among our most vulnerable populations," said Bill Webb, the Executive Director of the Congressional Fire Services Institute. "We applaud Congresswoman Kuster and Congressman Carter for introducing this important, life-saving legislation. We urge Congress to pass the legislation without delay." “The National Association of State Fire Marshals enthusiastically supports the Carbon Monoxide Poisoning Prevention Act of 2019,” said NASFM Executive Director Jim Narva. “With states focusing on low-income families, the elderly and children, the enactment of this bill and its grant program will save countless lives.”
03.01.2019	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-Ga.) was appointed today by Republican Leader Kevin McCarthy to serve on the Select Committee on the Climate Crisis. “I am proud to name Buddy Carter to the House Select Committee on the Climate Crisis," said Leader McCarthy. "As the representative for the entire coast of Georgia, Buddy is already at the forefront of this issue. Buddy also serves on the Subcommittee on Environment and Climate Change, and I am confident he will provide a knowledgeable voice to the Committee.” The Select Committee on the Climate Crisis is a bipartisan panel tasked with examining the causes and impacts of climate change. "Climate change is real and the need to protect our environment is real," said Carter. "We must find solutions to address this problem. I wanted to join this special committee because as the representative of the entire coast of Georgia, I know firsthand the need to protect our environment and do all that we can to prepare for severe weather. Unfortunately, many proposals coming out of Congress right now are big government solutions that are job-killing, too expensive, not actually effective and even completely unfeasible. I'm a member of this committee because I want to work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to create solutions to address climate change that are realistic, market-based and will actually have an impact on climate change. We should also be focusing on proposals that will create American jobs instead of killing them. I'm ready to get to work." Carter is also a member of the Environment and Climate Change Subcommittee on the House Energy and Commerce Committee.
02.26.2019	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter's (R-Ga.) measure to expand and protect Fort Frederica National Monument located on St. Simons Island, Ga. is heading to President Donald Trump's desk to be signed into law. "I am thrilled that this legislation is almost across the finish line," said Carter. "I have been working on this project since I was elected to Congress and Congressman Jack Kingston worked on it even before me. This legislation will preserve the history and legacy of this landmark for Georgians and visitors for many generations to come. It's great news it has now been approved by both the House and Senate." Carter's measure was previously passed by the United States House of Representatives in the 114th and 115th Congresses but the United States Senate did not move the legislation in the previous sessions. Earlier this month, the United States Senate passed a public lands legislative package which includes the measure to expand Fort Frederica and it was passed in the United States House of Representatives today. The Fort Frederica National Monument Boundary Expansion Act would increase the maximum number of acres that may be included in the monument from 250 acres to 305 acres. Due to current statute, legislation is required to expand the authorized boundary and remove the 250-acre limit established by Congress. It also allows the National Park Service to acquire, by donation or purchase, the land and interests within the monument only from those willing to sell additional land for inclusion. Companion legislation was introduced in the U.S. Senate by Senator Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.).
02.26.2019	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-Ga.) released the following statement after voting against a resolution to block President Donald Trump's emergency declaration to secure the southwest border: "I truly cannot believe my colleagues on the other side of the aisle continue to put party politics ahead of our national security. They will do anything they can to go against our president even if it means sacrificing the safety of Americans. "President Trump should never have been forced to declare a national emergency in the first place. We should have done our job in Congress to address the situation, but the continuous obstruction from Democrats left him no choice. "It's time to end the nonsense and address the dangerous crisis at our border. This is a national emergency and I will continue to support President Trump's action to protect Americans and our homeland."
02.15.2019	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-Ga.) voted against the federal funding agreement tonight which fails to adequately support critical border security measures at the Southwest border. "This border security 'deal' is no deal at all," said Carter. "This bill simply does not include enough funding to secure our border. Congress is again punting border security down the road while putting American safety at risk. I have been to the border and I have seen the threats we face firsthand. To properly secure the border we must listen to the boots on the ground who see these threats each day, the Department of Homeland Security, and deliver what is needed to keep Americans safe. Providing for the common defense is the number one responsibility of the federal government and it's unacceptable that Congress has failed to deliver tonight." The agreement passed in the House and Senate tonight contains a negotiated border security package and funding for a portion of the federal government. It includes only $1.375 billion for a physical barrier, as well as additional technology to combat human and drug trafficking. This is well below the amount of funding determined to be needed by President Donald Trump and the Department of Homeland Security to properly secure the Southwest border.
02.14.2019	U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson, R-Ga., and David Perdue, R-Ga., and U.S. Representative Buddy Carter, R-Ga.-01, along with Georgia Ports Authority leadership urged Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works R.D. James to keep the Savannah Harbor funding on track at a meeting on Feb. 14, 2019. WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson, R-Ga., and David Perdue, R-Ga., and U.S. Representative Buddy Carter, R-Ga.-01, today urged Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works R.D. James to keep the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project (SHEP) on track for the next fiscal year at a meeting with Georgia Ports Authority leadership in Isakson’s Washington, D.C, office. As planning for the fiscal year 2020 budget continues, Isakson, Perdue and Carter thanked James for the administration’s focus on infrastructure and for ensuring the project received the full $101 million funding needed to keep the project on track in fiscal year 2019, as well as the need for additional funding this year. They also stressed the port’s continued record-breaking success that supports jobs, trade and the economy. “The Port of Savannah is critical to Georgia’s economy, to successful global trade and to the thousands of jobs it supports,” said Isakson. “We appreciate the administration’s continued attention and actions to support this vital infrastructure project, and we will continue to press our case for its full, on-time funding.” “The Port of Savannah is an economic engine for Georgia and the fastest growing port in the United States,” said Perdue. “After 19 years of delays, we finally secured full federal funding last year to keep the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project on track. Once completed, SHEP will contribute $282 million to our economy each year and will help our country compete globally. President Trump has made SHEP a priority, and we will continue working with the administration and Army Corps of Engineers to ensure the project is fully funded on time until completion.” “We had a productive discussion today with the Georgia Ports Authority and Assistant Secretary James about the critical need to keep the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project on schedule and sufficiently funded,” said Carter. “Assistant Secretary James has already seen the importance of SHEP firsthand in Savannah and I appreciate the administration’s support for this important project. With a benefit to cost ratio of 7.3 to 1, we will continue working with the administration until this project is completed and its benefits are fully realized.” In advance of the administration’s fiscal year 2020 budget planning, letters were sent by Isakson and Perdue and by Carter and the Georgia U.S. House delegation to Office of Management and Budget Director Mick Mulvaney pointing to the project’s approaching final stages and requesting $132.28 million for the project in the president’s fiscal year 2020 budget. Background: The Savannah Harbor Expansion Project has been in development for nearly two decades and is finally approaching completion thanks to investments from both the state of Georgia and the federal government. In June 2018, Isakson, Perdue and Carter secured full federal funding for SHEP for the first time at the federal level. In November 2018, Isakson, Perdue and Carter announced they had secured additional federal funding to keep the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project (SHEP) on track in 2019. ###
02.08.2019	After Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-Ga.) and members of both the United States Senate and House of Representatives called on the U.S. Department of Commerce to terminate an unfair trade agreement harming U.S. tomato growers, the department this week announced the intent to withdraw from the agreement. Since 1996, Mexican tomato growers have used a suspension agreement to export dumped tomatoes to the United States, thereby circumventing U.S. laws intended to prevent harm to domestic industries. Georgia tomato growers have been severely impacted by this, driving many out of business. Between 2002 and 2017, U.S. tomato production declined by 34% while Mexican imports increased by 125%. The Department of Commerce announced the intent to withdraw from the suspension agreement yesterday. "This is great news for tomato growers in the First District and across the nation," said Carter."The decision to withdraw from this harmful agreement will ensure that Mexican tomato growers cannot get an upper hand through unfair trade practices while helping domestic growers compete. American growers should always be first." Click here to view Carter's request to terminate the suspension agreement.
02.07.2019	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-Ga.) released the following statement after Congressman Rob Woodall (R-Ga.) announced his retirement from the United States House of Representatives at the conclusion of the 116th Congress: "Rob is a great friend, representative and leader. His deep knowledge and work on budget and tax issues in Congress has been invaluable for the American people. The Seventh District of Georgia has been lucky to have his leadership in Washington. While we still have a lot of work to do this Congress, I know Rob will continue to do great things for Georgia and the country in his next steps."
02.05.2019	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-Ga.) released the following statement in response to President Donald J. Trump's State of the Union Address tonight: "President Trump gave a strong speech tonight. He spoke about how common sense, pro-growth policies are working to create opportunities for each and every American. Together, Congress and President Trump have worked to deliver important results over the last year. Our economy is booming, wages are up and unemployment is down. We also approved critical resources to combat the opioid crisis and important measures to address the rising costs of prescription medications. "I’m proud that the president continues to fight for the American people. The number one responsibility of the federal government is to protect American citizens at home and abroad. Whether it be threats to our national security, unfair trade deals or crime, I stand by the president’s policies to protect our country and our people. "Tonight, the president called for the bipartisanship that Americans deserve from Washington and laid out an achievable vision for the future of our great nation. "I, too, call on Speaker Pelosi and my colleagues on the other side of the aisle to focus on the issues in front of us, not the political partisanship that was so evident during the government shutdown. I truly believe we can find real solutions to secure the border, address the rising costs of health care and prescription drugs, protect American workers, improve American infrastructure, and ensure a safer America by working together with President Trump. "With President Trump’s theme tonight of ‘Choosing Greatness,’ we should all be reminded that America is truly the greatest country on earth. Our best days are still ahead of us."
01.31.2019	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-Ga.) and Congressman Kurt Schrader (D-Or.) today introduced legislation aimed at keeping drug prices down by increasing competition in the generic drug market. Current law awards 180 days of exclusivity on the market to a drug manufacturer when they are the first to file a generic drug application with the FDA for a drug for which there is no generic. The purpose of this award is to reward manufacturers for challenging weak patents and bringing new low-cost drugs to the market. The 180 days begins once the manufacturer starts marketing the drug, but even before the manufacturer begins marketing, all other generic competitors are blocked from coming to market. This allows some manufacturers to “park” the exclusivity before receiving final approval, blocking competition for more than the 180 days intended by the law. In these cases, no other generics are able to come to the market until the first manufacturer receives final approval, begins marketing the drug, and the subsequent 180 days have passed. The Bringing Low-cost Options and Competition while Keeping Incentives for New Generics (BLOCKING) Act would stop first generic drug “parking.” Under the BLOCKING Act, if a second generic drug application is blocked from receiving approval solely due to a first generic drug manufacturer parking their exclusivity at the tentative approval stage, the 180 days immediately begins to run, preventing limitless delays for other generics to come to the market. This legislation mirrors a proposal to “speed development of more affordable generics to spur competition” that was included in the administration’s FY19 budget proposal. "As the only pharmacist in Congress, one of my top priorities is making prescription drugs more affordable and accessible,” said Rep. Carter. “I am happy to introduce this bill today with my friend Representative Schrader because it will work to bring more generic competition into the marketplace faster. More competition will help make these drugs more affordable and accessible for patients. This proposal has support from President Trump and bipartisan members of Congress. I hope it will move through Congress as soon as possible for the benefit of all patients." “Too many patients across this country feel a severe impact from rising drug prices, often on prescriptions they’ve been filling for years,” said Rep. Schrader. “I have long said there is not one silver bullet solution to this crisis, however, we do know that increasing competition on the drug market places a check on manufacturers and keeps costs down. Our bill is one such solution that targets and eliminates unnecessary delays in allowing more drugs on the market, ensuring both that manufacturers are still incentivized to produce more drugs and that markets continue to see robust competition.”
01.18.2019	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-Ga.) announced today he will continue to serve on the House Committee on Energy and Commerce in the 116th Congress. The Committee on Energy and Commerce is the oldest standing legislative committee in the U.S. House of Representatives and is vested with the broadest jurisdiction of any congressional authorizing committee. On the committee, Carter will continue to serve on the Health and the Environment and Climate Change Subcommittees. He will also join the Consumer Protection and Commerce Subcommittee. “As the only pharmacist in Congress, Buddy has been an important member of our team on the Energy and Commerce Committee,” said House Energy and Commerce Republican Leader Greg Walden (R-Or.). “With Buddy’s background in health and business and as the representative of a coastal district, he will continue to be an asset on the Health and the Environment and Climate Change Subcommittees as well as a valuable addition to the Consumer Protection and Commerce Subcommittee. I look forward to continuing to work together in the new Congress.” As the home of two of the fastest growing ports in the country, a recently-permitted LNG export facility, energy development, and Environmental Protection Agency Superfund sites, the Energy and Commerce Committee's work is of great importance to the First District of Georgia and the entire state. "I'm thrilled to continue our important work on the committee in the 116th Congress," said Carter. "We accomplished a lot over the past two years, but there is still a lot of work to do to deliver results for the American people, and especially the First District of Georgia. Using my lifelong health care experience, I am committed to continuing my work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to lower health costs and increase accessibility for patients. As the representative of the entire coast of Georgia, I'm prepared to continue our important work on the Environment and Climate Change Subcommittee to protect what I believe to be the most beautiful district in the nation. Finally, I am excited to join the Consumer Protection and Commerce Subcommittee this year as we craft commonsense legislation to put consumers first. Let's get to work!" According to the Energy and Commerce Committee, the Health Subcommittee's jurisdiction includes public health and quarantine; hospital construction; mental health; biomedical research and development; health information technology, privacy, and cybersecurity; public health insurance (Medicare, Medicaid) and private health insurance; medical malpractice and medical malpractice insurance; the regulation of food, drugs, and cosmetics; drug abuse; the Department of Health and Human Services; the National Institutes of Health; the Centers for Disease Control; and the Indian Health Service. The Environment and Climate Change Subcommittee's jurisdiction includes all matters related to soil, air, and water contamination, including Superfund and the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act; the regulation of solid, hazardous, and nuclear wastes, including mining, nuclear, oil, gas, and coal combustion waste; the Clean Air Act and air emissions; emergency environmental response; industrial plant security, including cybersecurity; and the regulation of drinking water (Safe Drinking Water Act). The Consumer Protection and Commerce Subcommittee's jurisdiction includes interstate and foreign commerce, including all trade matters within the jurisdiction of the full committee; regulation of commercial practices (the Federal Trade Commission), including sports-related matters; consumer affairs and consumer protection, including privacy matters generally; data security; consumer product safety (the Consumer Product Safety Commission); product liability; motor vehicle safety; and, regulation of travel, tourism, and time.
01.16.2019	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-Ga.) expressed his serious concerns after Democrats in the U.S. House of Representatives attached a government funding bill with no additional border security funding to a critical disaster assistance package that was voted on in the House tonight. "This is unbelievable," said Carter. "My colleagues on the other side of the aisle refuse to come to the table and negotiate to end the shutdown. Instead, they attach a government funding bill with absolutely no additional funding for border security to this critical disaster package leaving it very likely dead on arrival in the Senate and the White House. Our farmers and the communities who desperately need this funding should not be held hostage while Democrats refuse to come to the table and legislate proper border security. While the government is partially shutdown, we should vote on a clean disaster package as soon as possible that will allow us to take care of the communities that have been hardest hit. Natural disasters don't see political parties while wreaking havoc. We should move forward with a disaster package that is devoid of any partisan efforts and bring up a clean disaster package. Now is the time to stop playing games." Ahead of tonight's vote, Carter expressed his concerns with the legislation on the House floor and called on his colleagues to bring a clean disaster assistance bill to the floor as soon as possible. Click here to view or download Carter's floor remarks. Full Transcript of Carter's Floor Remarks: It’s no surprise that many of the communities we represent are in need of disaster assistance. This past year, many areas of the country experienced devastating disasters that had significant impacts on communities and our constituents. I have the honor and privilege of representing Coastal Georgia, a vibrant area that has suffered from a number of these incidents in recent years. I was elected and sent here, like everyone else in this body, to look out for my constituents and their needs. That includes advocating for support following these devastating events. In December, the House passed a supplemental appropriations package that encompassed disasters such as hurricanes, typhoons, wildfires, and other disasters. That package would have brought about the relief we need. Now, Democrats are holding disaster assistance hostage with this legislation. We can’t afford to continue this partisanship when it comes to rebuilding our communities. Whether it’s a wildfire or a hurricane, relief is needed urgently. That includes Coastal Georgia. For instance, our blueberry growers have taken some devastating losses over the last few years. Those growers haven’t had time to properly recover and now we’re dealing with partisan games that will jeopardize their ability to receive much needed aid. Agriculture represents the heart and soul of many of our rural communities and with them not only goes those communities. Now is not the time to derail this desperately needed relief. We need a clean disaster package that will allow us to take care of the communities that are hardest hit. Hurricanes don’t see political parties and they certainly don’t discriminate on the damage they cause. That is why we should move a package that is devoid of any partisan efforts and bring up a clean disaster package. I say to my Democratic colleagues, now is the time to stop playing games. Let’s move a bill that helps, rather than hurts, the ability of our communities to receive disaster relief. I yield back.
01.10.2019	U.S. Senator Johnny Isakson, R-Ga., and U.S. Representative Buddy Carter, R-Ga.-01, today announced they have reintroduced legislation in both the U.S. Senate and the U.S. House of Representatives to expand and protect Fort Frederica National Monument located on St. Simons Island, Ga. “As one of Georgia’s oldest landmarks and archaeological sites, it’s important that we protect Fort Frederica,” said Isakson. “The area is already a tourist destination, and with Fort Frederica’s expansion, visitors would be afforded a better firsthand experience and understanding of our history and founding by General James Oglethorpe. I’m glad to be one of many federal, state and community leaders who support these efforts to preserve and protect this historic landmark.” “I am pleased to again introduce this legislation with Senator Isakson to preserve the history and legacy of our area for Georgians and visitors for many generations to come,” Carter said. “This legislation is critical to ensure the Park Service is able to protect this important historical landmark for the future.” The Fort Frederica National Monument Boundary Expansion Act would increase the maximum number of acres that may be included in the monument from 250 acres to 305 acres. Original cosponsors of the legislation also include Reps. Doug Collins, R-Ga.-09, Drew Ferguson, R-Ga.-03, and John Lewis, D-Ga.-05. Due to current statutory limits, legislation is required to expand the authorized boundary and remove the 250-acre ceiling established by Congress in 1958. Isakson and Carter’s bill would also allow the National Park Service to acquire, by donation or purchase, the land and interests within the monument only from those willing to sell or donate additional land for inclusion. The areas being assessed by the National Park Service for inclusion in the Fort Frederica National Monument are visible from the park, including the fort, King’s magazine, tabby ruins of soldiers’ barracks and other trails. The areas were once used by the British Town of Frederica founded in 1736 by General James Edward Oglethorpe. Based on archival data and a reconnaissance study, there is a high potential that the remains of a colonial cannon battery, Point Battery, exists within the southern area. The northern area is believed to have been used as a campground for troops in 1743. Isakson and Carter previously introduced this legislation in the 114th and 115th sessions of Congress.
01.10.2019	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-Ga.) has directed the Chief Administrative Officer of the U.S. House of Representatives to withhold his pay, including the month of January, during the partial government shutdown. "If the hardworking federal employees in the First District of Georgia aren't receiving a paycheck, I won't either," said Carter. "This shutdown is simply unacceptable and it should have never happened in the first place. The number one responsibility of the federal government is to provide for the common defense. By failing to secure the border, Congress is failing at our most important job. I was proud to support legislation to fund the government, the border wall and border security, but it was blocked by Democrats in the Senate. Unfortunately, my colleagues on the other side of the aisle refuse to negotiate in the slightest and continue to maintain their 'not one cent' attitude towards border security. I will continue to call on my colleagues on the other side of the aisle to come forward with a realistic compromise plan to secure our border and end this shutdown. In the meantime, if any federal workers need assistance, please do not hesitate to contact our office. We are here to help in any way we can." Federal employees needing assistance during the partial government shutdown should call Carter's office in Savannah at 912-352-0101. Click here to view a copy of Carter's request to withhold his salary until an appropriations agreement has taken effect.
01.03.2019	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-Ga.) was sworn into the 116th United States Congress today to serve his third term as the United States Representative for Georgia's First Congressional District. "Serving the First District of Georgia has been one of the greatest honors of my life and I am excited to continue this great responsibility in the 116th Congress," Carter said. "While I am proud of the accomplishments and victories delivered over the last two years, there is still a lot of work to do. First, we must start with ending this unacceptable partial government shutdown. Now that Representative Pelosi has been selected to serve as Speaker of the House by her conference, I hope she and her fellow Democrats will finally come to the table and get to work. We must end this shutdown and also provide critical disaster assistance and funding to secure our border. "While leadership in the House has changed, my commitment to serving the First District of Georgia has not changed. I will work every day with members on both sides of the aisle to push forward our common goals while maintaining my strong conservative principles. Important issues like lowering prescription drug prices and ending the opioid crisis are not partisan. We must come together in Congress and as a nation to deliver results." During the ceremony, Carter joined his colleagues to take the oath of office on the House Floor.
12.21.2018	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-Ga.) supported legislation last night which provides important funding for President Trump's border wall. The federal funding legislation passed by the United States House of Representatives provides $5.7 billion for the wall. "Over the past few days I've heard from many residents in the First District loud and clear," said Carter. "I've been hearing a loud 'build the wall' and I couldn't agree more. I have been to the Southwest border and I have seen the threats we face firsthand. There are illegal drugs, human trafficking, gang members and terrorists coming across our border. It is critical to our national security that we secure our border and it is great news that the House approved this funding to secure our border. Additionally, after months of negotiations by Carter, the legislation includes critical disaster relief for an important part of the First District of Georgia's agricultural community. The federal funding legislation authorizes and directs the United States Department of Agriculture to provide disaster assistance to Georgia's blueberry farmers. This will assist in their recovery from the devastating winter in 2017. "I am thrilled this legislation includes disaster assistance these growers need and deserve," said Carter. "Blueberries are a billion dollar industry in Georgia and the commodity is the backbone of some of our communities. These growers and communities need and deserve this support. I have been fighting for this assistance since I first learned of the situation. A Farm Bill, a spending bill, or any other bill was not going to be good enough until it included assistance for blueberries. It is great news that this relief is one step closer to reaching our growers." "I strongly urge Senate Democrats to come to the table and support our national security as well as America's farmers and others who need this disaster funding. Congress cannot and should not leave town without finishing this job. Support this bill." The Continuing Resolution passed the United States House of Representatives with Carter's support. The legislation will now be considered by the United States Senate.
12.20.2018	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-Ga.) voted today in support of bipartisan legislation to reform America's criminal justice system. "In the Georgia General Assembly, I was proud to work with Governor Nathan Deal on this important issue," said Carter. "Georgia has been a leader and an example for the rest of the nation in effective criminal justice reform. I'm glad to see the federal government has followed Georgia's lead today. This legislation will work to reduce recidivism and reform some sentencing laws while increasing community safety. Our criminal justice system should work to rehabilitate citizens so they can again become productive members of society and this legislation will work towards that goal." The First Step Act passed the United States House of Representative today and will now go to President Trump to be signed into law. The First Step Act is supported by many law enforcement, religious and conservative organizations. This includes the Fraternal Order of Police, the International Association of Chiefs of Police, the National District Attorney’s Association, Former Federal Prosecutors, FreedomWorks, Faith & Freedom Coalition, Prison Fellowship, American Conservative Union, American Correctional Association, Americans for Prosperity, Charles Koch Institute, Heritage Action, Right on Crime, Texas Public Policy Foundation, American Enterprise Institute, and more. According to the House Judiciary Committee, the legislation will: Reduce Recidivism and Increase Public Safety: The bill creates a risk and needs assessment system that will ensure each prisoner’s risk of re-offending is assessed. Provides evidence-based recidivism reduction programming for federal prisoners; Provides incentives to federal prisoners for participating in First Step programming, including the earning of time credits towards a pre-release custody at a halfway house or home confinement; and Excludes violent and high risk criminals, including fentanyl traffickers, from using time credits. Reform Select Sentencing Laws: Under the First Step Act, sentencing is made fairer through narrow reforms. Clarifies that enhanced penalties for using a firearm during a crime of violence or drug crime should be reserved for repeat offenders of such crimes; Reduces the three-strike penalty for non-violent drug offenses from life imprisonment to 25 years; Broadens mandatory penalties for serious violent offenders; Expands the existing federal safety valve to include more low-level, non-violent offenders and maintains safeguards to prohibit violent criminals from potentially benefitting from reduced sentences. Reauthorize the Second Chance Act of 2007: The First Step Act reauthorizes and streamlines eight Second Chance Act programs and repeals four that have not been funded by Congress.
12.12.2018	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-Ga.) voted against legislation today that fails to support a critical part of the First District of Georgia's agricultural community. After months of negotiations by Carter, the Agriculture Improvement Act, also known as the Farm Bill, did not include the adequate crop assistance Georgia's blueberry farmers need to recover from the devastating winter in 2017. "I certainly wanted to vote in support of the Farm Bill today," said Carter. "As Georgia's top industry, the hard work of our farmers, ranchers and producers contributes to the safest, most abundant and most affordable food supply in the world. Our agricultural community needs and deserves the long-term certainty of a sound Farm Bill. Unfortunately, the Farm Bill brought to the House floor today was not one I could support. It simply does not support Georgia growers. "Georgia has risen to become one of the top blueberry producing states in the nation. Now, the commodity is a $1 billion industry in our state and is the backbone of some of our rural communities. However, in 2017, blueberries were hit with a devastating freeze combined with warm winter weather which dramatically harmed the crops. This is not only debilitating for our growers, but also the local economies that depend on them. "I have been fighting for assistance for these growers and communities since I learned of the situation. I had planned to vote yes on this Farm Bill today, but without this critical assistance that we have been fighting for and have been promised, I could not in good faith lend my support. "Now, the fight is not over. I will continue working to secure assistance for one of our largest commodities in the First District, while also continuing to support our entire agricultural community." The Farm Bill passed the U.S. House of Representatives today.
11.21.2018	U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson, R-Ga., David Perdue, R-Ga., and U.S. Representative Buddy Carter, R-Ga.-01, have secured additional federal funding to keep the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project (SHEP) on track in 2019. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers today released its fiscal year 2019 work plan, which includes $52.12 million in additional funds for the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project. This additional funding, combined with the President Trump’s original budget request of $49 million, brings the total fiscal year 2019 federal funding for SHEP to roughly $101 million, which will keep the critical economic development project on track. “We have worked tirelessly to ensure that the federal government adequately funds the deepening of the Port of Savannah to maintain the incredible growth it has experienced,” said Isakson. “With this announcement, President Trump is delivering for Georgia in a big way, and I’m grateful to Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works R.D. James and Office of Management and Budget Director Mick Mulvaney for their continued commitment to this vital infrastructure project. Our commitment is unwavering, and we will keep pressing until the job is complete.” “After 19 years of delays at the federal level, we finally have a President who is committed to completing critical infrastructure projects that will help our nation compete globally,” said Perdue. “The Port of Savannah is the fourth largest and fastest growing port in the United States. Out of all port projects across the country, SHEP has the best benefit to cost ratio at 7.3 to 1. Once completed, SHEP will contribute $282 million to our economy each year. There’s no doubt the Port of Savannah is an economic engine for Georgia, and this funding is a huge win for our state and nation.” “Once again, President Trump and Director Mulvaney have demonstrated the national significance of adequately funding SHEP and maintaining the project’s timeline,” said Carter.“With this commitment, we are one step closer to realizing the full economic impact expanding our harbor will have on the nation and the world. We will continue fighting for this federal support to keep the project moving forward and on time until it becomes a reality.” Background: In December 2017, the entire Georgia Congressional delegation called on the administration to include critical funding for SHEP in the president’s fiscal year 2019 budget request. In June 2018, Isakson, Perdue and Carter secured full federal funding for SHEP for the first time at the federal level. Earlier this year, Savannah Morning News editorial board praised Isakson, Perdue and Carter for their roles in achieving full federal funding for the first time.
10.24.2018	President Donald Trump today signed into law a bipartisan, bicameral package designed to combat the opioid epidemic. Included in the package are three bills introduced by Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-Ga.) as part of his ongoing efforts to end the epidemic. "I am excited and proud that this package was signed into law today," said Carter. "While working with members on both sides of the aisle to create these solutions to combat this crisis, I learned from constituents, colleagues, and others that everyone and every community has been impacted by this epidemic in some way. For me, as a pharmacist for more than 30 years, I saw addiction end careers and ruin lives and families. That is what has driven me to work so hard on this legislation to address prescription drug abuse while ensuring those who truly need the medications maintain access to it. It is great news this package is now law, and I am committed to continuing this strong bipartisan work to end this crisis once and for all." President Trump signed the bicameral agreement on H.R. 6, the Substance Use-Disorder Prevention that Promotes Opioid Recovery and Treatment (SUPPORT) for Patients and Communities Act into law today. The agreement works to combat the opioid crisis by addressing prevention, advancing treatment and recovery initiatives, and improving efforts to fight illicit synthetic drugs like fentanyl. The package includes three bills introduced by Carter: The Special Registration for Telemedicine Clarification Act. Currently, federal law prohibits a medical practitioner from dispensing controlled substances through the internet without first evaluating the patient in-person. This legislation, the Special Registration for Telemedicine Clarification Act, instructs the Attorney General to take the necessary steps to allow for the prescription of medication-assisted treatment (MAT) and other controlled substances via telemedicine. It requires a special registration to connect patients with the treatment they need without risking important safeguards to prevent misuse or diversion. The Abuse Deterrent Access Act. Abuse deterrent formulations (ADFs) represent a breakthrough technology that helps prevent the crushing, snorting, and injection of painkillers. Currently, many prescription drug plans present access barriers for chronic pain patients to ADFs including cost-sharing tiers, fail-first requirements, and prior authorization requirements. Instead of receiving ADFs, often patients are limited to using traditional opioids that can be easily diverted, crushed, snorted, and injected. Carter's legislation, the Abuse Deterrent Access Act of 2018, directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services to conduct a study on barriers to accessing abuse deterrent opioid formulations for chronic pain patients enrolled in Medicare. The Empowering Pharmacists in the Fight Against Opioid Abuse Act introduced with Representative Mark DeSaulnier (D-Ca.). This legislation would require federal agencies to develop and distribute materials to better educate pharmacists on when they are allowed by law to decline to fill a prescription for a controlled substance. These circumstances include the suspicion of fraud, forgery, or other forms of alteration.
10.19.2018	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-Ga.) released the following statement after cosponsoring legislation to build President Trump's border wall and combat sanctuary cities, violent illegal aliens and gangs. "I have been to the Southwest border and I have seen the threats we face firsthand. There is much more than just illegal aliens coming across our borders. It is critical to our national security that we secure our border while addressing the threats already in our country like dangerous sanctuary cities and violent gangs. "This legislation works to combat these threats and accomplish our most important duty to provide for the common defense. I urge my colleagues to bring this bill to a vote as soon as possible to support the safety of our communities." The Build the Wall, Enforce the Law Act fully funds the southern border wall. It also includes important provisions to make communities safer by stopping the flow of federal grant money to sanctuary cities, making alien gang membership grounds for deportation, and requiring ICE to address undocumented immigrants who are charged with a violent crime resulting in serious injury or death.
10.10.2018	Late yesterday, all sixteen Members of the Georgia Congressional Delegation sent a letter to President Donald Trump requesting expedited emergency resources to aid counties in Georgia expected to be impacted by Hurricane Michael. Earlier this morning, Hurricane Michael was upgraded to a Category 4 storm and is expected to bring damaging winds, rain, and flooding throughout the Southeast. Yesterday, based on the latest forecast for Hurricane Michael and acting on a recommendation from Georgia Emergency Management and Homeland Security Agency (GEMA/HS) officials, Georgia Governor Nathan Deal issued an emergency declaration for 92 Georgia counties, making all state resources available to local governments and entities within the impacted area of the hurricane. “We write in full support of Governor Nathan Deal’s request for an emergency declaration for the state of Georgia in anticipation of Hurricane Michael,” wrote the Members. “As the current projections indicate, this major hurricane will significantly impact Georgia communities, and we urge you to approve requests to ensure that full federal resources are made available for counties currently under the declaration and those that may be determined to be in need of emergency federal assistance in the coming days.” Below is the full text of the letter: Dear Mr. President: We write in full support of Governor Nathan Deal’s request for an emergency declaration for the state of Georgia in anticipation of Hurricane Michael. As the current projections indicate, this major hurricane will significantly impact Georgia communities, and we urge you to approve requests to ensure that full federal resources are made available for counties currently under the declaration and those that may be determined to be in need of emergency federal assistance in the coming days. Hurricane Michael has been classified as a Category 3 hurricane and will cause incredible devastation to portions of the Gulf Coast of the United States. Given the potential catastrophic impact that this hurricane may have on Georgia, the state and federal government must work together in order to help reduce the potential loss of life and destruction of property. As we recently witnessed with Hurricane Florence in North Carolina and South Carolina, preparation and up-front resources are paramount in mitigating the impacts of the storm and providing quick response in its aftermath. We thank you for your support and ask for your continued support and assistance in providing the resources necessary to ensure the safety of Georgians. Sincerely, Senator Johnny Isakson Senator David Perdue Representative Earl L. ‘Buddy’ Carter Representative Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. Representative A. Drew Ferguson, IV DMD Representative Henry C. “Hank” Johnson, Jr. Representative John Lewis Representative Karen Handel Representative Rob Woodall Representative Austin Scott Representative Doug Collins Representative Jody Hice Representative Barry Loudermilk Representative Rick W. Allen Representative David Scott Representative Tom Graves Click here to view the letter.
10.10.2018	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-Ga.) joined President Donald Trump today at the White House as he signed legislation to prohibit "gag clause" provisions into law. Today, President Trump signed two Senate companion bills to Carter's Know the Cost Act. These bills prohibit "gag clause" provisions in Medicare as well as in group or individual health plans. Rep. Carter joins President Trump at the White House for the signing ceremony of legislation to ban "gag clause" provisions Currently, Pharmacy Benefit Managers (PBMs) are able to include requirements in contracts that prevent pharmacists from providing advice to their patients on the best and cheapest out-of-pocket alternatives to medications covered under insurance. This is commonly known as a "gag clause." As a result, patients may be paying more for their prescriptions than is warranted. As the only pharmacist in Congress, Carter has been a leader in the fight to eliminate "gag clause" provisions. "Today is a great day for patients," said Carter. "I know firsthand how important it is for pharmacists to have the ability to work with patients to figure out what is in their best interest. Banning "gag clauses" will help ensure that is possible by allowing pharmacists to help patients access the lowest cost options. "It was an honor to join the president today. Now, we must continue our work with President Trump to lower prescription drug prices and health care costs for all Americans." S. 2553, the Know the Lowest Price Act and S. 2554, the Patient Right to Know Drug Prices Act were signed into law today. The Know the Lowest Price Act prohibits "gag clause" provisions in Medicare while the Patients to Know Drug Prices Act prohibits "gag clause" provisions in groups and individual health plans.
10.02.2018	Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (GA-01) received the National Federation of Independent Business’ (NFIB) most prestigious legislative award, the Guardian of Small Business Award, for his strong and consistent support of small business in the 115th Congress. Rep. Carter receives the Guardian of Small Business Award from NFIB “I am honored to receive NFIB’s Guardian of Small Business Award,” said Carter. “As someone who built a small business from the ground up and ran one for more than 30 years, I experienced the challenges that American small businesses face each day. I have fought for small business in the halls of Congress by voting to remove the crippling regulations placed on them by the previous administration. I am especially proud of the passage of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. Thanks to tax reform and other pro-growth policies our economy is booming and small business optimism is at its highest in decades. With 9 out of 10 American businesses being small businesses, small business is truly the foundation of our nation and I will continue to support our job creators.” The NFIB bases the award on the voting record of lawmakers in support of small business issues. “The NFIB Guardian of Small Business Award is presented to Members of Congress who truly vote as champions of small business,” said NFIB President and CEO Juanita D. Duggan. “These men and women in the House of Representatives have been staunch supporters on the issues that affect our members, like regulatory reform and healthcare cost relief. They made tax relief for small businesses a reality. They are the Representatives small business owners can count on in Washington, and we’re proud to award these lawmakers the recognition they earned for the 115th Congress.” Carter scored 100 on the NFIB Scorecard for his voting record in the 115th Congress.
09.28.2018	Today the U.S. House of Representatives approved a bipartisan, bicameral opioid package designed to combat the opioid epidemic. Included in the package are three bills introduced by Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-Ga.) as part of his ongoing efforts to end the epidemic. "We are losing 115 Americans every day to the opioid crisis," said Carter. "As a pharmacist, I viewed addressing prescription drug abuse as part of my professional duty and I have continued this work in Congress. I am proud to have worked with my colleagues in the Energy and Commerce Committee to provide these solutions to address prevention, treatment and recovery of opioid addiction and abuse. While this is not the end of this fight, passage of this bipartisan and bicameral package is a strong step forward." The House passed the bicameral agreement on H.R. 6, the Substance Use-Disorder Prevention that Promotes Opioid Recovery and Treatment (SUPPORT) for Patients and Communities Act today with Carter's support. The legislation works to combat the opioid crisis by addressing prevention, advancing treatment and recovery initiatives, and improving efforts to fight illicit synthetic drugs like fentanyl. The package includes three bills introduced by Carter: The Special Registration for Telemedicine Clarification Act. Currently, federal law prohibits a medical practitioner from dispensing controlled substances through the internet without first evaluating the patient in-person. This legislation, the Special Registration for Telemedicine Clarification Act, instructs the Attorney General to take the necessary steps to allow for the prescription of medication-assisted treatment (MAT) and other controlled substances via telemedicine. It requires a special registration to connect patients with the treatment they need without risking important safeguards to prevent misuse or diversion. The Abuse Deterrent Access Act. Abuse deterrent formulations (ADFs) represent a breakthrough technology that helps prevent the crushing, snorting, and injection of painkillers. Currently, many prescription drug plans present access barriers for chronic pain patients to ADFs including cost-sharing tiers, fail-first requirements, and prior authorization requirements. Instead of receiving ADFs, often patients are limited to using traditional opioids that can be easily diverted, crushed, snorted, and injected. Carter's legislation, the Abuse Deterrent Access Act of 2018, directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services to conduct a study on barriers to accessing abuse deterrent opioid formulations for chronic pain patients enrolled in Medicare. The Empowering Pharmacists in the Fight Against Opioid Abuse Act introduced with Representative Mark DeSaulnier (D-Ca.). This legislation would require federal agencies to develop and distribute materials to better educate pharmacists on when they are allowed by law to decline to fill a prescription for a controlled substance. These circumstances include the suspicion of fraud, forgery, or other forms of alteration.
09.28.2018	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-Ga.) voted today to make the individual and small business tax cuts in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which was signed into law last year, permanent. The nonpartisan Tax Foundation estimates this move to make the individual income tax provisions included in the new tax law permanent would create 1.5 million jobs and raise long run GDP by 2.2 percent. "Thanks to tax reform, Georgians are absolutely better off now than they were under our old complicated and burdensome tax code," said Carter. "Our economy is booming, workers are receiving pay raises and bonuses, unemployment is at historic lows and Americans are keeping more of their hard earned money. Tax reform is working to help Americans from all walks of life achieve the American dream and it is necessary to make these provisions permanent so this can continue." The House passed the Protecting Family and Small Business Tax Cuts Act today with Carter's support. The legislation makes permanent the individual and small business tax cuts currently in the new tax law.
09.26.2018	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-Ga.) discussed the need for action on the Terry Creek/Hercules site in Brunswick with Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Acting Administrator Andrew Wheeler today. During the meeting, Carter requested that the administrator work with other federal partners, including the Department of Justice, to put forth a consent decree that is beneficial to all parties. Carter also relayed the information he received in his meeting earlier this week on the issue with local community members in Brunswick. "I had a productive conversation with Administrator Wheeler today regarding the Terry Creek site," said Carter. "I told the administrator that the EPA and their federal partners need to go back to the drawing board to develop a consent decree that is consistent with the needs of our local community. I told the administrator that we need action and that I will continue to follow up until we receive it." Rep. Carter discussing the need for action on the Terry Creek/Hercules site in Brunswick with Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Acting Administrator Andrew Wheeler Carter also hand delivered his request in writing to Acting Administrator Wheeler. To view Carter's letter, please click here. Full text of Carter's letter to Acting Administrator Wheeler: In your role as the Acting Administrator of the EPA, you have a number of responsibilities and programs to oversee, including the Superfund program. I have the honor of serving on the Energy & Commerce Committee and in that role, I have asked questions about the Superfund program's progress, especially as it relates to timeliness and remediation. One such site of interest is the Terry Creek/Hercules site in Brunswick, Georgia. This site, where chemicals were previously manufactured, is an important stretch of land and is extremely valuable to the local community's ability to develop. As such, I ask that you work with other federal partners, including the Department of Justice, to put forth a consent decree that is beneficial to all parties. Last week, the Glynn County Board of Commissioners and the City of Brunswick passed a resolution opposing the consent decree and the proposed remedial action. That consent decree proposed an action to clean up the contaminated materials and store them on site, rather than remove and dispose of them at a different location. It is a difficult task pursuing economic development opportunities, and to have to market a property with contaminated materials only makes it more difficult. While the Department of Justice has a leading role in the recently released consent decree, I urge you to work with them to consider the thoughts and needs of the local communities and to put forth a solution that accounts for those. The Superfund program plays an important role in cleaning up our communities and providing new opportunities where they weren't possible before remediation. Working with the local communities will help to further the role of the program while utilizing the input of those will be most impacted by those decisions. Thank you for your continued service to our country's environmental cleanup needs, especially as they relate to issues we're facing in the First Congressional District of Georgia. Please don't hesitate to reach out to my office if you need any additional information.
09.26.2018	The U.S. House of Representatives today sent a critical funding bill for the First District of Georgia to President Trump's desk to be signed into law with the support of Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-Ga.). The measure includes funding for defense, education and health care priorities, as well as funding to keep the A-10 Thunderbolts at Moody Air Force Base flying, replace air frames on combat rescue helicopters at Moody Air Force Base, support the Civil Air Patrol which plays an important role in our area during natural disasters, and continue construction on the next class of submarines to be stationed at Naval Submarine Base Kings Bay. "I am thrilled this legislation is heading to President Trump's desk," said Carter. "The funding in this measure is critical for our military in the First District and across the nation. It also provides important investments in health care research and combatting the opioid crisis while increasing funding for special education, Pell Grants, Impact Aid, and charter schools. This bill will have a significant and positive impact on our local communities in Southeast Georgia and I am proud to support it." Highlights of the Department of Defense and Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations Act and Continuing Appropriations Act supported by Carter include: Defense: $157 million for sustainment and procurement of A-10 Thunderbolts such as those stationed at Moody Air Force base, including $65 million for wing replacements; $660 million for Combat Rescue Helicopters to replace aging air frames on combat rescue helicopters, such as those stationed at Moody Air Force Base; $10.8 million for the Civil Air Patrol, which plays an important role in supporting the needs of our region, especially during natural disasters or events such as search and rescue; $3.1 billion for shipbuilding & conversion for the Ohio Replacement Submarine which is critical for the future of Kings Bay; $243.2 billion in Operations and Maintenance to support readiness programs and to train our forces to counter threats to our national security; $148 billion to procure additional ships, aircraft, tanks, weapons and other platforms to ensure our troops have the resources they need; $34.4 billion for defense health programs to provide care for our troops, military families, and retirees; and the measure fully funds a 2.6% pay raise our troops – the largest in 9 years. Health: $178 billion for medical research, education, and job training - a $1 billion increase above fiscal year 2018; $39 billion for the National Institutes of Health - a $2 billion increase above fiscal year 2018; Nearly $7 billion to fight the opioid epidemic; and, the measure maintains the Hyde Amendment, which prohibits funding for domestic abortion. Education: The measure increases funding for special education, Pell Grants, Impact Aid, and charter schools.
09.26.2018	The U.S. House of Representatives approved Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter's (R-Ga.) legislation today that works to protect American veterans from military service deposit errors made by federal agencies. The Correcting Miscalculations in Veterans' Pensions Act authorizes federal agencies that make a mistake in calculating military service deposits and pensions to pay the incorrectly accrued interest on behalf of veteran employees. "It is great news that this legislation passed the House today because it is a real issue for our veterans," said Carter. "I have heard firsthand from veterans who, after serving our nation, move on to work for federal agencies and these agencies are miscalculating their pensions, accruing thousands of dollars in interest without the veteran ever even knowing about it. Our current system requires these veterans to repay sometimes tens of thousands of dollars in interest due to no fault of their own. The legislation passed today says federal agencies, not our brave veterans, should pay the interest payments when the federal government is responsible for the miscalculation." Background: American veterans working at a federal agency are required to pay a military service deposit in order to count their time in military service toward their civil service pension. Due to a misclassification in the type of the employee’s status, the federal agency will therefore charge different interest rates on those military service deposits, often leading to miscalculations. Once the federal agency becomes aware of the miscalculation, they will contact the veteran/employee and notify them of the need to pay back the balance with accrued interest. In some scenarios, that interest can be tens of thousands of dollars that the veteran would be required to pay. Currently, there is no recourse for veterans to mediate that payment and there is no authority for the federal agency to wipe away the incorrectly accrued interest. Carter's legislation, the Correcting Miscalculations in Veterans' Pensions Act, authorizes agencies that make a mistake in calculating military service deposits and pensions to pay the incorrectly accrued interest on behalf of the veterans. The legislation passed the U.S. House of Representatives today and will now be considered by the United States Senate.
09.26.2018	Today the House passed the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Reauthorization Act which includes the Federal Acquisition Savings Act introduced by Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-Ga.). The Federal Acquisition Savings Act works to align the federal government's acquisition practices with those of the private sector while delivering taxpayer savings in the process. Currently, 99% of heavy equipment used by the federal government is purchased due to Federal Acquisition Regulations predominately only allowing leasing or purchasing of heavy equipment. The Government Accountability Office (GAO) found that federal agencies many times did not even perform a lease versus purchase analysis when making acquisition decisions leading to purchasing for nearly all decisions. Carter's legislation works to implement common sense reforms to encourage renting when possible to provide the government significant cost savings. "House passage of this legislation is an important win for taxpayers," said Carter. "Private sector businesses, as well as state and local governments, are turning to rentals instead of purchases or leases of heavy equipment across the country. This has led to significant cost savings and it is common sense that the government should do the same. We should be saving taxpayer dollars through rentals when possible." Background: The private sector continues to increase the use of rentals when procuring heavy equipment to decrease costs. It has been estimated that private sector companies rent nearly 60% of heavy equipment. In comparison, the federal government purchases 99% of heavy equipment. Additionally, state and local governments have used rentals to save taxpayer dollars. The Texas Department of Transportation estimates that its rental program has resulted in a positive financial impact of $10.8 million as of fiscal year 2016. Carter's legislation, the Federal Acquisition Savings Act, requires the heads of executive agencies to consider equipment rental in any cost-effective analysis in addition to leasing or purchasing.
09.25.2018	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-Ga.) today applauded House passage of legislation to ban "gag clause" provisions. Today, the U.S. House of Representatives approved two Senate companion bills to Carter's Know the Cost Act. These bills prohibit "gag clause" provisions in Medicare as well as in group or individual health plans. Currently, Pharmacy Benefit Managers (PBMs) are able to include requirements in contracts that prevent pharmacists from providing advice to their patients on the best and cheapest out-of-pocket alternatives to medications covered under insurance. This is commonly known as a "gag clause." As a result, patients may be paying more for their prescriptions than is warranted. As the only pharmacist in Congress, Carter has been a leader in the fight to eliminate "gag clause" provisions. "The end of this unfair, unacceptable practice is near," said Carter. "Patients should be getting the best deal on their prescriptions, whether they use insurance or not. Having experience with gag clause provisions firsthand as a pharmacist for more than 30 years, I am thrilled a ban is now heading to President Trump to be signed into law. "While banning gag clause provisions is critical, our work to lower prescription drug pricing is far from over. We must focus on additional common sense measures that will have real results for American patients." The Know the Lowest Price Act introduced by Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-Mi.) and the Patient Right to Know Drug Prices Act introduced by Senator Susan Collins (R-Me.) passed the House today. The Know the Lowest Price Act prohibits "gag clause" provisions in Medicare while the Patients to Know Drug Prices Act prohibits "gag clause" provisions in groups and individual health plans. The bills now head to President Trump to be signed into law.
09.13.2018	The House Energy and Commerce Committee approved Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter's (R-Ga.) legislation today to prohibit "gag clause" provisions. Currently, Pharmacy Benefit Managers (PBMs) are able to include requirements in contracts that prevent pharmacists from providing advice to their patients on the best and cheapest out-of-pocket alternatives to medications covered under insurance. This is commonly known as a "gag clause." As a result, patients may be paying more for their prescriptions than is warranted. Carter's legislation passed by the committee today prohibits group health plans offered by employers and individual health insurance plans, as well as Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D Plans, from restricting a pharmacy’s ability to inform a patient about the lower cost, out-of-pocket price options for their prescription. Additionally, the measure will require notifications to Medicare beneficiaries of the potential outcomes of paying out-of-pocket rather than with insurance. "This bill passed our committee today with strong bipartisan support and now it is heading to the House floor," said Carter. "As the only pharmacist in Congress, I know firsthand how important it is to prohibit gag clause provisions, and I am very glad my colleagues on both sides of the aisle understand the importance as well. It is unacceptable that pharmacists are not able to tell patients what is in their best interest. Patients need and deserve the most affordable options. I look forward to bringing this bill before the entire House of Representatives as it is an important part of our work to lower prescription drug prices for Americans." The Know the Cost Act passed the House Energy and Commerce Committee today. It will now be considered by the full House of Representatives. Similar legislation is currently moving through the United States Senate.
09.13.2018	The U.S. House of Representatives, with the help of Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-Ga.), approved critical funding for the Ports of Brunswick and Savannah and the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project today. The legislation includes $49 million for construction of the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project (SHEP). Additionally, the measure expands a navigation funding account by more than 50% from last year to $509 million. This funding can be directed to SHEP in the future. “This funding is critical to ensure construction continues on the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project," said Carter. "The expansion of the navigation funding pot by more than 50% from last year to $509 million is incredible news for the project. Now, we will continue working with President Trump, OMB Director Mulvaney, and the Corps of Engineers to secure the additional funding needed from this large pot of funding. With this substantial increase, we are in an even better position than this point last year and we were able to secure the much-needed funding to keep the project on track this year. I will continue fighting for additional federal support and working to ensure President Trump, the administration and the Corps again realize the critical importance of this project.” The legislation also includes funding for operations and maintenance at the Ports of Brunswick and Savannah. "This legislation also provides critical funding for maintenance and operations at our ports," said Carter. "The Ports of Brunswick and Savannah are critical economic drivers for our area, state and nation and they need adequate federal support." Specifically, the Conference Report to Accompany H.R. 5895 - Energy and Water, Legislative Branch, and Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act includes: $49 million for construction on the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project; $10.5 million for Savannah Harbor disposal areas; $34.3 million for operations and maintenance of the Savannah Harbor; $5.2 million for operations and maintenance of the Brunswick Harbor; $509 million for additional navigation funding; and $3 million for Atlantic Intracoastal Waterway Operations and Maintenance.
09.07.2018	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-Ga.) introduced legislation today to prohibit "gag clause" provisions. Currently, Pharmacy Benefit Managers (PBMs) are able to include requirements in contracts that prevent pharmacists from providing advice to their patients on the best and cheapest out-of-pocket alternatives to medications covered under insurance. This is commonly known as a "gag clause." As a result, patients may be paying more for their prescriptions than is warranted. The Know the Cost Act introduced by Carter today prohibits group health plans offered by employers and individual health insurance plans, as well as Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D Plans, from restricting a pharmacy’s ability to inform a patient about the lower cost, out-of-pocket price options for their prescription. Additionally, the measure will require notifications to Medicare beneficiaries of the potential outcomes of paying out-of-pocket rather than with insurance. The measure was approved today by the House Energy and Commerce Committee's Health Subcommittee and similar legislation is moving through the United States Senate at this time. "As a pharmacist for more than 30 years, I can say firsthand that I was prohibited many times from telling my patients that there was a cheaper option available to them because of a gag clause," Carter said. "Pharmacists must be able to tell patients what is in their best interest and this legislation works to make that happen. Patients need and deserve the most affordable options. "The Know the Cost Act builds on legislation I introduced earlier this year. The strong, bipartisan support of this measure shows the importance of moving this bill across the finish line as part of our mission to lower prescription drug prices for Americans. I am very glad it was approved by our Health Subcommittee today and I look forward to it moving through committee and reaching the House floor." The legislation now moves to consideration by the full House Energy and Commerce Committee.
08.30.2018	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-Ga.) celebrated the reversal of harmful newsprint tariffs. This newsprint is used by local newspapers here in the First District of Georgia and across the country. "This decision is great news for hardworking Americans in the U.S. newspaper and commercial printing industries, as well as all of us who treasure the ability to stay informed and read the newspaper each day," said Carter. "President Trump is doing the right thing by working to correct the trade imbalance against America. However, we must ensure any actions are made in the best interest of American workers and jobs and are without unintended consequences. This particular case would have been detrimental to Georgia jobs and the First Amendment. That is why I fought to expose the negative impacts of this trade remedy and I celebrate the reversal." Yesterday, the U.S. International Trade Commission announced a unanimous decision to terminate duties applied to uncoated groundwood paper, or newsprint, imported from Canada. Carter has fought against this imposition of duties. He sent a letter to U.S. Department of Commerce Secretary Ross and U.S. Trade Representative Lighthizer expressing serious concerns with the duty investigations into the import of groundwood paper from Canada, including imported newsprint and other commercial printing papers. He also urged both agencies to realize the negative impacts that any trade remedy could have on the U.S. newspaper and commercial printing industries, as well as the U.S. paper manufacturing industry.
08.25.2018	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-Ga.) released the following statement on the passing of Senator John McCain: "Today America lost a patriot. Whether in combat or in Congress, Senator John McCain lived each day fiercely defending our freedom and the country he loved. History will remember him as a public servant, statesman, and true American hero. Amy and I send our prayers to the McCain family during this difficult time. Senator McCain's honorable service and brave sacrifices for our great nation should never be forgotten."
07.26.2018	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-Ga.) yesterday voted to extend the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) through the end of the Atlantic hurricane season. "As we enter hurricane season, the need to extend the program is urgent for the First District," said Carter. "While I am very glad the program has been extended, we now need to work on real reforms to improve it. We must work to give the program more financial stability, increase competition with the private sector, and give localities more flexibility." The National Flood Insurance Program Extension Act passed the House yesterday with Carter's support. The legislation authorizes the NFIP through November 30, 2018.
07.25.2018	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-Ga.) introduced legislation yesterday to ensure United States Capitol Police (USCP) officers who have transferred their service to the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center (FLETC) are able to access the benefits they have earned. Currently, USCP officers are not eligible for enhanced retirement benefits upon transfer to a FLETC facility without a break in coverage. This is based off a precedent set by a court case which overturned the policy of enhanced coverage for USCP officers serving as instructors or in an administrative role at FLETC. Carter's legislation, the Law Enforcement Retirement Enhancement Act, ensures USCP officers that transfer to FLETC without a break in service are eligible for the same enhanced retirement benefits as other federal law enforcement officers. The legislation requires those who want to participate to contribute the proper share to receive the benefits. "I introduced this legislation because I heard straight from a FLETC employee," said Carter. "This employee served as a Capitol Police officer and paid into his retirement fund, but because of a separate court case, he is no longer eligible for the benefits he was promised and has paid for simply because he transferred his service to FLETC. This is a problem for several reasons. First, our law enforcement officers who have put their lives on the line deserve better. Second, we need to attract the best talent possible to FLETC. The federal government should not be putting up road blocks to new, top-notch instructors. "I urge my colleagues to pass this legislation as soon as possible to ensure FLETC employees are able to access the benefits they have paid for and deserve." Background: In 1990, Congress passed the United States Capitol Police Retirement Act (PL 101-428), granting the officers enhanced law enforcement officer retirement benefits afforded to other federal law enforcement agencies, including US Secret Service and US Park Police. Previously, Capitol Police officers who transferred to a Federal Law Enforcement Training Center (FLETC) without a break in service were granted enhanced law enforcement retirement coverage consistent with other federal law enforcement officers. However, due to a separate case that was challenged and lost in the Court of Appeals, officers who had complied with the previous laws lost enhanced coverage, including those who had already paid into it. Original cosponsors include Representatives Brendan Boyle (D-Pa.), Tom Cole (R-Ok.), Gene Green (D-Tx.), Steve Scalise (R-La.), and Mimi Walters (R-Ca.).
07.20.2018	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-Ga.) today announced that the Savannah/Hilton Head International Airport has received a federal Airport Improvement Program grant in the amount of $4,086,265. These funds will be applied to the airport's $13 million Federal Inspection Station project which is currently underway. When complete, this project will provide state of the art facilities for Customs and Border Protection to clear international arrivals at the airport. "I am thrilled to announce this federal funding will be directed to our airport," said Carter."This funding will be critical for the airport to evolve and improve as we work to meet the demands of the growing tourism and business needs in our area. I want to thank the executive director of the Savannah Airport Commission, Greg Kelly, for his work on this issue and I look forward to our continued work together to ensure our great area continues to thrive." The Federal Inspection Station will also serve as the new international gateway for Gulfstream, general aviation and other aircrafts for Savannah and the surrounding region. It is also being built to process large body passenger aircraft to support international air service objectives.
07.18.2018	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-Ga.) voted today to support the efforts of law enforcement at our nation's borders. The resolution, which passed the U.S. House of Representatives, denounces the abolishment of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) and supports the law enforcement and military personnel that work to provide security at the border. "I am proud to support the brave men and women who risk their lives to protect our nation and enforce our laws," said Carter. "ICE and other law enforcement officers and military personnel at the border work tirelessly to rescue victims of trafficking, arrest gang members, seize narcotics, and prevent terrorists from entering our nation. These Americans are on the front line protecting our homeland and our citizens. It's disgraceful that my Democratic colleagues fail to support these law enforcement officers and continue to use them in their political push for open borders."
07.11.2018	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-Ga.) introduced legislation today to prevent fraudulent use of Social Security numbers by illegal immigrants. During an audit of the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), the Treasury Department's Inspector General found that over 1.4 million illegal immigrants could be working and operating fraudulently under the Social Security numbers of legal citizens. However, the IRS has refused to take action claiming they can't tell the difference between fraud or a mismatch due to an automated system. Carter's legislation, the Tax Identity Protection Act, requires the IRS to address how they can better identify illegal immigrants who are fraudulently using the information of legal citizens to work in the United States. "The fact that the IRS knows illegal immigrants are using American's Social Security numbers but refuses to do anything about it is egregious and intolerable," said Carter. "Once I learned of this situation I contacted the IRS and was told they weren't even in the position to notify victims that their Social Security number was being used fraudulently and blamed it on a computer system. This is completely unbelievable. The American people deserve trust and accountability in the federal government. The IRS must take steps immediately to notify citizens if their personal information has been stolen and end this unacceptable situation." The Tax Identity Protection Act would require the IRS to produce a report to Congress that states how they can better identify illegal immigrants who are operating in the U.S. under the Social Security number of a legal citizen. Original cosponsors include Representatives Joe Barton (Tx.-06), Scott DesJarlais (Tn.-04) , Bill Flores (Tx.-17), Matt Gaetz (Fl.-01), Jody Hice (Ga.-10), Doug LaMalfa (Ca.-01), Paul Mitchell (Mi.-10), Scott Perry (Pa.-04), Todd Rokita (In.-04), and Joe Wilson (SC-02).
06.21.2018	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-Ga.) voted in support of the Agriculture and Nutrition Act, also known as the Farm Bill, today to support farmers and the agriculture industry. The legislation includes several measures critical for agriculture in the First District of Georgia including reauthorizing the crop insurance program, reauthorizing and improving the Agriculture Risk Coverage (ARC) and Price Loss Coverage (PLC) options, and supporting specialty crops including blueberries, peaches, olives, grapes, tree nuts, and more. The Farm Bill provides full funding for the Specialty Crop Research Initiative and increases the specialty crop block grant program to help specialty crops compete in the market. Additionally, the Farm Bill supports forestry in Georgia by encouraging research to help open new markets for wood products. "As Georgia’s top industry, the hard work of our farmers, ranchers, and producers significantly contributes to the safest, most abundant and most affordable food supply in the world," said Carter. "I voted for this legislation today because it provides critical support and long-term certainty that our agricultural community needs and deserves. It is an honor to represent a large part of Georgia's agricultural community, and I am committed to fighting for Georgia's farmers and this industry that is responsible for one in seven jobs in our state." Among other improvements and reforms, the Farm Bill: Reauthorizes and strengthens the Agriculture Risk Coverage (ARC) and Price Loss Coverage (PLC) options through 2023; Improves and streamlines the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP); Ensures assistance to farmers and ranchers affected by unfair foreign trading practices; Protects crop insurance; Streamlines and reduces regulatory burdens; Supports rural broadband; Establishes a new National Animal Disease Preparedness and Response Program, designed to protect the health of the nation’s livestock sector, and; Helps beginning farmers and ranchers establish themselves in agriculture.
06.21.2018	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-Ga.) voted today to secure our nation's border and improve our national security. The Securing America's Future Act, which failed to pass the House today, supports President Trump's border wall, closes dangerous loopholes, requires the mandatory use of E-Verify and halts sanctuary cities. Additionally, the legislation ends chain migration and the visa lottery system while transitioning to a skill based system. "I am deeply disappointed that this legislation failed today," said Carter. "Our immigration system is broken and Congress must act. This bill supports President Trump's commitment to secure our border while making important positive reforms to legal immigration. I strongly urge my colleagues to come together to implement these critical reforms for our national security." Carter also called for Congressional action to keep families apprehended at the border together during detention. "I thank President Trump for his action yesterday to keep families together at the border," said Carter. "This issue is not new, but now is the time to end it once and for all. I do not want to see families split even temporarily. Failure of the Securing America's Future Act today is further proof that immigration is a complicated issue. We must move forward with securing our borders, but I call on my colleagues to address this situation in a separate, clean bill immediately."
06.20.2018	Led by Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-Ga.), every member of the U.S. House of Representatives from the state of Georgia expressed their support for Spaceport Camden. In a letter to Federal Aviation Administration Acting Administrator Dan Elwell, the delegation wrote, "we write in support of Camden County's application for a Launch Site Operator's License under the Office of Commercial Space Transportation. The Spaceport Camden project is extremely important to the economic future of coastal Georgia and marks the beginning of an excellent opportunity to leverage the research and expertise present in the region. "Spaceport Camden would be the only non-federal range on the East Coast and a major component of the National Space Strategy by providing additional launch capacity for the commercial space industry. As the needs of commercial space continue to grow, development of projects such as this can ensure American companies remain world leaders in space technology. Spaceport Camden, through its location and latitude, provides a unique site to meet the needs of East Coast spaceport users." To view the letter sent from Carter and the entire delegation, please click here.
06.19.2018	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-Ga.) has requested a fishery disaster declaration for coastal Georgia due to a shrimping prohibition resulting from cold water temperatures. Carter also expressed support for Chatham County's request for aid. In a letter to U.S. Department of Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross, Carter wrote, "In early January, the State of Georgia closed its waters to harvesting brown, pink, or white shrimp, and those waters remain closed. On January 24, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) closed federal waters to shrimping under the direction of South Atlantic Fishery Bulletin (FB 18-006). Although NOAA has recently reopened federal water to shrimping, the loss of this time period for shrimping has been detrimental to the economic vitality of the industry. "With the closure of both federal and non-federal waters, shrimpers have not been able to earn income since the closures. The seafood industry in Georgia is responsible for economic activity in excess of $1 billion, and the industry supports thousands of jobs. The University of Georgia states that a fleet of more than 500 boats along the Georgia coast annually harvests between 4.5 million and 9.5 million pounds of shrimp. This closure has caused devastating financial impacts to coastal residents both directly and indirectly involved in the coastal shrimping industry. The hardworking residents of coastal Georgia have had their livelihoods jeopardized for four months, leaving them in financially risky situations." To read Carter's full request letter to Secretary Ross, click here.
06.19.2018	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-Ga.) today praised the U.S. Department of Labor's announcement to expand Association Health Plans (AHP). Due to increased costs and regulations under Obamacare, many small businesses can no longer afford to offer health insurance to their employees. Expanding AHPs will allow small employers to join together to access similar plans as large employers. This will enable small businesses to provide improved access, increased choices and lower costs for health care. The Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimates that 400,000 previously uninsured people will gain coverage under AHPs. "Obamacare has been a disaster for our entire health care system, but it has hit small businesses and their employees extremely hard," said Carter. "Many small businesses simply can't afford to offer health insurance to their employees thanks the failed health care law. This move today is a critical step to lower health care costs and will help to provide hardworking Americans with more choice and better control of their health care." According to the Department of Labor, under the new rule, AHPs can serve employers in a city, county, state, or a multi-state metropolitan area, or a particular industry nationwide. Sole proprietors as well as their families will be permitted to join such plans. In addition to providing more choice, the new rule makes insurance more affordable for small businesses. Just like plans for large employers, these plans will be customizable to tailor benefit design to small businesses’ needs. These plans will also be able to reduce administrative costs and strengthen negotiating power with providers from larger risk pools and greater economies of scale.
06.12.2018	The United States House of Representatives unanimously approved three bills today introduced by Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-Ga.) as part of his ongoing efforts to combat the opioid epidemic. Carter is the only pharmacist currently serving in the U.S. Congress. "We are losing 115 Americans a day from an opioid overdose," said Carter. "We cannot sit idly by as this epidemic takes more parents, sons, daughters, friends and neighbors. It is plaguing our nation and no community is safe. These bills work to provide important tools to combat this crisis and I thank my colleagues in the House for approving them today. I urge my colleagues in the Senate to consider these bills as soon as possible." The House passed three bills introduced by Carter including: The Special Registration for Telemedicine Clarification Act. Currently, federal law prohibits a medical practitioner from dispensing controlled substances through the internet without first evaluating the patient in-person. This legislation, the Special Registration for Telemedicine Clarification Act, instructs the Attorney General to take the necessary steps to allow for the prescription of medication-assisted treatment (MAT) and other controlled substances via telemedicine. It requires a special registration to connect patients with the treatment they need without risking important safeguards to prevent misuse or diversion. The Abuse Deterrent Access Act. Abuse deterrent formulations (ADFs) represent a breakthrough technology that helps prevent the crushing, snorting, and injection of painkillers. Currently, many prescription drug plans present access barriers for chronic pain patients to ADFs including cost-sharing tiers, fail-first requirements, and prior authorization requirements. Instead of receiving ADFs, often patients are limited to using traditional opioids that can be easily diverted, crushed, snorted, and injected. Carter's legislation, the Abuse Deterrent Access Act of 2018, directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services to conduct a study on barriers to accessing abuse deterrent opioid formulations for chronic pain patients enrolled in Medicare. The Empowering Pharmacists in the Fight Against Opioid Abuse Act introduced with Representative Mark DeSaulnier (D-Ca.). This legislation would require federal agencies to develop and distribute materials to better educate pharmacists on when they are allowed by law to decline to fill a prescription for a controlled substance. These circumstances include the suspicion of fraud, forgery, or other forms of alteration.
06.11.2018	U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson, R-Ga., and David Perdue, R-Ga., and U.S. Representative Buddy Carter, R-Ga.-01, have secured much-needed funding to keep the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project (SHEP), on track this year. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers today released its fiscal year 2018 work plan, which includes $35 million in additional funds for the critical project. The Trump administration announced last year that the project would receive $50.06 million in the president’s fiscal year 2018 budget request. The original request plus the funding increase in the Army Corps’ updated work plan brings the total fiscal year 2018 federal funding for the Savannah Harbor Expansion project to roughly $85 million – enough to keep the economic development project on track. “I thank President Trump, OMB Director Mulvaney and the Corps of Engineers for demonstrating their commitment to completing this project that is so critical to our economy,” said Isakson. “The Port of Savannah is boasting record numbers each month. Ensuring the on-time completion of this project is a win for trade, a win for the economy and a win for the hundreds of thousands of jobs the Port of Savannah supports.” “Finally, the Port of Savannah will receive long overdue investment from the federal government,” said Perdue. “President Trump pledged to make infrastructure a priority, and again, we are seeing his Administration deliver on promises. The Savannah Harbor Expansion Project has the best return on investment of any Army Corps of Engineers project in the country at 7.3 to 1. As the fourth largest and fastest growing port in the United States, this project not only benefits Georgia, but also the entire Eastern half of the country. There is no doubt SHEP is Georgia’s top infrastructure project and will help our country compete globally.” “I am thrilled that President Trump, OMB Director Mulvaney and the Corps of Engineers have shown that they realize the critical importance of this project by committing strong federal funding,” said Carter. “With a return on investment of 7.3 to 1, every step closer to completion is a step closer to realizing the full economic impact this project will have on the nation and the world. We will continue fighting for this federal support to keep the project moving forward and on time until it becomes a reality.” The fiscal year 2018 government funding measure signed into law on March 23, 2018, included a $337 million increase over the president’s original budget request for construction of U.S. Army Corps of Engineers navigation projects, including the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project. Background: A study by the Selig Center for Economic Growth at the University of Georgia’s Terry College of Business reported this year that Georgia’s ports support 439,220 full- and part-time jobs across the state. The federal government must allot at least $80 - $100 million annually during the duration of the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project to ensure it will be completed on time. Failure to do so will result in delays that could ultimately cost taxpayers hundreds of millions of dollars. In December 2017, the entire Georgia Congressional delegation called on the administration to include critical funding for the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project (SHEP) in the president’s fiscal year 2019 budget request. Following the president’s February 2018 budget request, Isakson, Perdue and Carter urged full funding for the project and invited President Donald Trump and Vice President Mike Pence to visit the Port of Savannah at the earliest opportunity for a tour to better understand its value to American business. In March, the Georgia Ports Authority brought the first of four new neo-Panamax cranes on line and broke ground on its $126.7 million Mason Mega Rail Terminal. The expansion will increase the Port of Savannah’s rail lift capacity to 1 million containers per year and open new markets from Memphis, Tenn., to St. Louis, Mo., to Chicago, Ill., to Cincinnati, Ohio. Dredging began to deepen the seaward half of the Savannah harbor, which extends 18.5 miles from Fort Pulaski into the Atlantic Ocean, in September 2015. A massive dredging effort began on Dec. 1, 2017, to complete the final phase of the outer channel deepening for the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project. Deepening of the outer harbor was completed on Feb. 27, 2018. The next step will be to award a contract for dredging of the inner harbor.
06.08.2018	The U.S. House of Representatives approved critical funding today for the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project (SHEP) and the Ports of Brunswick and Savannah. Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-Ga.) has been a leader in the fight to secure this funding for SHEP and the ports during the fiscal year 2019 funding process. "I am proud to vote for this legislation today as it supports our ports in Savannah and Brunswick and ensures construction continues in the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project," said Carter. "The Ports of Brunswick and Savannah are critical economic drivers for the First District, as well as the entire state and nation. I will continue fighting to ensure the federal government honors its commitment to our ports and SHEP." Specifically, the Energy and Water, Legislative Branch, and Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act directs: $49,000,000 to the construction of the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project; $10,500,000 to Savannah Harbor disposal areas; and a combined $39,570,000 to operations and maintenance at the Ports of Brunswick and Savannah.
06.07.2018	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-Ga.) voted in support of legislation today based on President Donald J. Trump's spending cut package. The legislation, the Spending Cuts to Expired and Unnecessary Programs Act, cuts $14.835 billion of wasteful, unused federal spending. "I have always said that the national debt is the single biggest threat to our national security," said Carter. "To rein in our national debt, we must reduce spending and cut up the credit cards. Eliminating wasteful, unnecessary funding and cutting spending to expired programs should be a no-brainer. I thank President Trump for submitting this spending cuts package to Congress and I am proud to support it today. We must continue down this path of common sense solutions to get our fiscal house in order." Using authority under the Congressional Budget and Impoundment Control Act of 1974, the President requested approximately $15 billion in rescissions of unused funding. The legislation rescinds funding that is no longer needed for its intended purposes, that has been sitting unused in the federal government, or is designated to expired programs. The rescinded funding is not from the current fiscal year.
06.06.2018	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-Ga.) joined President Donald J. Trump today as S. 2372, the VA MISSION Act of 2018, was signed into law. This legislation will strengthen health care services at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) and provide our nation's veterans with more choice and quality care in the VA system or providers in their own communities. Rep. Carter with Senator Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.), Chairman of the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs at the VA Mission Act signing ceremony at the White House "I want to thank President Trump, Senator Johnny Isakson, Congressman Phil Roe, and all of my colleagues who worked diligently to get this legislation across the finish line," said Carter."This legislation works to ensure our veterans get the quality care that is best for them. Our heroes deserve the best treatment possible when returning home and this is an important step to fix the VA and improve care for our veterans." Specifically, the VA MISSION Act: Streamlines the VA’s duplicative community care programs into one cohesive program to provide veterans with access to health care and services in their own communities; Creates a non-partisan process for reviewing VA’s assets to ensure veterans can access the care they have earned; Expands the VA’s Post-9/11 Caregiver Program to all eras; and Temporarily extends the Veterans Choice Program. For additional details from the House Committee on Veterans Affairs, click here.
06.06.2018	The United States House of Representatives approved legislation today to keep the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project (SHEP) on track towards completion. The Water Resources Development Act (WRDA), which passed the House today with Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter's (R-Ga.) support, provides the necessary cost update authorization for SHEP to ensure federal dollars continue to be directed to the project. Carter has led the charge to secure this important cost update. Without the authorized cost increase, the project would be in jeopardy of losing federal funding. "I am thrilled the House approved this critical cost update authorization for SHEP," said Carter."This cost update has been several years in the making and I am glad it is another step closer to reality. We must do everything we can to keep this project on time and on track towards completion. Without this cost update, that could be in danger." WRDA updates the authorized cost of the project from $706,000,000 to $973,443,000.
05.09.2018	The House Energy and Commerce Committee approved three bills introduced by Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-Ga.) today as part of his ongoing efforts to combat the opioid epidemic. "These bills will provide important tools to combat the opioid epidemic," said Carter. "I am glad they are headed to the House floor for consideration as we continue our bipartisan fight to end this crisis facing our nation." The House Energy and Commerce Committee approved three bills introduced by Carter including: The Special Registration for Telemedicine Clarification Act. Currently, federal law prohibits a medical practitioner from dispensing controlled substances through the internet without first evaluating the patient in-person. This legislation, the Special Registration for Telemedicine Clarification Act, instructs the Attorney General to take the necessary steps to allow for the prescription of medication-assisted treatment (MAT) and other controlled substances via telemedicine. It requires a special registration to connect patients with the treatment they need without risking important safeguards to prevent misuse or diversion. The Abuse Deterrent Access Act. Abuse deterrent formulations (ADFs) represent a breakthrough technology that helps prevent the crushing, snorting, and injection of painkillers. Currently, many prescription drug plans present access barriers for chronic pain patients to ADFs including cost-sharing tiers, fail-first requirements, and prior authorization requirements. Instead of receiving ADFs, often patients are limited to using traditional opioids that can be easily diverted, crushed, snorted, and injected. Carter's legislation, the Abuse Deterrent Access Act of 2018, directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services to conduct a study on barriers to accessing abuse deterrent opioid formulations for chronic pain patients enrolled in Medicare. The Empowering Pharmacists in the Fight Against Opioid Abuse Act introduced with Representative Mark DeSaulnier (D-Ca.). This legislation would require federal agencies to develop and distribute materials to better educate pharmacists on when they are allowed by law to decline to fill a prescription for a controlled substance. These circumstances include the suspicion of fraud, forgery, or other forms of alteration.
05.08.2018	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-Ga.) released the following statement after President Donald Trump announced his decision to withdraw America from the nuclear deal with Iran and reimpose sanctions lifted under the deal: "I applaud President Trump's decision to remove America from this bad deal. I have said from the beginning that America should never be part of a deal built on trusting a regime that has cheated on international agreements time and again. It is no surprise that this has failed to increase our national security. It remains a dangerous deal that threatens to unleash a nuclear arms race in the most unstable region in the world, imperils our closest ally Israel, and signals to other regimes that America will not maintain its resolve to combat extremism. "President Trump's decision today makes clear that we will not stand with a regime that spreads terror around the world and we will not accept a nuclear Iran."
04.24.2018	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-Ga.) introduced legislation today to increase transparency and improve the 340B drug discount program for patients. The 340B drug discount program was created by Congress to provide front-end discounts on covered outpatient drugs purchased by specified providers, including some hospitals, that serve vulnerable patient populations. For certain hospitals, 340B eligibility is determined partially by their Medicaid disproportionate share hospital (DSH) status, a formula based on a hospital’s share of low-income and uninsured patients. Currently, DSH hospitals must report on their inpatient low-income utilization rate in order to qualify for state and federal DSH funds. However, the DSH formula bases eligibility on inpatient care that is provided to individuals with some form of insurance and does not capture all uncompensated care, especially those furnished in an outpatient setting. Carter's legislation, the 340B Optimization Act, adds an additional layer of transparency in the program by requiring hospitals to report their low-income utilization rate for outpatient services in addition to their low-income utilization rate for inpatient services in both the main hospital and child site setting. "I introduced this legislation today because I believe the 340B program is very important, but it needs to be improved," said Carter. "340B is an outpatient program and currently hospitals do not have to report low-income utilization in outpatient settings. This legislation adds an additional layer of transparency to allow us to better understand the patient makeup of DSH hospitals to improve the program and ensure it is truly being used in the most effective way for our nation's most vulnerable patients." “Years of independent studies and investigations have uncovered that the 340B program is out of control in many hospitals and is not functioning to help patients in need," said Ted Okon, executive director, Community Oncology Alliance. "As Congress examines the 340B program and develops legislative solutions to fix 340B, it is critical that policymakers have the facts about the program. The 340B Optimization Act is smart legislation that will do just that – expose the facts about 340B hospitals’ patient populations and charity care. The Community Oncology Alliance (COA) applauds Congressman Buddy Carter for introducing this bill and being an advocate for patients, especially those battling cancer. COA welcomes the opportunity to work with Representative Carter and other members of Congress on strengthening the 340B program for generations of patients – especially those in need – to come.” “The AIR340B Coalition applauds Representative Buddy Carter (R-GA-1) on his efforts to improve understanding of how hospitals are using the 340B program with the introduction of the 340B Optimization Act," said AIR 340B. "Representative Carter joins a growing bipartisan group of lawmakers introducing legislation and holding hearings to help fix the 340B program. This bill is another step in the right direction to modernizing the 340B program so that it helps vulnerable patients receive the care they need. We encourage all lawmakers to review this bill and will continue to work side-by-side with Congress and the Administration to bring this program back on track - helping the communities it was meant to serve.” “BIO strongly supports the 340B Optimization Act," said BIO President & CEO Jim Greenwood. "We believe that it is past time to reevaluate whether Medicaid DSH is the best metric to determine 340B eligibility, and that we are sorely lacking in data—particularly outpatient data on low-income and uninsured patients—to determine the best way to maintain a viable 340B program that delivers care to the underserved. We are proud to stand with Rep. Carter in support of this bill.” "As oncologists caring for a significant portion of our nation’s cancer patients, The US Oncology Network appreciates Congressman Carter’s efforts to protect the integrity of the federal 340B drug discount program through the 340B Optimization Act which will increase transparency and accountability," said The U.S. Oncology Network. Background: The Health Rescources and Services Administration (HRSA) uses a hospital’s DSH adjustment percentage as one measure of eligibility to participate in the 340B drug discount program. Under current law, hospitals must report to the state on their Low-Income Utilization Rate (LIUR) in the inpatient setting to determine eligibility for a DSH payment. However, outpatient sites that are affiliated with a hospital do not affect the hospital’s DSH adjustment percentage as it is based solely on a hospital’s inpatient mix. LIUR is an inpatient metric that is used for an outpatient program which does not properly reflect the number of uninsured low-income patients a hospital may see. The Medicare Payment Advisory Commission and the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO)have both questioned if Medicaid DSH is the best metric to examine the outpatient population of the hospital. Additionally, the Energy and Commerce Committee found in the recent report on the 340B drug pricing program that “The current metric used to determine hospital eligibility for the 340B program does not necessarily reflect the amount of charity care offered by the hospital or the outpatient population for the hospital. Hospitals have a financial incentive to open child sites in areas that do not reflect the DSH percentage of the parent entity, thus enabling the hospital to gain access to a higher number of commercially insured patients.”
04.23.2018	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-Ga.) introduced legislation today to remove barriers to abuse deterrent opioids. Abuse deterrent formulations (ADFs) represent a breakthrough technology that helps prevent the crushing, snorting, and injection of painkillers. Currently, many prescription drug plans present access barriers for chronic pain patients to ADFs including cost-sharing tiers, fail-first requirements, and prior authorization requirements. Instead of receiving ADFs, often patients are limited to using traditional opioids that can be easily diverted, crushed, snorted, and injected. Carter's legislation, the Abuse Deterrent Access Act of 2018, directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services to conduct a study on barriers to accessing abuse deterrent opioid formulations for chronic pain patients enrolled in Medicare. "Each year, approximately 4.5 million Americans use prescription pain medications for non-medical purposes contributing to 89 prescription drug overdose deaths per day," said Carter."Of those that misused prescription pain relievers, 53% reported obtaining them from friends or relatives. As the only pharmacist in Congress, I believe we must find solutions to combat this crisis that prevent opioid diversion while maintaining legitimate patient access for those who truly need it. ADFs ensure those who legitimately need pain medication are able to access it while helping to prevent misuse." Original cosponsors include Representatives Dave Loebsack (D-Ia.) and Tom Reed (R-Ny.).
04.17.2018	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-Ga.) released the following message on Tax Day 2018 - the last time Americans will file taxes under the old, burdensome tax code before the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act is fully implemented. Click here to view Carter's Tax Day message. Full Transcript: Today is Tax Day. Why am I celebrating Tax Day? Because it’s the last time Americans will file their taxes using the outdated, burdensome, and complicated tax code before the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act is fully implemented. Here’s five ways the new tax code will be better for you and Americans across the country. One. Lower tax rates for all Americans. That means you will get to keep more of your hard-earned money. Two. The Child Tax Credit will double from $1,000 to $2,000. This will help provide meaningful relief to the cost of raising a family. Three. The standard deduction will nearly double to $12,000 for individuals and $24,000 for married couples. Four. Simpler tax forms. That means less hassle and time spent filing your taxes. Five. No more individual mandate from Obamacare. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act repealed this unfair tax. The new tax code means more money for you and less time filing your taxes next year. Join me in celebrating Tax Day. For more information on the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, visit fairandsimple.gop.
04.12.2018	Representatives Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-Ga.) and Cheri Bustos (D-Il.) introduced legislation today to increase access to treatment for those suffering from opioid and other addictions. Currently, federal law prohibits a medical practitioner from dispensing controlled substances through the internet without first evaluating the patient in-person. This legislation, the Special Registration for Telemedicine Clarification Act, instructs the Attorney General to take the necessary steps to allow for the prescription of medication-assisted treatment (MAT) and other controlled substances via telemedicine. It requires a special registration to connect patients with the treatment they need without risking important safeguards to prevent misuse or diversion. "Millions of Americans across the country are currently addicted to opioids and we're losing 115 people every day," said Congressman Carter. "No community is safe, especially rural communities where many do not have access to the treatment they need in close proximity. I am proud to introduce this legislation today to ensure those who do not have access to an in-person specialist are able to get the help they need through telemedicine without risking important safeguards to prevent misuse. As the only pharmacist in Congress, I believe we must use every tool available to combat the opioid crisis. Telemedicine technology has evolved tremendously and it should absolutely be used in this fight." “The opioid epidemic has claimed too many lives across our nation, and I am told time and time again that access to treatment remains one of the largest barriers to recovery in small towns and rural communities across America,” Congresswoman Bustos said. “This is why I'm proud to help introduce the Special Registration for Telemedicine Clarification Act, which will help bring more treatment options to underserved communities through telemedicine. Saving our sons and daughters from the opioid epidemic is a bipartisan priority and we're all committed to addressing this crisis as quickly and effectively as possible.” “The National Council for Behavioral Health is pleased to support Representatives Carter and Bustos’ legislation requiring the Drug Enforcement Administration to issue a special registration process for practitioners of telemedicine," said National Council for Behavioral Health President and CEO, Linda Rosenberg. "Due to a gap in federal law, legitimate practitioners like community addiction and mental health treatment clinics have been blocked from obtaining DEA registration that would allow them to prescribe lifesaving medications to patients with addition or mental illness via telemedicine. A special registration process can be used to permit these clinics and other treatment providers to be registered and overseen by DEA.” Background: In 2008, Congress strengthened prohibitions against distributing and dispensing controlled substances by passing the Ryan Haight Online Pharmacy Consumer Protection Act (P.L. 110-425). The Ryan Haight Act made it illegal for a practitioner to dispense controlled substances through the internet without at least one in-person patient evaluation. The legislation included the ability for the Attorney General to issue a special registration to health care providers to prescribe controlled substances via telemedicine in legitimate emergency situations, such as a lack of access to an in-person specialist. However, the waiver process has never been implemented through regulation, and thus some patients still do not have the emergency access to care they need. The Special Registration for Telemedicine Clarification Act, introduced by Carter and Bustos today, will allow physicians to prescribe medication-assisted treatment (MAT) via telemedicine.
04.11.2018	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-Ga.) released the following statement after Speaker Paul D. Ryan announced his retirement from the United States House of Representatives at the conclusion of the 115th Congress: "I thank Speaker Ryan for his tremendous leadership, commitment to conservative principles, and friendship. When Paul became Speaker he set a bold agenda to better the lives of all Americans and he delivered. Under Paul's leadership, the House has delivered historic victories like the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act to allow hardworking American families to keep more of their paychecks, a reduction of burdensome regulations on job creators, critical support for our military, and the list goes on. While great strides have been made, there is still a lot of work to do and we will continue our mission together during the remainder of Paul's time in Congress. I will miss Paul in the House, but his vision, dedication, and service has paved the way for an even brighter future. “I will always value Paul’s friendship and look forward to continuing it beyond the halls of Congress. I wish nothing but the best for Janna, Paul, and the Ryan family in their next chapter.”
03.29.2018	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-Ga.) released the following video today after discussing the benefits of federal tax reform for a local Savannah business, Nine Line Apparel. Click here to view Carter's visit and tax reform discussion at Nine Line Apparel "I recently traveled the district to speak directly with citizens and businesses in the First District about the benefits of tax reform," said Carter. "While at Nine Line Apparel, I learned that because of tax reform and the increased health of the company, Nine Line is able to give their employees more. I was told that to employees this is what is making the difference so they are able to buy Christmas presents for their kids or take a small family vacation. This is exactly why I supported the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act to reform our tax code. Tax reform is directly benefiting hardworking Americans and small businesses in the First District. Our new tax code works to allow all citizens to achieve the American dream." Congress passed the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act with Carter's support and it was signed into law at the end of last year by President Trump. The new law is the largest reform to the American tax code in more than 30 years. To see more about the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, click here.
03.20.2018	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-Ga.) introduced bipartisan legislation today to ensure pharmacists are able to advise patients when there may be a better, more affordable out-of-pocket alternative to what is covered by their insurance plan. Currently, Pharmacy Benefit Managers (PBM) are able to include requirements in contracts that prevent pharmacists from providing advice to their patients on the best and cheapest out-of-pocket alternatives to medications covered under insurance. This is commonly known as a gag clause. Pharmacists can be legally penalized, or barred, from PBM contracts because they have notified their patients of cheaper out-of-pocket alternatives. Carter's legislation, the Prescription Transparency Act, nullifies and prohibits these gag clause provisions. This will allow pharmacists to properly advise their patients and help guide them to the most affordable and best option. "As a pharmacist for more than 30 years, there were many times when I was prevented from telling my patients that there was a cheaper option because of a gag clause," said Carter."There is no reason pharmacists should not be able to talk to patients about what is best for them. Many times, my patients were senior citizens who had to choose between groceries and their prescription. These patients need and deserve the most affordable options. I introduced this legislation today to help make sure pharmacists are able to make that happen. This is an important step in our mission to lower prescription drug prices for Americans." “We salute Representatives Buddy Carter (R-Ga.) and Peter Welch (D-Vt.) for their efforts to help patients get the best price for their prescription drugs,” said National Community Pharmacists Association CEO B. Douglas Hoey, Pharmacist, MBA. "Clearly, pharmacists should be able to advise patients about the lowest-cost ways to access their medications. The Prescription Transparency Act of 2018 will assure that they can.” "APhA appreciates bringing forth this legislation to empower pharmacists to increase patients’ access to more affordable and cost-effective medicines," said the American Pharmacists Association. "For years pharmacists have been frustrated by policies that restrict their inability to help their patients lower their medication costs." Original cosponsors include: Representatives Peter Welch (D-Vt.), Doug Collins (R-Ga.), Morgan Griffith (R-Va.), Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-Wa.), and Austin Scott (R-Ga.).
03.14.2018	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-Ga.) introduced a resolution today in recognition of the Girl Scouts of the United States of America's 106th birthday. The resolution celebrates the opportunities the program provides for girls and women across the nation. "Since the founding of the Girl Scouts in Savannah, Georgia, on March 12, 1912, the program has built courage, confidence, and character in girls and women across the nation," said Carter. "Alumnae of the program have blazed trails for women and have created a better world for all of us. It is an honor to represent the birthplace of the Girl Scouts and I am proud to introduce this resolution during the program's birthday celebration and Women's History Month." "Girl Scout Week is a time to reflect on the courage, confidence, and character that our founder, Juliette Gordon Low, instilled in the girl-led Movement she created," said Girl Scouts of the USA CEO Sylvia Acevedo. "Those values have permeated the Girl Scout experience ever since. For 106 years, Girl Scouts has been the world’s best girl leadership development program, helping girls unlock their inner G.I.R.L. (Go-getter, Innovator, Risk-taker, Leader) to make the world a better place now and in the future. I want to thank Congressman Carter for his leadership and for joining in this moment of celebration. We are grateful to have him as a champion as we work to educate, inspire, and empower girls in Georgia and around the country.” Click here to view the full text of the resolution. Carter represents the First District of Georgia, which is home to Savannah, Georgia, and the birthplace of the Girl Scouts of the United States of America.
02.28.2018	In case you missed it - Corps of Engineers completes deepening of Savannah harbor’s entrance channel SAVANNAH, Ga. – The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Savannah District, today marked the end of deepening of the outer Savannah harbor. Only final touches remain in this $134 million project to deepen the entrance channel of the harbor and extend it an additional 7 miles into the Atlantic Ocean. “The completion of entrance channel dredging is perhaps the most significant milestone to date for the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project,” Col. Marvin Griffin, Commander of the Savannah District, said. “As of today, approximately half of the Savannah harbor’s 40-mile channel is deepened and better equipped to handle post-Panamax vessels. The SHEP has broad national impacts, and with this achievement, we are now halfway to realizing more than $280 million in net annual benefits for the nation.” “Reaching the midpoint of the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project is an exciting and critical milestone for not only the project, but for the entire state and nation,” said Representative Earl L. “Buddy” Carter of Georgia’s First Congressional District. “With a return on investment of 7.3 to 1, every step closer to completion is a step closer to realizing the full economic impact this project will have on the nation and the world. I am proud to represent the fastest growing port in the country in the United States Congress, and I will continue to fight to ensure the federal government meets its obligation to this top infrastructure project.” The outer harbor deepening began in September 2015 and will end early in March ahead of schedule and under budget. Completing the outer harbor deepening joins other milestones in the quest to deepen the second busiest container port on the East Coast. Removal of the Civil War ironclad CSS Georgia and the removal of the obsolete tide gate on the Savannah River’s back river were the first construction features completed for the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project, or SHEP. Completion of this contract demonstrates the SHEP is well on its way toward completion. The deepened harbor will allow larger, neo-Panamax vessels to call on the port with fewer tidal restrictions. The outer harbor now extends from approximately Fort Pulaski to about 20 miles into the Atlantic Ocean. The dredges removed approximately 12 million cubic yards of material during this phase of the deepening. Deepening the Savannah harbor will also allow neo-Panamax ships to call on the port with heavier cargo loads. This will lower fuel and transportation costs netting the nation hundreds of millions of dollars per year in savings to the economy. The benefits of the completed SHEP will be $7.30 for each $1 invested in the deepening. Later this year, the Corps of Engineers expects to complete construction on two environmental mitigation features of the SHEP. The dissolved oxygen injection system will be completed and testing will begin. In addition a raw water storage impoundment, or small reservoir, for the City of Savannah will be brought online. Completion of the entrance channel is possible because of great partnerships: Georgia Ports Authority, Georgia Department of Transportation, Great Lakes Dredge and Docks, resource agencies, and Congress. We would not have been able to execute an efficient start of construction on SHEP without the State of Georgia’s commitment and funding. Completion of the outer harbor contract demonstrates the SHEP is well on its way to completion.
02.23.2018	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-Ga.) met with employees at Lee Container in Homerville this week to discuss the benefits of tax reform for businesses in the First District of Georgia. Rep. Carter discussing tax reform with the president of Lee Container,Robert Varnedoe Speaking during the visit about the new federal tax law that was passed by Congress and signed into law by President Trump, Carter said, "the proof is in the pudding. If you look at the figures that recently came out, the tax revenue for the month of January in this country is the highest it's ever been...It's no coincidence it happened in the first month of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act." Rep. Carter at Lee Container in Homerville During the visit, the president of Lee Container, Robert Varnedoe, spoke about what federal tax reform means for their business. "The new tax law has allowed us to purchase at least three machines a year and to fully amortize them," said Varnedoe. "It allows our company to grow at a substantial rate.” Rep. Carter discussing the benefits of tax reform with employees at Lee Container
02.12.2018	U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson, R-Ga., and David Perdue, R-Ga., and U.S. Representative Buddy Carter, R-Ga.-01, today called on the Trump administration to immediately fulfill the longstanding commitment to sufficiently fund the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project after the president’s fiscal year 2019 budget requested just $49 million for the project. The Georgia lawmakers said the president’s budget request, which was released on the same day that the administration introduced a new $1.5 trillion infrastructure package, shortchanges the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project, known as SHEP. An estimated $100 million is needed in fiscal year 2019 to complete the project in the most cost-efficient and timely manner possible. Isakson, Perdue and Carter also invited President Donald Trump and Vice President Mike Pence to visit the Port of Savannah at the earliest opportunity for a tour to better understand its value to American business. “An infrastructure project with a return on investment like the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project should be an absolute priority for the federal government,” said Isakson. “We invite President Trump and Vice President Pence to the Port of Savannah to see firsthand the value this opportunity offers American businesses.” “I appreciate the president’s commitment to improving the nation’s infrastructure, but we must also sufficiently fund this vital project to which the government has already committed itself,” Isakson continued. “If this project encounters further delays, its cost only increases while the benefits slip further into the future. We will not stop working to ensure that the federal government meets its commitments to this top infrastructure project, including in the omnibus funding bill expected next month.” “The Savannah Harbor Expansion Project is one of the most important infrastructure projects in the country with the largest return on investment of any project the Army Corps of Engineers is currently managing,” said Perdue. “It is the fastest growing port in the country. We personally invite President Trump and Vice President Pence to the Port of Savannah to see firsthand the value this opportunity offers American businesses. We will not stop working to ensure that the federal government meets its multiple commitments to this top infrastructure project that already has an economic impact that reaches around the world.” “I appreciate that the Trump administration has committed to emphasize investments in ongoing construction of projects with high economic returns,” said Carter. “With a return on investment of 7.3 to 1, SHEP should absolutely be at the top of the list. Unfortunately, the number we received today is not enough. It is promising that SHEP received the highest funding level of any deep draft navigation project in the budget request today, but we have a lot more work to do. One of the main reasons I supported the budget agreement in Congress last week is because it directs increased funding to infrastructure projects. This increase should absolutely be seen in the funding provided for SHEP. With increased infrastructure spending available, the federal government must meet its obligation to fund this project, just as the state of Georgia has already done. I hope President Trump and Vice President Pence will come to the Port of Savannah to see the benefits this top infrastructure project will have on the nation firsthand. “Now, we will continue to fight to secure the funding needed to complete this project and prevent delays which only push these benefits further from reality,” Carter continued. “I will continue to fight for funding for SHEP from the administration, as well as here in Congress.” Background: In December 2017, the entire Georgia Congressional Delegation called on the administration to include critical funding for the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project (SHEP) in the president’s next budget request – the fiscal year 2019 budget request announced today. Previously, the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project received just $50.06 million of the necessary $80 – $100 million needed to ensure an on-time completion in last year’s fiscal year 2018 budget request made by the president in May 2017. The Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation Act, S.612, which was passed by the U.S. House and the U.S. Senate at the end of 2016 allows for a 75 percent federal share on harbor deepening projects up to 50 feet. Dredging began to deepen the seaward half of the Savannah harbor, which extends 18.5 miles from Fort Pulaski into the Atlantic Ocean, in September 2015. The next step will be to award a contract for dredging of the inner harbor.
02.09.2018	This morning, Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (R-Ga.) voted in support of a two-year budget agreement which is critical for our military and national security, as well as the First District and conservative priorities. The budget agreement fully funds our military and ends the dangerous cycle of funding our national defense with short-term, stop-gap spending bills. It responsibly increases defense spending while unwinding the sequestration cuts which have crippled our armed forces. “As the proud representative of every branch of the military, I voted for this legislation because our troops, veterans, and military families deserve better,” said Carter. “For too long the brave men and women who serve our country have had to do more with less. Over the last 8 years, troop numbers and resources were slashed. Last year, we lost nearly four times as many service members due to accident and training incidents than we lost in combat. This is horrifying and completely unacceptable. This agreement finally makes our military and national security a priority again. Members of our military put their lives on the line for our country, we must provide the support to ensure they are the most well prepared and well equipped force on the planet. This legislation works to make that happen.” Beyond rebuilding our military, the agreement directs funding to additional critical priorities in the First District. This includes funding to invest in American infrastructure, reduce the backlog at the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), combat the opioid crisis, and promote disease research. The agreement also includes an extension of the Nuclear Production Tax Credit. Carter fought for this inclusion to drive down costs for Georgia ratepayers as construction continues on Units 3 and 4 at Plant Vogtle. “This budget agreement will directly benefit the First District of Georgia,” said Carter. “It invests in American infrastructure and will be vital in the fight to secure resources for our ports and the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project. It works to reduce the intolerable backlog at the VA which impacts so many of our veterans living here in the First District. It also includes an important provision which will drive down power costs for Georgians and increase access to electricity as construction continues at Plant Vogtle. I am proud to support this legislation today because it is critical for the future of our area.” The budget agreement also pushes forward conservative priorities including pro-life measures and the continued repeal of Obamacare. “Make no mistake,” said Carter. “I wish this legislation would have gone much further to end Washington’s out of control spending addiction. However, it includes several conservative victories that I must support including continuing the fight to end Obamacare and protecting the sanctity of life. I am absolutely committed to reining in our national debt and cutting up the credit cards in DC, and I will continue that mission.” The Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018 passed both the House and Senate with Carter’s support. The legislation extends discretionary spending to March 23, 2018 at current levels while amending the Budget Control Act to raise spending limits on defense and non-defense spending over fiscal year 2018 and fiscal year 2019. The legislation also establishes two new joint select committees on pensions and budget process reform. Additionally, the legislation: Breaks parity, with a bigger increase for defense than non-defense spending; Provides emergency spending; Incudes an additional four-year extension of the Children’s Health Insurance Program on top of the six-year extension passed on January 22; Extends and modifies numerous Medicare and public health policies; Repeals Obamacare’s Independent Payment Advisory Board (IPAB); Makes cotton eligible for the Price Loss Coverage and Agriculture Rise Coverage programs, and; Extends the Nuclear Production Tax Credit.
02.09.2018	This morning, Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-Ga.) supported a two-year budget agreement which directs $10 billion to invest in infrastructure projects over the next two years. This infrastructure investment will be vital as Carter works to secure funding for the Port of Brunswick and the Port of Savannah. "A strong investment in American infrastructure is a strong investment in the First District," said Carter. "The funding directed to infrastructure in the budget agreement I supported this morning paves the way towards securing the vital resources we need for our ports. Now, I will fight to ensure this funding is used in the best possible way for the First District and for the Ports of Brunswick and Savannah." The Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018 passed both the House and Senate with Carter’s support and was signed into law by President Trump this morning. The legislation extends discretionary spending to March 23, 2018 at current levels while amending the Budget Control Act to raise spending limits on defense and non-defense spending over fiscal year 2018 and fiscal year 2019. The legislation directs a $10 billion investment in American infrastructure. The strong investment in American infrastructure is directed to programs related to innovative capital projects, rural broadband, rural water and wastewater, clean and safe drinking water, surface transportation, and energy.
02.09.2018	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-Ga.) supported a two-year budget agreement this morning which directs $40.9 billion to support our Navy sailors, ships, and submarines. This funding will be vital as Carter works to secure funding for the continued construction for a new class of 12 ballistic missile submarines (SSBNs) which will one day replace the existing Ohio-class SSBNs such as those currently homeported at Naval Submarine Base Kings Bay. "This funding is critical to ensure the Ohio-class replacement program stays on track," said Carter. "The budget agreement I voted for this morning contains a strong commitment to our sailors and to adding new ships to the fleet. I am thrilled to see this funding commitment as we continue to fight to secure the necessary resources to make sure Kings Bay remains the elite home to the Atlantic ballistic submarine fleet." The Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018 passed both the House and Senate with Carter’s support and was signed into law by President Trump this morning. The legislation extends discretionary spending to March 23, 2018 at current levels while amending the Budget Control Act to raise spending limits on defense and non-defense spending over fiscal year 2018 and fiscal year 2019. The legislation directs a $40.9 billion investment to get our ships back to sea. This includes $12.7 billion to repair the ships we have, $26.2 billion to add new ships to the fleet, and $2 billion to recruit and train sailors.
02.09.2018	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-Ga.) supported a two-year budget agreement this morning which directs a $46.4 billion investment in military aircrafts. This includes $11.7 billion to repair or upgrade old aircrafts, which is critical as Carter continues to fight for funding to keep the A-10 Thunderbolts stationed at Moody Air Force Base flying. "There is no question that the Warthog provides vital close air support for our troops," said Carter. "As we continue to fight to keep the A-10 flying, this funding investment in aircraft repairs and upgrades is huge. I am proud to support this legislation today for the future of the A-10 and Moody Air Force Base, and I will continue to fight to provide the critical resources needed." The Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018 passed both the House and Senate with Carter’s support and was signed into law by President Trump this morning. The legislation extends discretionary spending to March 23, 2018 at current levels while amending the Budget Control Act to raise spending limits on defense and non-defense spending over fiscal year 2018 and fiscal year 2019. The legislation directs $46.4 billion to improve our air power resources. This includes $11.7 billion to repair or upgrade old aircrafts, $32.5 billion to replace aircrafts too old or broken to repair, and $2.2 billion to recruit and train more airmen and aircraft mechanics.
02.07.2018	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-Ga.) introduced legislation today to protect timber land owners in times of catastrophic loss. Currently, after a catastrophic loss, 70% of timber farmers have no recourse due to limitations in the tax code and because timber is not eligible for federal crop insurance. Carter's legislation, the Forest Recovery Act, allows individuals or businesses growing timber for sale to take a tax deduction up to the fair market value lost after a catastrophic event. Farmers are required to reforest within five years to gain the deduction. "Timber takes 20 to 80 years before it is able to be cut and sold," said Carter. "This makes it extremely difficult for timber farmers to recover after a catastrophic loss. Unfortunately, the current system provides no recourse for these farmers during times of catastrophic loss. This is pushing farmers away from timber farming, limiting available forest products, hurting rural economies, and fails to protect our environment. "I introduced this legislation because we have seen devastating fires and hurricanes in Southeast Georgia recently. I heard straight from timber farmers and introduced this legislation to ensure this industry, which is critical to rural economies, is able to recover after a catastrophic event." Original cosponsors of the legislation include: Representatives Ralph Abraham (R-La.-05), Sanford Bishop (D-Ga.-02), Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.-06), Steven Palazzo (R-Ms.-04), Austin Scott (R-Ga.-08), Bruce Westerman (R-Ar.-04).
01.30.2018	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-Ga.) released the following statement in response to President Donald J. Trump's State of the Union Address tonight: "President Trump spoke tonight about the strong state of our union. Over the past year, Congress has worked with President Trump to produce concrete results for the American people. Due to a bold agenda and pro-growth legislation like the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, our economy is growing, unemployment is down, and companies across the nation are creating jobs and investing in their employees. We continue to see companies announce wage increases, bonuses, increased benefits, and investments in our economy. "We will continue building on this work with President Trump in the House as there is still a lot work to do. United, we will push forward to improve American infrastructure, strengthen our military and national defense, combat the opioid crisis, lower health care and prescription drug costs, and more. Together, we will continue on this bright path towards a safer and stronger America."
01.22.2018	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-Ga.) released the following statement after Senate Democrats ended their block of a House-passed funding bill that will re-open the federal government and extend the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP) for six years. "A reckless minority in the Senate decided last week to side with illegal immigrants over paying our military and providing insurance for our children. This reckless minority chose to hold our government hostage this weekend. "It is now confirmed that Senate Democrats did this just to play games. They played games with funding for our military, troops, veterans, military families, and hardworking federal workers like the men and women at the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center and they played games with children's health insurance just to pass today what they clearly could have and should have supported on Friday. "These political games are irresponsible and unacceptable. "Moving forward, I urge these colleagues to learn from this. Washington Democrats got nothing but egg on their face during this shutdown. It's past time to put the best interest of our nation ahead of playing politics. "I am grateful this ridiculous Schumer Shutdown is finally over. Now, let's get back to work for the American people." Last Thursday, Carter supported House passed legislation to keep the government open and extend the Children's Health Insurance Program for six years. This legislation was blocked in the Senate by a majority of Senate Democrats resulting in a government shutdown. Today, Senate Democrats ended their block of this legislation. Both the House and the Senate passed legislation to re-open the government and extend the Children's Health Insurance Program for six years.
01.19.2018	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-Ga.) voted tonight to fund the military, extend the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP) and prevent a government shutdown. The stop-gap measure, which passed the House tonight, extends government and defense funding through February 16, 2018 and extends the CHIP for six years. "Tonight I voted to fund the military, extend the Children's Health Insurance Program and prevent a damaging government shutdown," said Carter. "It is extremely frustrating and disappointing to again be in this position, but the House sent spending bills to the Senate months ago and they have not moved thanks to the dysfunction of Senate Democrats. The Senate must move past this dysfunction and work with us to create fiscally responsible spending bills to prevent this endless cycle of budget bandaids. "I sincerely urge my colleagues in the Senate to stop playing dangerous party politics and pass this legislation in support of our military and children's health insurance. They should not have to pay the price for irresponsible legislators."
01.11.2018	The U.S. Department of the Treasury and the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) confirmed today that hardworking Americans will receive bigger paychecks due to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. The IRS released new withholding guidelines today for employers to implement the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. According to the Treasury, "with this guidance, most American workers will begin to see bigger paychecks. We estimate that 90 percent of wage earners will experience an increase in their take home pay." "I am thrilled to see that the IRS has confirmed today what we have known all along," said Carter. "Thanks to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, hardworking Americans and families will get to keep more of their paychecks. It really is wonderful to see the free market work when we close unfair loopholes, simplify the tax code and get the federal government out of the way. On top of keeping more hard earned pay, companies across the country are announcing bonuses, wage increases, and increased benefits because of tax reform. The Tax Cuts and and Jobs Act is delivering on our promise of bigger paychecks and fairer, lower taxes." Employers are encouraged to implement the new withholding tables as soon as possible, but should do so no later than February 15, 2018. For more information about the withholding guidance from the U.S. Department of the Treasury, click here. For more information about the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, visit fairandsimple.gop.
01.05.2018	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-Ga.) today renewed his demand that the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management (BOEM) schedule a public hearing in Coastal Georgia to answer questions and provide further details about the Trump Administration's offshore energy leasing plan. Carter made the same request under the Obama Administration when Georgia was included in the administration's 5 year oil and gas leasing proposal. "While I applaud the Trump Administration for moving forward with a plan to increase America's energy independence, I am committed to ensuring any moves are made in the best interest of the First District," said Carter. "This starts with having an open and honest discussion here on the coast where Coastal Georgians can ask questions and let their voices be heard. I will absolutely be helping to facilitate this meeting and I will stay in contact with BOEM until it happens." To view the request Carter sent to BOEM today, click here. Full Text: Dear Dr. Cruickshank, As the Acting Director of the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management (BOEM), you are tasked with leading a group dedicated not only to our offshore energy management, but also the environmental stewardship of our waters and coastlines. Representing the First District of Georgia, I have the honor and privilege of representing the entire coastline, from the Florida border to the South Carolina border. This responsibility includes advocating for issues impacting my constituents and our beautiful coastline. While I support the Administration’s move towards energy independence, yesterday’s announcement by Secretary Zinke of the 2019-2024 National Outer Continental Shelf Oil and Gas Leasing Draft Proposed Program has left me with some questions. In the proposal, the Georgia Department of Natural Resources submitted comments in which they supported environmentally sound efforts, but want to see a number of issues addressed before that happens. I have also heard from my constituents that they would like to hear more information from BOEM about the plan and the process and let their opinions be heard. As such, I would like to request that as part of the public comment period, BOEM schedule a public hearing in Coastal Georgia to answer questions and provide further detail of the plan’s impact on the coast and my constituents. While I support an expansive energy independence policy, Georgians should have the opportunity to know more about the new proposal and how it could possibly impact them and their surroundings. I would like to offer my assistance to facilitate this meeting because of its importance to my constituents and our district. I look forward to your response. Sincerely, Earl L. “Buddy” Carter Member of Congress
12.15.2017	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-Ga.) today praised the conferenced version of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act which maintains the Federal Historic Preservation Tax Incentives program. Carter fought to protect these historic tax credits in the final agreement. "As soon as I heard these historic tax credits were on the line, I went straight to the chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee," said Carter. "I told him how lucky I am to be from one of the most beautiful places in the world, and an important part of this beauty is the continued historic preservation across the district. I also told him what I heard from constituents in the First District of Georgia to make sure he knew how important this program is for our area. Throughout the negotiations we maintained this dialogue and I am thrilled to see the program has been preserved to help protect the charm of our great cities for generations to come." The Federal Historic Preservation Tax Incentives program encourages private sector investment in the rehabilitation and re-use of historic buildings. The program was eliminated in the original House version of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act and modified in the Senate version. The final compromised version released today maintains the program and requires that the credit has to be claimed over five years.
11.16.2017	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-Ga.) voted today for the largest overhaul of the American tax code in more than thirty years. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which passed the House today with Carter's support, cuts taxes, creates jobs and works to stimulate our economy. In Georgia, it has been estimated this legislation will lead to the creation of 29,521 jobs in our state and raise after-tax income for middle class families in Georgia by $2,355. "I am thrilled this legislation passed the House today," said Carter. "Our tax code is overly complicated, outdated, and stifling our job creators. Finally, after more than thirty years, the House has passed a plan to provide relief. This legislation not only reduces individual rates across the board, it also enables our job creators to invest more into middle, working class families. This bill levels the playing field for all Americans and allows families in the First District to keep more of their hard earned paychecks. I urge my colleagues in the Senate to act swiftly so we can work with President Trump to get this across the finish line as soon as possible." Among other tax relief measures, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act: Lowers individual tax rates for low- and middle- income Americans; Significantly increases the standard deduction from $6,350 to $12,000 for individuals and $12,700 to $24,000 for married couples; Eliminates special-interest deductions; Establishes a new Family Credit, which includes expanding the Child Tax Credit from $1,000 to $1,600; Preserves the Earned Income Tax Credit and the home mortgage interest deduction for existing mortgages and maintains the home mortgage deduction for newly purchased homes up to $500,000; Lowers the corporate rate to 20%, down from 35%; and, Reduces the tax rate on small business to no more than 25% - the lowest tax rate on small business income since World War II. For additional details on the legislation, click here.
11.16.2017	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-Ga.) introduced legislation today to protect American veterans from military service deposit errors made by federal agencies. The Correcting Miscalculations in Veterans' Pensions Act authorizes federal agencies that make a mistake in calculating military service deposits and pensions to pay the incorrectly accrued interest on behalf of veteran employees. "I introduced this legislation because I have heard from veterans faced with this unacceptable problem," said Carter. "After serving our nation, veterans are moving on to work for federal agencies and these agencies are miscalculating their pensions, accruing thousands of dollars in interest without the veteran ever even knowing about it. Our current system requires these veterans to repay sometimes tens of thousands of dollars in interest due to no fault of their own. My legislation says federal agencies, not our brave veterans, should pay the interest payments when the federal government is responsible for the miscalculation. This is not how our veterans should be treated when they return home and it should not be allowed to continue." Background: Currently, American veterans working at a federal agency are required to pay a military service deposit in order to receive their military service pension while working for the federal agency. Due to a misclassification in the type of the employee’s status, the federal agency will therefore charge different interest rates on those military service deposits, often leading to miscalculations. Once the federal agency becomes aware of the miscalculation, they will contact the veteran/employee and notify them of the need to pay back the balance with accrued interest. In some scenarios, that interest can be tens of thousands of dollars that the veteran would be required to pay. Currently, there is no recourse for veterans to mediate that payment and there is no authority for the federal agency to wipe away the incorrectly accrued interest. Carter's legislation, the Correcting Miscalculations in Veterans' Pensions Act, authorizes agencies that make a mistake in calculating military service deposits and pensions to pay the incorrectly accrued interest on behalf of the veterans.
11.14.2017	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-Ga.) voted today to reauthorize the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) for five years. "Having the honor of representing the entire coast of Georgia, I know firsthand how important this program is for many families," said Carter. "Especially with the devastating hurricanes that have impacted our area recently, the NFIP is more important than ever. I am glad this legislation not only reauthorizes the program, but also includes important reforms to help policyholders." H.R. 2874, the 21st Century Flood Reform Act, passed the House today with Carter's support. Among other provisions, the legislation: Reauthorizes the NFIP for five years; Provides property owners with more flexibility by ensuring there is a robust private market for flood insurance; Improves mapping technology, and; Increases the threshold by which a property with excessive lifetime claims is removed from the NFIP.
11.14.2017	The United States House of Representatives today approved a defense agreement between the House and the United States Senate which includes $103 million for A-10 Thunderbolt wing upgrades. Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-Ga.), who represents Moody Air Force Base in Congress, has been a leader in the fight to protect the A-10. "I am thrilled this support for the A-10 remained in the Conference Report," said Carter. "This legislation ensures the Warthog has the funding it needs to continue flying. The A-10 is battle tested in the fight against ISIS and our troops on the ground need it to keep flying to provide vital close air support." The House approved the Conference Report to Accompany the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2018 today with Carter's support. The report is an agreement of the House and Senate passed defense measures for fiscal year 2018. The NDAA is the primary way Congress meets its most important constitutional obligations to "provide for the common defense." The legislation sets defense policy for the year and supports funds for base budget requirements of $634.2 billion. The legislation increases troop pay and benefits, supports missions to defeat ISIS, and restores the readiness of our military.
11.14.2017	The United States House of Representatives passed a measure today advancing a program vital to the future of Naval Submarine Base Kings Bay which authorizes continued construction on the next generation of submarines. Additionally, the Conference Report to Accompany the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2018 expands the Navy's use of the National Sea-Based Deterrence Fund to drive down costs for the Columbia-class submarine program. Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-Ga.), who represents Kings Bay and Camden County in Congress, has been a leader in the fight for the replacement program. "Kings Bay is the elite home to the Atlantic ballistic submarine fleet and this legislation will work to prevent any interruptions in future missions," said Carter. "I am glad the Ohio-class replacement received strong support in the Conference Report and I will continue to do everything I can to ensure construction continues." The House approved the Conference Report to Accompany the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2018 today with Carter's support. The report is an agreement of the House and Senate passed defense measures for fiscal year 2018. The NDAA is the primary way Congress meets its most important constitutional obligations to "provide for the common defense." The legislation sets defense policy for the year and supports funds for base budget requirements of $634.2 billion. The legislation increases troop pay and benefits, supports missions to defeat ISIS, and restores the readiness of our military.
11.14.2017	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-Ga.) today officially supported including a repeal of the individual mandate in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. "Including the repeal of the individual mandate in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act is the right move to make," said Carter. "The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act is a bold tax plan that will work for all Americans. While delivering on our promise of a fairer tax code, we should use this important opportunity to move another step closer to delivering on our promise of repealing Obamacare." Carter cosponsored the Republican Study Committee's amendment to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Acttoday which repeals the individual mandate. "We are not giving up on repealing Obamacare and delivering a patient-centered system," said Carter. "Including the repeal of the individual mandate with tax reform proves we are serious about delivering on this promise."
11.13.2017	Today the United States House of Representatives unanimously passed Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter's (R-Ga.) legislation to align the federal government's acquisition practices with those of the private sector while delivering taxpayer savings in the process. Currently, 99% of heavy equipment used by the federal government is purchased due to Federal Acquisition Regulations predominately only allowing leasing or purchasing of heavy equipment. The Government Accountability Office (GAO) found that federal agencies many times did not even perform a lease versus purchase analysis when making acquisition decisions leading to purchasing for nearly all decisions. Carter's legislation works to implement common sense reforms to encourage renting when possible to provide the government significant cost savings. "This measure will save taxpayer dollars and I am glad my colleagues joined me in passing this bill today," said Carter. "It's time for the federal government to get in line with private sector businesses, as well as state and local governments, who are turning to rentals of heavy equipment for significant cost savings. With our national debt out of control, this bill is exactly the kind of step we must start taking. I urge my colleagues in the Senate to work with us to rein in our national debt with commonsense solutions." Background: The private sector continues to increase the use of rentals when procuring heavy equipment to decrease costs. It has been estimated that private sector companies rent nearly 60% of heavy equipment. In comparison, the federal government purchases 99% of heavy equipment. Additionally, state and local governments have used rentals to save taxpayer dollars. The Texas Department of Transportation estimates that its rental program has resulted in a positive financial impact of $10.8 million as of fiscal year 2016. Carter's legislation, the Federal Acquisition Savings Act, requires the heads of executive agencies to consider equipment rental in any cost-effective analysis for equipment procurement.
11.13.2017	Today Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue designated 83 counties in Georgia as primary natural disaster areas due to damage from Hurricane Irma. This declaration makes farm operators in primary counties and those counties contiguous to such primary counties eligible to be considered for certain assistance from the Farm Service Agency (FSA) if certain requirements are met. The assistance includes FSA emergency loans. Primary counties declared under the disaster designation in the First District of Georgia include Bacon, Brantley, Camden, Charlton, Clinch, Echols, Effingham, Glynn, Liberty, Long, Lowndes, McIntosh, Pierce, Wayne, and Ware counties. Contiguous counties declared under the disaster declaration in the First District of Georgia include Bryan and Chatham counties. "I am very glad this declaration was made today," said Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-Ga.). "Even though time has passed, our community is still rebuilding from Hurricane Irma. One community with an especially hard road to recovery is our agricultural industry. I am glad this new assistance is available and we will be there to assist every step of the way." Farmers in eligible counties have 8 months from the date of the declaration to apply for emergency loans. For more information about the declaration and the full list of designated areas, click here. For additional information about assistance, affected farmers can contact their local FSA office or Carter's office.
11.07.2017	Today, Representatives Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (R-GA) Mark DeSaulnier (D-CA) introduced bipartisan legislation to better inform pharmacists about prescription drug dispensing. The Empowering Pharmacists in the Fight Against Opioid Abuse Act would require federal agencies to develop and distribute materials to better educate pharmacists on when they are allowed by law to decline to fill a prescription for a controlled substance. These circumstances include the suspicion of fraud, forgery, or other forms of alteration. “As a pharmacist for more than thirty years, I viewed addressing prescription drug abuse as part of my professional duty and I have continued this work in the United States House of Representatives,” said Representative Carter. “I know firsthand that in many cases, pharmacists are the last line of defense against patients plagued with addiction or interested in wrongdoing. Now more than ever we need commonsense legislation like this to ensure pharmacists and health care professionals have the tools they need when faced with this situation. We must work together if we’re going to end this epidemic that is getting worse by the day and I thank Representative DeSaulnier for working with me on this critical issue.” “Given that 75% of opioid abusers reported that their first exposure was a prescription drug, what happens at a pharmacy counter can help reduce addictions and save lives,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. “Pharmacists need the resources to know when and why they can decline to dispense controlled substances to people at risk of becoming addicted or those trying to abuse the system. I thank Congressman Carter for lending his expertise to fight the biggest public health crisis facing our nation.” “Opioid abuse is a national health crisis with devastating impacts on patients and communities,” said B. Douglas Hoey RPh, MBA, CEO of the National Community Pharmacists Association. “This crisis requires a multifaceted approach to adequately address it. The Empowering Pharmacists in the Fight Against Opioid Abuse Act recognizes that pharmacists play an important role in the health care system and have expertise that ought to be fully utilized in the effort to combat the opioid abuse crisis. NCPA is proud to support this legislation and we commend Representatives Carter and DeSaulnier for their leadership in introducing it.” The Empowering Pharmacists in the Fight Against Opioid Abuse Act would require the Drug Enforcement Administration, in consultation with other federal agencies, to establish materials to train pharmacists, health care providers, and patients on best practices that ensure controlled substances are only dispensed when there is a valid prescription that is issued for a legitimate medical purpose.
11.03.2017	The U.S. House of Representatives today passed the CHAMPIONING HEALTHY KIDS Act with Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter's (R-Ga.) support. The legislation extends the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP) for five years. Carter supported this legislation in the House Energy and Commerce Committee and spoke in support of the bill's passage during consideration. Click here to view or download Rep. Carter's comments on CHIP. "We’re here over a month late to reauthorize CHIP, while the families of 9 million children are holding their breath to see whether their kids are going to have health insurance," said Carter."We’re bringing this up now because my colleagues on the other side of the aisle asked us to delay, and in good faith, we did. "Over 232,000 children in Georgia rely on CHIP for their health insurance. My constituents are asking why we’ve delayed it. I am sad to tell them that my colleagues on the other side of the aisle decided to delay our efforts to pass the bill out of the Energy and Commerce Committee and they then decided to delay bringing the bill to the floor for a vote. "I would hope they have a good reason for these delaying tactics, but the truth is that they opposed a provision requested by President Obama in his fiscal year 2013 - fiscal year 2017 budgets that has a minor impact on the highest earners under Medicare. "This is politics at its worst, and I stand here today to say enough is enough. "The Energy and Commerce Committee’s markup of this bill was stalled three times because our friends decided to oppose a policy the previous Administration supported. When the American people tell us that they are fed-up with partisan politics, this is exactly what they are talking about."
11.02.2017	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-Ga.) today praised the introduction of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, the House Republican tax relief plan. "This is a big day," said Carter. "Today, we introduced a tax relief plan that will finally deliver relief from America's antiquated and overly burdensome tax code which I believe is the greatest threat to economic opportunity in this country. I have been asking families across the First District what they would do with the hard-earned dollars our plan would let Americans keep from their paychecks. They told me they will help their families, give back to their communities, or invest in their businesses and create jobs. This plan will empower all Americans to achieve the American Dream and I am excited to work with my colleagues to finalize the largest reform of our tax code in more than thirty years. It's about time." Among other tax relief measures, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act: Lowers individual tax rates for low- and middle- income Americans to Zero, 12%, 25%, and 35% while continuing to maintain 39.6% for high-income Americans; Significantly increases the standard deduction from $6,350 to $12,000 for individuals and $12,700 to $24,000 for married couples; Eliminates special-interest deductions; Establishes a new Family Credit, which includes expanding the Child Tax Credit from $1,000 to $1,600; Preserves the Earned Income Tax Credit and the home mortgage interest deduction for existing mortgages and maintains the home mortgage deduction for newly purchased homes up to $500,000; Lowers the corporate rate to 20%, down from 35%; and, Reduces the tax rate on small business to no more than 25% - the lowest tax rate on small business income since World War II. For more details from the House Committee on Ways and Means, click here.
10.12.2017	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-GA) today praised President Trump's Executive Order to improve access, increase choices, and lower costs for health care. "Thanks to dysfunction in the Senate, Congress has not been able to deliver on our promise to repeal Obamacare and replace it with a patient-centered system." said Carter. "While I would have preferred these moves come from Congress, I am grateful President Trump acted today to deliver relief to Americans suffering under Obamacare. This Executive Order works to deliver choice and control back to patients and is a good step towards lowering health care costs. I look forward to continued work with President Trump to finally repeal Obamacare and lower health care costs for all Americans." According to the White House, the order: directs the Secretary of Labor to consider expanding access to Association Health Plans, which could potentially allow American employers to form groups across State Lines; directs the Departments of Labor, Treasury, and Health and Human Services to consider expanding coverage through low cost shorter-term limited duration insurance; and directs the Departments of Treasury, Labor, and Health and Human Services to consider changes to Health Reimbursement Arrangements so employers can make better use of them for their employees.
10.05.2017	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (GA-01) voted today for the House Republican budget for the coming year. The proposal would balance the budget within 10 years, strengthen our national defense, and work to rein in Washington's spending and improper payments. "I have long said that the national debt is the single greatest threat to our national security," said Carter. "It is past time for Washington to finally learn how to balance a budget just like hard working families, small businesses, and local governments do every day. Our plan finally gets the federal government on track and balances the budget by reforming government, growing the economy, and reining in Washington's spending addiction." The budget also paves the way for tax reform. It includes reconciliation instructions to allow tax reform legislation to move through Congress in a fast-track process. "This legislation paves the way for bold, pro-growth tax reform," said Carter. "Our antiquated and overly burdensome tax code is the greatest threat to economic opportunity in this country. Passage of this legislation today is the first step in an important process to finally reform our tax code and deliver relief to all Americans." Key provisions of the House Fiscal Year 2018 Budget include: balancing the budget in 10 years without raising taxes; supporting robust funding for our troops and improved readiness; improving the sustainability of Medicare; returning significant authority to the States; incorporating the House-passed American Health Care Act and all of its savings; instructing 11 House committees to achieve $203 billion in mandaotry savings and reforms; and aiming to reduce government-wide improper payments by $700 billion. In addition to the House Fiscal Year 2018 Budget, Carter voted in support of the budget proposal put forward by the Republican Study Committee which would balance the budget within a ten-year window, move forward with policies to ensure solvency of entitlement programs, and repeal Obamacare through the reconciliation process.
10.03.2017	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (GA-01) voted today to extend protections for the unborn. "There is overwhelming scientific evidence proving that precious babies are capable of feeling pain after 20 weeks," said Carter. "As a health care professional, father, grandfather, and Congressman, I am proud to support this legislation today to put a necessary end to the excruciating abortion methods used in late term pregnancies. This is a great win in the fight to stand up for those who cannot stand up for themselves, but it does not end here. It's past time to pass permanent federal legislation to protect the sanctity of human life from conception and I look forward to the day we can finally protect innocent lives at any stage of gestation." The Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act, which passed the House today with Carter's support, would ban abortions nationwide 20 weeks or more after conception except in cases of rape or incest or to save the life of the mother. Carter is a cosponsor of the legislation.
09.19.2017	Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (R-GA) today announced that the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) is honoring his request to extend tax relief to victims of Hurricane Irma. As a result, residents and businesses in the entire state of Georgia now have until January 31, 2018, to file certain individual and business tax returns, as well as other tax relief measures. “Businesses and families in Georgia should be focused on rebuilding and recovering from Hurricane Irma, not meeting arbitrary IRS deadlines,” said Carter. “I appreciate the IRS honoring my request to extend this necessary tax relief to our area.” According to the IRS, this relief postpones various tax filing and payment deadlines for Georgia taxpayers that occurred starting on Sept. 7, 2017. As a result, affected individuals and businesses will have until Jan. 31, 2018, to file returns and pay any taxes that were originally due during this period. The IRS automatically provides filing and penalty relief to any taxpayer with an IRS address of record located in the disaster area. Thus, taxpayers need not contact the IRS to get this relief.
09.16.2017	Federal recovery resources are now available for all 159 counties in Georgia. Counties in Georgia may now request funding under the Public Assistance grant program to cover eligible debris removal, emergency protective measures, and the repair or rebuilding of public facilities such as roads, bridges, water control facilities, buildings, equipment, public utilities, parks and recreational facilities. The announcement from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) comes just days after Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (GA-01) urged the Trump Administration to expedite federal assistance for counties hit by Hurricane Irma. "These federal resources will be critical as our communities continue to rebuild," Carter said."I am pleased this assistance is now available and I will continue to fight to ensure the First District receives what is necessary to recover." Application procedures for state and local governments will be explained at a series of state/federal applicant briefings to be announced in the affected area.
09.13.2017	U.S. Representative Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-GA-01), along with Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) and Representatives Austin Scott (R-GA-08) and Rick Allen (R-GA-12), today requested that the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) extend federal tax return and payment deadlines for all victims in the Presidentially declared disaster in Georgia due to Hurricane Irma. In a letter to IRS Commissioner John Koskinen, the delegation wrote, "We request you extend federal tax return and payment deadlines for all victims in the Presidentially declared disaster in Georgia due to Hurricane Irma. As you may know, President Donald J. Trump approved Governor Nathan Deal’s request on September 7 for a federal disaster declaration in 30 Georgia counties. In the days since, Governor Deal requested that declaration be extended for hazard mitigation and Public Assistance to all 159 counties in Georgia. In addition, he has requested the declaration be extended to include Individual Assistance for six Coastal Georgia counties including Bryan, Camden, Chatham, Glynn, Liberty, and McIntosh Counties. As our state embarks on the process of recovery, this declaration could well be expanded. Hurricane Irma brought devastating destruction across the State of Georgia. The state experienced storm surge of up to 11 feet, winds exceeding 60 miles an hour, and 3 Georgians lost their lives. While the full impact of the storm has not been fully realized, the magnitude of flood and wind damage as well as continued power and sewer outages merits immediate relief for the victims of this storm. Excluding those residents of counties not designated for Individual Assistance by the Federal Emergency Management Agency ignores the tremendous burdens currently faced by hardworking Georgia families and businesses. Thank you for your attention to this important matter. We urge you to allow individuals and businesses affected by this devastating storm to focus their attention on rebuilding their lives rather than meeting these deadlines." Click here to view the letter sent to Commissioner Koskinen.
09.12.2017	U.S. Representative Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-GA-01), along with Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) and Representatives Sanford Bishop (D-GA-02), Drew Ferguson (R-GA-03), Hank Johnson (D-GA-04), Karen Handel (R-GA-06), Rob Woodall (R-GA-07), Austin Scott (R-GA-08), Doug Collins (R-GA-09), Jody Hice (R-GA-10), Barry Loudermilk (R-GA-11), Rick Allen (R-GA-12), David Scott (D-GA-13), and Tom Graves (R-GA-14), today requested expedited approval of Governor Nathan Deal's request for Individual Assistance declarations for Bryan, Camden, Chatham, Glynn, Liberty, and McIntosh Counties as well as Public Assistance, including direct federal assistance, for all 159 counties within the State of Georgia, and Hazard Mitigation statewide. In a letter to President Donald Trump, the delegation wrote, "We write to urge you to expedite consideration of Governor Nathan Deal’s request for a major disaster declaration for the State of Georgia as a result of the devastation caused by Hurricane Irma. Specifically, Governor Nathan Deal and the State of Georgia have requested Individual Assistance declarations for Bryan, Camden, Chatham, Glynn, Liberty, and McIntosh Counties as well as Public Assistance, including direct federal assistance, for all 159 counties within the State of Georgia, and Hazard Mitigation statewide. Hurricane Irma brought severe destruction to homes and businesses throughout the State of Georgia. The state experienced storm surge of up to 11 feet, winds exceeding 60 miles an hour, and 3 Georgians lost their lives. While the full impact of the storm has not been fully realized, additional federal assistance is urgently needed to ensure public safety and continued recovery. Many of us have personally visited much of the affected areas and can attest that this storm brought significant damage warranting additional federal assistance, including Individual Assistance in the named counties. As the Georgia Emergency Management Agency and the Federal Emergency Management Agency teams work diligently to conduct assessments throughout the state, we urge your Administration to urgently take Governor Deal’s request into consideration and expedite his request for Individual Assistance, as well as Public Assistance. Families and businesses in those counties hit hardest by this storm should not need to wait for Individual Assistance declaration. Beyond denying these families much-needed assistance programs in their time of need, a delay could prevent businesses and individuals from receiving tax relief and deadline extensions from the Internal Revenue Service. Such uncertainty impedes the ability of our constituents to recover from this devastating storm. We urge you to swiftly approve this request and any further requests by Governor Deal for Individual Assistance. Thank you for your consideration and for your Administration’s ongoing efforts to mitigate and respond to the impact of Hurricane Irma." Click here to view the letter sent to President Trump.
09.08.2017	President Donald J. Trump today approved Georgia's emergency declaration. The announcement comes shortly after Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (GA-01) requested that President Trump expedite the approval of Governor Nathan Deal's emergency declaration request. The approval authorizes the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to identify, mobilize, and provide equipment and resources necessary to alleviate the impacts of Hurricane Irma. Debris removal and emergency protective measures, including direct Federal assistance, will be provided at 75 percent Federal funding. "This is extremely welcome news," said Carter. "We know firsthand in the First District how severe the impacts of a hurricane can be and approving this emergency declaration before the storm arrives in Georgia is very important for our relief efforts. This will be critical for efforts to save lives, protect property, and ensure public safety. We could have a long road ahead of us, but we are taking every action possible to prepare." The emergency declaration applies to the counties included in Governor Deal's request. These counties are Appling, Atkinson, Bacon, Brantley, Bryan, Bulloch, Burke, Camden, Candler, Charlton, Chatham, Clinch, Coffee, Echols, Effingham, Emanuel, Evans, Glynn, Jenkins, Jeff Davis, Liberty, Long, McIntosh, Pierce, Screven, Tattnall, Toombs, Treutlen, Wayne, and Ware.
09.08.2017	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (GA-01) today voted for emergency assistance for Hurricanes Irma and Harvey. The legislation also funds the government and raises the debt ceiling for three months. "With Hurricane Irma heading our way, I absolutely had to vote for this legislation today," said Carter. "While I do not support the overall package and believe it does nothing to provide the structural reforms necessary to rein in Washington's spending addiction, I cannot in good faith vote against legislation which funds hurricane relief efforts as the representative of the entire coast of Georgia. We know firsthand in the First District of Georgia the devastation of a hurricane and this funding will be critical to rebuild at home if we need it after Irma and for our neighbors rebuilding throughout the country." The Senate Amendment to H. Res. 502 approved in the House today contains $15.25 billion in emergency funding for immediate response and recovery for communities impacted by hurricanes. This includes: $7.4 billion for the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Disaster Relief Fund; $7.4 billion in emergency funding for the Community Development Block Grants to rebuild, and; $450 million for the Small Business Administration Disaster Loan program.
09.08.2017	U.S. Representative Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-GA-01), along with Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) and Representatives Drew Ferguson (R-GA-03), Austin Scott (R-GA-08) and Rick Allen (R-GA-12), today requested expedited emergency declaration approval for the State of Georgia. Yesterday, Governor Nathan Deal submitted a request for an emergency declaration for the State of Georgia ahead of Hurricane Irma beginning on September 7, 2017, and continuing. The Governor specifically requested debris removal and emergency protective measures, including direct federal assistance under the Public Assistance program for Appling, Atkinson, Bacon, Brantley, Bryan, Bulloch, Burke, Camden, Candler, Charlton, Chatham, Clinch, Coffee, Echols, Effingham, Emanuel, Evans, Glynn, Jenkins, Jeff Davis, Liberty, Long, McIntosh, Pierce, Screven, Tattnall, Toombs, Treutlen, Wayne, and Ware Counties. Today, Carter, Isakson, Perdue, Ferguson, Scott, and Allen asked President Donald J. Trump to expedite approval of the emergency declaration. In a letter to President Trump, the delegation wrote, "Hurricane Matthew, in October 2016, brought devastating destruction and hurricane conditions not seen in Georgia for decades, with storm surge of up to 8 feet, winds exceeding 90 miles an hour, over 17 inches of rain over portions of the state, and, tragically, 4 Georgians lost their lives. Now, in 2017, Hurricane Irma has the potential to be even more devastating, endangering Georgians and creating an even stronger need to approve Governor Deal’s request for an emergency declaration. "With the expected destruction of Hurricane Irma and ongoing recovery efforts happening in Texas and other states, we believe this storm warrants expedited consideration for an emergency declaration. Hurricane Irma has already maintained a Category 5 size for 2 entire days and will remain at a high level during its impact on the eastern U.S. coastline. The storm has already caused widespread devastation in the Caribbean and is tracking towards Florida and the eastern seaboard. "In Georgia, we want to take all necessary measures to mitigate the potential destruction of Hurricane Irma and to aid in the recovery and rebuilding process. We cannot afford to have a repeat of Hurricane Matthew when families and businesses were forced to wait for assistance from the federal government." Click here to view the letter sent to President Trump.
09.05.2017	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (GA-01) released the following statement following the Trump administration's announcement to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program: "President Trump made the right move today by ending this unconstitutional and illegal amnesty program. President Obama should have never implemented this program which he himself said he did not have the authority to do. Now, President Trump has called on Congress to act. "We are a nation of laws and we must enforce our immigration laws. This is one way we uphold our greatest responsibility of providing for the common defense. It is in the best interest of the citizens of the United States and our homeland security that we ensure that all those wishing to come and stay in our nation not only contribute in a positive way to our American society, but also come here in the proper and legal way. Amnesty should never be the answer. As Congress moves forward with responsible immigration reform, I will work to ensure any actions are made in the best interest of American families, tax payers, and those seeking to come to America through proper, legal channels."
08.30.2017	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (GA-01) released the following statement in response to President Trump's speech on tax reform: "I have always said that I believe our antiquated and burdensome tax code is the greatest threat to economic opportunity in this country. I believe Americans need and deserve tax relief so strongly that I made sure my first act as a Member of Congress was to cosponsor the Fair Tax in an attempt to deliver relief and build a stronger economy. Today, President Trump reaffirmed he shares these concerns and is ready for action on pro-American tax reform. We stand united in this effort and together we will deliver a tax code that will empower all Americans to achieve the American dream."
08.22.2017	“President Trump’s unyielding commitment to securing our borders and protecting the American people is already yielding results,” Carter said. “In the first seven months of the year alone, the number of people arrested trying to enter the country illegal has been nearly halved. It’s clear the world knows America is serious about enforcing our laws. What’s more, the President’s commitment has also boosted the morale of our law enforcement agents along the border because they know he’s got their backs.” share: f t Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter today praised President Donald J. Trump’s focus on border security and says he’s already seeing results. The comments come as the President visits U.S. Border Patrol operations at Yuma, Arizona. “President Trump’s unyielding commitment to securing our borders and protecting the American people is already yielding results,” Carter said. “In the first seven months of the year alone, the number of people arrested trying to enter the country illegal has been nearly halved. It’s clear the world knows America is serious about enforcing our laws. What’s more, the President’s commitment has also boosted the morale of our law enforcement agents along the border because they know he’s got their backs.” Carter attributes recent action in Congress to the President’s insistence that the border be secured. “The President’s steadfast support for securing our borders is spurring Congress to action,” said Carter. “I’ve been proud to help deliver to his desk the biggest boost to border security in years with $1.5 billion in additional resources. In the House, we’ve also fully funded the President’s wall, passed Kate’s Law and the No Sanctuary for Criminals Act to further bolster our efforts.” Kate’s Law is named for Kate Steinle, a San Francisco woman who died in her father’s arms after being attacked by an illegal immigrant that had been repeatedly deported from the country. It would increase penalties for anyone trying to re-enter the country after being deported. The No Sanctuary for Criminals Act would bar state and local governments from receiving federal law enforcement assistance if they refuse to enforce the nation’s immigration laws. Now, Carter says, it’s time for the Senate to get on board. “Our House majority is delivering the President his key priorities,” he said. “Now it’s time to for the Senate to heed the voice of the American people and act.” ###
08.21.2017	Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (R-GA) commended President Donald J. Trump on his “clear-eyed and comprehensive” strategy for Afghanistan and the region following his address to the American people outlining a new approach. “In his remarks, President Trump outlined a clear-eyed and comprehensive approach to addressing the threats our country faces in Afghanistan and the region,” said Carter. “I commend the President for taking the time to conduct this thorough review, hear from diverse perspectives, and arrive at a clear and concise strategy. “I was especially heartened to hear a departure from telegraphing maneuvers in advance and basing our strategy on political timetables,” Carter continued. “Instead we will empower our troops and their commanders to confront the threat head on with the full support of their Commander in Chief. Congress and the American people should unite and commit to doing everything we can to make this strategy a success.” In his remarks, President Trump announced three strategic shifts in America’s approach to the region. First, shifting from a time-based approach to one based on conditions on the ground. Second, increasing pressure on regional partners such as Pakistan to do more to improve the situation. Finally, ensuring warfighters have the tools and ground rules necessary to achieve their mission. “We’ve got the 3rd Infantry Division headquarters leading America’s efforts at Bagram Airfield right now,” Carter said. “We’ve had troops and their families undergo deployment after deployment. We’ve got the legacy of heroes such as Matthew Freeman from Richmond Hill who paid the ultimate sacrifice and Winston Hencley from Rincon who survived injuries few others could. For us and for our area, this is personal.” In addition to Fort Stewart, home to the 3rd Infantry Division, Congressman Carter represents Hunter Army Airfield, Naval Submarine Base Kings Bay, and Moody Air Force Base in Congress. share: f t Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (R-GA) commended President Donald J. Trump on his “clear-eyed and comprehensive” strategy for Afghanistan and the region following his address to the American people outlining a new approach. “In his remarks, President Trump outlined a clear-eyed and comprehensive approach to addressing the threats our country faces in Afghanistan and the region,” said Carter. “I commend the President for taking the time to conduct this thorough review, hear from diverse perspectives, and arrive at a clear and concise strategy." “I was especially heartened to hear a departure from telegraphing maneuvers in advance and basing our strategy on political timetables,” Carter continued. “Instead we will empower our troops and their commanders to confront the threat head on with the full support of their Commander in Chief. Congress and the American people should unite and commit to doing everything we can to make this strategy a success.” In his remarks, President Trump announced three strategic shifts in America’s approach to the region. First, shifting from a time-based approach to one based on conditions on the ground. Second, increasing pressure on regional partners such as Pakistan to do more to improve the situation. Finally, ensuring warfighters have the tools and ground rules necessary to successfully achieve their mission. For Carter and his Coastal Georgia district, the fight in Afghanistan hits closer to home than most. “We’ve got the 3rd Infantry Division headquarters leading America’s efforts at Bagram Airfield right now,” Carter said. “We’ve had troops and their families undergo deployment after deployment. We’ve got the legacy of heroes such as Matthew Freeman from Richmond Hill who paid the ultimate sacrifice and Winston Hencley from Rincon who survived injuries few others could. For us and for our area, this is personal." In addition to Fort Stewart, home to the 3rd Infantry Division, Congressman Carter represents Hunter Army Airfield, Naval Submarine Base Kings Bay, and Moody Air Force Base in Congress.
07.28.2017	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (GA-01) released the following statement after the United States Senate failed to pass legislation to repeal and replace Obamacare: "I have been frustrated with Washington since the first afternoon I arrived here. Unfortunately, that frustration has hit a new high with the Senate's failure to act. The House came together to pass legislation that would make health care more accessible and affordable. Instead of accepting the offer from the House to come together, iron out our differences, and complete our critical work, some in the Senate decided to put up a road block. To say I'm feeling disappointed is an understatement. "Some may try to prevent us from resuscitating our failing health care system, but I'm never going to give up. While working in health care for more than thirty years, I saw miracles happen and that is what I'm fighting for. Patients in Georgia, and across the country, deserve better than Obamacare and we must deliver. Inaction or failure is not an option."
07.27.2017	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (GA-01) voted in support of the Make America Secure Appropriations Act today to fund national security and First District priorities for fiscal year 2018. This legislation includes critical funding for the First District of Georgia including $50.06 million for the construction of the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project and a combined $37.97 million for operations and maintenance of the Ports of Savannah and Brunswick. Additionally, the legislation includes $842.85 million for the continued procurement and $776.19 million for the continued research and development of the new class of submarines set to replace the existing Ohio-class SSBNs currently homeported at Naval Submarine Base Kings Bay and $109 million for A-10 Thunderbolt wing replacements. "I am proud to support this legislation today because it provides critical funding for the largest economic drivers in the First District," Carter said. "The Make America Secure Appropriations Act ensures construction continues on the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project and supports our ports in Brunswick and Savannah. The bill also provides funding to ensure there are no interruptions in future missions at Kings Bay and keeps the A-10 flying." The legislation also provides $1.6 billion for construction of a Southern border wall. "The number one responsibility of the federal government is to provide for the common defense," Carter said. "Unfortunately, the federal government has failed to fulfill this responsibility with a lack of border security. I have had the opportunity to see the dire situation at the Southwest border firsthand and I understand the threats coming through the border into our nation. This legislation provides the resources necessary to begin construction on a Southern border wall to protect Americans from the threats of illegal immigration." Carter has been a leader in securing funding for a Southern border wall. He recently sent a letter to House leadership requesting action on funding for a wall before August. The Make America Secure Appropriations Act was passed with Carter's support. The legislation provides $658.1 billion to the Department of Defense to rebuild our military and ensure our troops have the training and equipment needed, $88.8 billion for military construction and the Department of Veterans Affairs, $37.6 billion for energy and water development, and $1.6 billion for construction of the Southern border wall.
07.25.2017	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (GA-01) released following statement after the United States Senate voted to move forward with debate on legislation to repeal Obamacare: "While we're not across the finish line yet, the Senate's decision to move forward with the repeal of Obamacare today is a strong step in the right direction and a bit of hope for Americans trapped in this failed experiment. Now, I urge my colleagues in the Senate to work together just as we did in the House to finally end the Obamacare train wreck once and for all. Americans across the country deserve accessible, affordable, and patient-centered care. We must deliver the choice and control of health care back to patients, and I look forward to the Senate getting the job done."
07.20.2017	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (GA-01) introduced legislation today to allow states to conduct drug abuse risk assessments and drug testing of Unemployment Insurance applicants. "The Unemployment Insurance program is an important safety net program for Americans across the country," Carter said. "I introduced this legislation because it gives states the ability to ensure the resources of this program are going to those who truly need it while saving taxpayer dollars in the process. Unemployment Insurance recipients should be drug-free and ready to reenter the workforce and my legislation works to make that happen." Background: The Ensuring Quality in the Unemployment Insurance Program (EQUIP) Act introduced by Carter today codifies that states have the ability to require all individuals to take a substance abuse risk assessment before receiving unemployment benefits if the state chooses. The assessment will use a screening instrument approved by the National Institutes of Health that is designed to determine if an individual is at high risk for substance abuse. Those determined to be at high risk for drug abuse will submit to a drug screening before receiving unemployment benefits. If testing is positive, then the burden shifts to the applicant to make sure they meet certain requirements before receiving unemployment insurance benefits. The first positive test would result in no regular unemployment insurance benefit for a 30 day period. A second positive test would result in no unemployment insurance benefit for the remainder of the benefit year.
07.18.2017	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (GA-01), a member of the Health Subcommittee on the House Energy and Commerce Committee, released the following statement today calling for a vote on the repeal of Obamacare: "The games have gone on for too long. While I am proud of the legislation we passed in the House to repeal and replace Obamacare, it’s clear it does not have the necessary votes in the Senate. We cannot afford to let Washington gridlock derail our efforts and fail the American people. “Today, I am calling for a vote on a blanket repeal of Obamacare. Majorities in the House and Senate have supported this measure in the past and it's time to do it again with a president who supports our efforts. Then we can come together on reforms to health care to lower costs and restore choice and control to patients.”
07.14.2017	The United States House of Representatives advanced a program vital to the future of Naval Submarine Base Kings Bay today by authorizing continued construction on the next generation of submarines. Construction of additional components has been authorized in the Fiscal Year 2018 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for a new class of 12 ballistic missile submarines (SSBNs) which will one day replace the existing Ohio-class SSBNs such as those currently homeported at the base. Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (Ga-01), who represents Kings Bay and Camden County in Congress, has been a leader in the fight for the replacement program. "This legislation ensures construction on the Ohio-class replacement continues to prevent any interruption in future missions at Kings Bay." Carter said. "The submarines at Kings Bay play a critical role in our nuclear deterrence as the United States continues to face uncertain threats from around the globe. Kings Bay is the elite home to the Atlantic ballistic submarine fleet and I will continue to fight to do everything in my power to make sure this continues." The Fiscal Year 2018 National Defense Authorization Act passed the House today with Carter's support. The NDAA is the primary way Congress meets its most important constitutional obligations to "provide for the common defense." The legislation sets defense policy for the year and offers a $631.5 billion defense spending blueprint. The legislation increases troop pay and benefits, supports missions to defeat ISIS, and restores the readiness of our military.
07.14.2017	The United States House of Representatives passed legislation today to keep the A-10 Thunderbolt flying with $103 million for A-10 wing upgrades. Additionally, the Fiscal Year 2018 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) continues the prohibition on retiring the A-10. Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (GA-01), who represents Moody Air Force Base in Congress, has been a leader in the fight to protect the A-10. "This is a big win in the fight to ensure the A-10 keeps flying to provide our troops with the vital close air support they need," Carter said. "Not only does this legislation prevent a premature retirement of the A-10, it also provides important funding for upgrades. The A-10 is battle tested in the fight against ISIS and is critical to protecting our troops on the ground. The legislation passed today ensures the Warthog is able to protect our troops on the ground with critical wing upgrades." The Fiscal Year 2018 National Defense Authorization Act passed the House today with Carter's support. The NDAA is the primary way Congress meets its most important constitutional obligations to "provide for the common defense." The legislation sets defense policy for the year and offers a $631.5 billion defense spending blueprint. The legislation increases troop pay and benefits, supports missions to defeat ISIS, and restores the readiness of our military.
07.07.2017	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (GA-01) has introduced legislation to align the federal government's acquisition practices with those of the private sector while delivering taxpayer savings in the process. Currently, 99% of heavy equipment used by the federal government is purchased due to Federal Acquisition Regulations predominately only allowing leasing or purchasing of heavy equipment. The Government Accountability Office (GAO) found that federal agencies many times did not even perform a lease versus purchase analysis when making acquisition decisions leading to purchasing for nearly all decisions. Carter's legislation works to implement common sense reforms to encourage renting when possible to provide the government significant cost savings. "Private sector businesses, as well as state and local governments, are turning to rentals instead of purchases or leases of heavy equipment across the country," said Carter. "This has led to significant cost savings and the federal government should do the same for taxpayers. I am proud to introduce this legislation because it's past time for the federal government to get in line with the cost savings measures of businesses and state governments throughout the nation. I urge my colleagues to join me in this common sense mission to save taxpayer dollars through rentals." Background: The private sector continues to increase the use of rentals when procuring heavy equipment to decrease costs. It has been estimated that private sector companies rent nearly 60% of heavy equipment. In comparison, the federal government purchases 99% of heavy equipment. Additionally, state and local governments have used rentals to save taxpayer dollars. The Texas Department of Transportation estimates that its rental program has resulted in a positive financial impact of $10.8 million as of fiscal year 2016. Carter's legislation, the Federal Acquisition Savings Act, requires the heads of executive agencies to consider equipment rental in any cost-effective analysis opposed to leasing or purchasing.
06.30.2017	A leader in the fight to ensure dangerous illegal aliens are not re-released into our communities, Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (GA-01) applauded House passage today of two critical bills to crack down on sanctuary policies. The No Sanctuary for Criminals Act provides important tools to protect American citizens from rogue sanctuary cities, including clarifying detainer authority. Carter has worked diligently with the Judiciary Committee to incorporate his reforms to eliminate the bias towards substance abuse offenses to ensure DHS is responding to all local inquiries about suspected illegal aliens in local custody. With these reforms, this legislation ensures local officials who want to enforce our nation's immigration laws are able to and will get a response from ICE while also ensuring sanctuary cities cooperate with federal enforcement of immigration laws. Additionally, the legislation withholds federal grants from jurisdictions that violate federal law by prohibiting their officers from communicating with ICE. "A violent criminal in our country illegally should not be released back into society," said Carter. "I have fought to ensure this doesn't happen for the safety of communities at home in Georgia and across the country. We've already seen tragedy strike too many families at the hands of criminal illegal aliens who should have never been released in the first place and it cannot be allowed to continue. If cities don't want to join this fight and stand in the way of this important safety mission, they absolutely should not be rewarded with the support of federal grants." Additionally, the House passed Kate's Law today with Carter's support. This legislation enhances penalties for deported felons who return to the United States. "It is not acceptable to sit idly by while criminals who have been deported five times or more come back to our country and assault or murder our citizens," said Carter. "I am pleased both pieces of legislation were passed today because we need to continue to crack down on sanctuary cities who harbor these criminals and ensure penalties are in place to keep deported criminals out."
06.21.2017	Representative Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (Ga-01), along with Representatives Sanford Bishop (Ga-02), Drew Ferguson (Ga-03), Hank Johnson (Ga-04), John Lewis (Ga-05), Rob Woodall (Ga-07), Austin Scott (Ga-08), Doug Collins (Ga-09), Jody Hice (Ga-10), Barry Loudermilk (Ga-11), Rick Allen (Ga-12), David Scott (Ga-13), and Tom Graves (Ga-14), today urged the House Appropriations Committee to prioritize funding for the construction of the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project, known as SHEP. In a letter to Chairman Mike Simpson and Ranking Member Marcy Kaptur of the House Appropriations Committee Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies, the Georgia congressional delegation recommended that the committee allocate the funding needed to keep the project on time and on budget. The president requested $50.06 million for SHEP in his fiscal year 2018 budget request. However, according to the Army Corps of Engineers, without annual funding of $80 to $100 million a year the project cannot be completed on time and the resulting delays will cost taxpayers hundreds of millions of dollars. "If the rate of SHEP’s construction were to continue at the rate reflected in the FY 2018 request, the completion of SHEP would be delayed by at least five years. A partially completed channel deepening project provides zero benefits to the nation, and the USACE estimates that a five year delay would by itself add well over $100 million to the project construction cost. Combined with the multi-year loss of the $282 million in annual economic benefits that the completed project will provide, the total cost of under-funding SHEP is a staggering and unrecoverable loss of more than $1 billion," the delegation wrote. "For that reason, we recommend that in addition to supporting the SHEP budget request of $50.06 million, the Subcommittee include within those funds available under the Subcommittee’s Additional Funding account no less than $100 million designated specifically for construction of deep-draft navigation projects nationwide. As we discuss the bipartisan efforts to overhaul and expand our nation’s transportation networks, deep-draft navigation projects will continue to be a leading opportunity to see significant economic growth." Click here to view the full letter.
06.13.2017	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (GA-01) today applauded House passage of legislation to allow for the removal of Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) employees for poor performance or misconduct. "America’s veterans put everything on the line to protect our freedom and they deserve the best possible care when returning home," said Carter. "However, the VA is not providing the care our veterans deserve. A serious contributing factor to this problem is the inability to hold VA employees accountable for their actions. While there are many hardworking employees at the VA, bad actors should be removed if they are not delivering for our veterans. It is unacceptable to allow this culture to continue at the VA, and this legislation takes important steps to ensure the dedicated employees at the VA are able to do their important work while getting those with other intentions out of the way." The Department of Veterans Affairs Accountability and Whistleblower Protections Act was passed in the House today with Carter's support and now heads to President Trump's desk to be signed into law. Specifically, the legislation: Creates a new streamlined process to remove, demote, or suspend any VA employee for poor performance or misconduct while protecting due process rights; Expands protections for whistleblowers; Provides the Secretary with the authority to reduce an employee's federal pension if they are convicted of a felony that influenced their job at the VA and recoup a bonus provided to an employee who engaged in misconduct prior to receiving the bonus.
05.24.2017	Today, Representatives Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-Georgia) and Chris Stewart (R-Utah) led a bipartisan group of 65 Members of Congress urging the Federal Drug Administration (FDA) to rescind their decision that restricts state-licensed pharmacies from compounding prescription drugs for health care providers to use in their offices. Drug compounding is used to prepare personalized prescriptions for patients or for physicians to use for procedures in their offices. Compounding pharmacists can combine certain ingredients or medications in the exact strength and dosage to customize a prescription to meet specific needs. Ignoring a specific Congressional directive, the FDA issued final Guidance on December 29, 2016, that prohibits office-use compounding by smaller traditional compounding pharmacies, known as 503A compounding pharmacies. “The policies finalized in this GFI are contrary to the plain language of Section 503A as amended by the Drug Quality and Security Act (DQSA) and ignore clear, bipartisan, bicameral congressional intent expressed during passage of the bill,” the letter states. “The FDA has unfortunately chosen to ignore broad and diverse stakeholder input, multiple congressional letters from both chambers, and clear directives in the House Report accompanying the FY2016 FDA appropriations legislation (House Report 114-205). More importantly, the FDA’s misinterpretation of the law and related enforcement actions against pharmacies are jeopardizing patients’ access to critical compounded medications. “ The letter is signed by 65 Members of the U.S. House of Representatives Including: Representatives Buddy Carter, Chris Stewart, Mac Thornberry, Rob Bishop, Paul Gosar, Phil Roe, Pete Olson, Pete Sessions, Mia Love, Marsha Blackburn, Morgan Griffith, Doug Collins, Frank LoBiondo, Cathy McMorris Rodgers, Mark Pocan, Lou Barletta, John Carter, Kevin Cramer, Collin Peterson, Walter Jones, Ted Poe, Dutch Ruppersberger, Barbara Comstock, Rick Crawford, Jason Chaffetz, Don Young, Gus Bilirakis, Drew Ferguson, Rod Blum, Jaime Herrera Beutler, Billy Long, David Young, French Hill, Bill Flores, Henry Cuellar, Bob Goodlatte, Leonard Lance, Mike Gallagher, Darren Soto, Mimi Walters, Mario Diaz-Balart, Rodney Frelinghuysen, Andy Biggs, Louie Gohmert, Ted Yoho, Mark Walker, Dan Donovan, Rick Allen, Carlos Curbelo, Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, David Joyce, Robert Pittenger, John Culberson, Peter DeFazio, Andy Barr, Vicente Gonzalez, David Rouzer, Mo Brooks, Roger Marshall, John Rutherford, Martha McSally, Austin Scott, Randy Weber, Martha Roby and Barry Loudermilk To view the full text of the letter, click here.
05.23.2017	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (GA-01) released the following statement today on the release of the president's fiscal year 2018 budget request: "It is encouraging to finally have a president that realizes it's past time to cut up the credits cards. This budget proposal creates a framework for a necessary and long overdue discussion about reining in Washington's spending addiction. Our current fiscal trajectory is simply not sustainable and something needs to be done. "At the same time, it's important to remember that this is just the starting point for budget discussions. As we work to create a fiscally sound budget to grow our economy, it's my job to ensure the First District is supported and I take that job very seriously. I will fight for our ports, the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project, the Coast Guard, our military installations, the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, and other critical projects as discussions continue."
05.17.2017	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (GA-01) today announced that the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) has designated Georgia counties as primary natural disaster areas due to the current drought. This designation makes farm operators in primary counties and those counties contiguous to such primary counties eligible to be considered for assistance from the Farm Service Agency (FSA), including FSA emergency loans. Counties included under this designation include Berrien, Brantley, Camden, Charlton, Clinch, Echols, Lowndes, Pierce, Ware, and Wayne. Additional counties have been named as contiguous disaster counties including Bacon, Glynn, Long, and McIntosh. "This is absolutely welcome news to assist with this severe drought," said Carter. "Our farmers and agricultural community provide an indispensable service to our local community, as well as the entire nation, and I believe this will help to ensure they are able to continue this important work while dealing with this extreme situation. I am pleased this assistance is available and we are available and ready to assist with the process to ensure these resources are used in the best way possible." According to the USDA, farmers in eligible counties have 8 months from the date of the declaration to apply for emergency loans. FSA will consider each emergency loan application on its own merits, taking into account the extent of production losses on the farm, and the security and repayment ability of the operator. For more information, click here or contact your local FSA office. For assistance, call Carter's office at 912-265-9010.
05.04.2017	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (GA-01) released the following statement after the American Health Care Act (AHCA) was approved by the United States House of Representatives today: "I am thrilled the American Health Care Act was approved today. For the last seven years, I have watched the health care system that I worked in for more than thirty years crumble under its own weight. Thanks to Obamacare, premiums and health care costs have skyrocketed, choice has been eliminated, and the dire situation is only getting worse. At home in Georgia, 96 counties only have one insurer to choose from on the exchange. That isn't a choice at all. With passage of the AHCA today, we are another step closer to delivering relief and a patient-centered health care system with the choice and control needed to empower patients. "This bill guts Obamacare and I urge my colleagues in the Senate to act swiftly to let families and patients across America know that help is on the way. The AHCA will ensure patients are no longer forced to live under Washington's one-size-fits-all health care mandates and taxes and it should be signed into law as soon as possible. "I look forward to continuing our work to resuscitate our health care system. As I have always said, the AHCA is a strong first step, but I'm committed it's not the last. The House has already passed additional legislation to lower health insurance costs and take the first step toward allowing the purchase of insurance across state lines and more action is coming. Today is a big win in the fight to repeal and replace Obamacare and it won't be the last." The AHCA: Dismantles Obamacare taxes; Eliminates the individual and employer mandate penalties; Allows dependents to continue on their parents’ plan until they are 26; Guarantees coverage to Americans with pre-existing conditions; Strengthens Medicaid with the largest entitlement reform in a generation; Enhances and expands Health Savings Accounts (HSAs) by nearly doubling the amount of money people can contribute and broadening how people can use it; Provides a monthly tax credit for low- and middle-income individuals and families who don’t receive insurance through work or a government program. Americans can use this tax credit to purchase private, quality coverage of their choice.
05.03.2017	A bipartisan majority in the House advanced a federal funding measure that boosts key priorities for national security and the State of Georgia. Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (GA-01), who voted in support of the measure, praised its passage and the positive impact it will have. "The primary responsibility of the federal government is to provide for the safety and security of the American people,” said Carter. "This legislation contains the biggest increase in border security funding in a decade and begins to rebuild our national defense infrastructure. Most importantly, it broke the long-held demand of Washington Democrats for level increases between defense and non-defense programs.” Overall the spending package contains an additional $25 billion for national security over last year’s spending level. That includes $76.8 billion for troops deployed in the fight against ISIS and $123.3 billion to rebuild military bases and restore readiness that faltered under the Obama Administration. Additionally, the bill provides $12.2 billion in law enforcement infrastructure to secure the nation’s border. Carter also highlighted the importance of the bill for local military installations, troops, and a key homeland security facility. “The world class defense facilities in South and Coastal Georgia are not only critical for our national security but for the long term economic vitality of our area,” said Carter. “This bill provides the largest pay increase in six years for our troops. It keeps the A-10s flying at Moody, continues the conversion of the 2nd Infantry Combat Brigade Team at Fort Stewart, and continues programs we need for the future of Kings Bay and Hunter Army Airfield. It also invests in the future of the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center and funds much-needed repairs at Coast Guard facilities still recovering from Hurricane Matthew.” Georgia’s deepwater ports in Savannah and Brunswick also garnered much-needed federal support in the legislation. The Savannah Harbor Expansion Project is set to receive an additional $42.7 million to continue construction. The Ports of Savannah and Brunswick will receive a combined $28 million for ongoing maintenance. “Our ports are the economic engines of not just our area and not just our state but of the entire region,” Carter said. “This bill keeps them chugging along and continues work on Georgia’s number one economic development initiative: the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project.”
04.26.2017	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (GA-01) released the following statement after the Trump Administration's introduction of a tax reform proposal: "I have long said that America’s antiquated and overly burdensome tax code is the greatest threat to economic opportunity in this country. I am relieved that we finally have a president that agrees. The bold proposal introduced by the Trump Administration today is an outline that will work towards a simpler and fairer tax system to deliver relief and empower all Americans to achieve the American dream. I look forward to working with the administration and my colleagues in Congress to create a tax system that will grow our economy, deliver relief to Americans, and create jobs."
04.07.2017	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" (GA-01) released the following statement on Syria: "Last night President Trump and the United States of America made clear that our resolve will not be tested and the Assad regime's slaughter of innocent people, including women and children, will no longer be tolerated. I strongly support the tactical strikes as passiveness in Syria has only worked to exacerbate the situation. While military action should never be taken lightly, the barbaric regime must be held accountable and be made aware that we are watching and will react accordingly."
04.07.2017	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (GA-01) released the following statement after the United States Senate approved the nomination of Neil Gorsuch to the Supreme Court: "I applaud the efforts of my colleagues in the Senate to confirm Judge Gorsuch today. When America lost Justice Antonin Scalia, our nation's top court lost a fair judge and an ardent defender of the Constitution. Throughout Judge Gorsuch's career and confirmation process, he has proven that he shares these convictions and will carry on these standards in the Supreme Court. I trust Judge Gorsuch will make thoughtful and Constitutional decisions on issues that will have an impact on all Americans and I am glad he will complete the Supreme Court again."
03.24.2017	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (GA-01) released the following statement about the American Health Care Act today: "I have been a strong supporter of the American Health Care Act because Americans cannot continue living with the Obamacare train wreck. Since it was signed into law, I have watched Obamacare crush the health care system that I worked in for more than thirty years. Thanks to this failed experiment, premiums and health care costs have skyrocketed, choice has been eliminated, and the dire situation is only getting worse. It is not acceptable to sit idly by and not take action. "While I was hoping for the success of the AHCA today, the fight continues. We are on a rescue mission to resuscitate our health care system and I will not stop fighting until this mission is completed. I will keep working until patients are no longer forced to live under Washington's one-size-fits-all health care mandates and taxes. I want to thank Speaker Paul Ryan for his strong leadership on this bill and issue. Now, we move forward."
03.17.2017	During the 105th birthday celebration of the Girl Scouts of the United States of America and the 100th anniversary of the Girl Scout cookie program, Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (GA-01) introduced a resolution today celebrating these milestones and the opportunities the program provides for girls and women across the nation. "Since the founding of the Girl Scouts in Savannah, Georgia, on March 12, 1912, the program has been a special part of the lives of more than 60 million women and girls across the nation," said Carter. "Alumnae of the program have blazed trails for women and have created a better world for all of us thanks to the program's environment which supports members to pursue their dreams. It is an honor to represent the birthplace of this incredible program and I am proud to introduce this resolution today to celebrate the Girl Scouts." “We are thrilled that Congress is recognizing Girl Scouts’ 105th birthday and joining us in our movement-wide celebration," said Girl Scouts of the USA Interim CEO Sylvia Acevedo. "In 1912, Savannah-native Juliette Gordon Low founded the first Girl Scout troop with just 18 girls. Over 100 years later, more than 59 million women are Girl Scout alumnae, and the program currently serves nearly 2 million girls. Girl Scouts helps girls develop into the future leaders of our economy, our communities, our country, and the world by encouraging them to dream big and work hard to achieve their goals. We are so grateful to count Congressman Carter as one of our champions in Congress who will partner with us to ensure that the 26 million girls in the U.S. realize their full potential.” Click here to view the full text of the resolution. Carter represents the First District of Georgia, which is home to Savannah, Georgia, and the birthplace of the Girl Scouts of the United States of America.
03.17.2017	Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (GA-01) introduced the Dentists and Optometric Care Access (DOC Access) Act today to provide fairness in contracts between doctors and dental and vision insurers to increase the quality of care for patients and eliminate anti-competitive practices. Current mandates in insurance provider agreements require doctors to charge patients unpredictable and unusual rates for services that are not covered under their vision or dental plans. The practice is especially troublesome in communities where a limited number of insurance plans control the market share and a provider has no choice but to accept an entire contract even if some terms harm their patients’ care and practice. The DOC Access Act allows dentists and optometrists to charge a fair and customary amount for the services that are not covered under an insurance plan rather than the insurer’s mandated fee schedule. “The DOC Access Act is critical to ensure doctors are able to meet patient needs,” said Carter. “By prohibiting insurance providers from forcing doctors to participate in restrictive insurance plans or networks, doctors will be able to charge reasonable fees for the care Americans need. This legislation is a strong and necessary step in bringing free market principles back into health care by removing anti-competitive business practices.” Thirty-nine states – including Georgia – have enacted similar legislation addressing the coverage and fees for non-covered services. However, many insurance providers are able to sidestep these laws because the offered plans are regulated on the federal level instead of on the state level. “This is really great news,” said Gary Roberts, D.D.S., president of the American Dental Association. “I want to personally thank Congressman Carter for introducing this bill. Dental insurance companies must be prohibited from interfering in the doctor-patient relationship by dictating prices for services they don’t even cover. While many states have passed similar laws, the Carter legislation would ensure the prohibition applies to plans regulated at the federal level.” "The American Optometric Association is proud to join Representative Carter and Loebsack in supporting the DOC Access Act, legislation that will ensure that doctors and patients take back control of important, personal and personalized health care decisions from insurance and plan executives,” said AOA President Andrea P. Thau, O.D. “Reps. Carter and Loebsack have been unfaltering advocates for all-important patient access to the critical eye heath and vision care doctors of optometry provide and the DOC Access Act is an important step in preserving that access and holding insurers and plans accountable." The only pharmacist in Congress, Carter owned and operated community pharmacies for more than thirty years. Carter is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
03.16.2017	Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (GA-01) released the following statement on President Trump’s budget blueprint: “The number one responsibility of the federal government is to provide for the common defense. As the proud representative of four military installations in the First District of Georgia, it is encouraging to see that we finally have a president that sets our national security and our military as a priority. “The blueprint introduced today is a good starting point. Now, I’m ready to work with my colleagues in Congress and the Trump administration to create a fiscally sound budget to grow our economy and create a better future for our children and grandchildren. It’s past time to cut up the credit cards to rein in Washington’s spending addiction, and I believe we can work together to achieve this."
03.13.2017	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (GA-01) released the following statement after the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) released their score of the American Health Care Act (AHCA): “One of the many reasons Obamacare failed is that it focused on forcing Americans into coverage they did not want and could not afford. Our plan instead is designed to empower Americans to access quality, affordable, and patient-centered health care and the CBO report released today confirms it will deliver this relief to Americans across the country. "It is important to remember the report released scores just one piece of our plan to repeal and replace Obamacare. I have said from the beginning AHCA is just the first of many steps to rescue our health care system. There will be administrative relief as well as additional legislation to complete our plan. The CBO report released today absolutely does not capture the whole picture about what is actually going to happen to our health care system and it should not be treated that way." Carter is a member of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce. Carter joined the Committee last week to advance part of the AHCA under its jurisdiction.
03.09.2017	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (GA-01), a member of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, released the following statement today after legislation to repeal and replace Obamacare was approved by the Committee: “Approval of this legislation in the Committee today is a big win in the fight to repeal Obamacare and replace it with a patient-centered health care system with the choice and control needed to empower patients. The health care system I worked in for more than thirty years is being crushed under the weight of Obamacare. We cannot sit and watch the greatest health care system in the world crumble before our eyes because of a bad law and one-size-fits-all Washington mandates. I refuse to let that happen and that is why I voted in support of this legislation today. It will finally provide relief from Obamacare while paving the way for a health care system that is accessible and affordable. "While this is a strong first step, I'm committed it's not the last. We still have a long way to go and we will continue this work until all Americans are able to access the health care they need and deserve." Click here for a section-by-section of the Energy and Commerce legislation.
03.02.2017	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (GA-01) introduced legislation today to strengthen immigration enforcement by targeting criminal illegal aliens in law enforcement custody. The Assuring Law Enforcement Requests are Timely Evaluated by DHS (ALERTED) Act requires U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) to promptly respond to local law enforcement official's inquiry about suspected illegal aliens in their custody for a violation of any law. Current law only guarantees a response from ICE when the suspected illegal alien is arrested for controlled substances. "It’s unbelievable a law like this even needs to be introduced,” said Carter. “Right now, a violent criminal in our country illegally could be released back into society simply because the federal government did not respond to local law enforcement. For the safety of our communities, we cannot allow this to continue. "This legislation is critical to ensure jurisdictions that want to enforce our immigration laws are able to by clarifying their authority to contact ICE about a suspected illegal alien in their custody. This legislation also holds ICE accountable if they choose not to issue a detainer for a criminal alien after a law enforcement agency has brought an arrestee to their attention." The Center for Immigration Studies found that during an 8 month period from January 1 to August 31, 2014, more than 8,000 criminal aliens were released back into communities by sanctuary cities. The majority of the aliens released had prior offenses, and a quarter of them had prior felonies. Most alarming of all, 1,900 of these released criminal aliens went on to be arrested more than 4,000 times. Specifically, the ALERTED Act: ensures that federal, state, and local law enforcement officers receive a prompt reply from ICE to their inquiries for suspected aliens in their custody; guarantees a response to detainer inquiries for suspected illegal aliens arrested for any local, state, or federal offense; helps jurisdictions that want to enforce current immigration laws by clarifying their authority to contact ICE about a suspected illegal alien in their custody; increases interagency communication at all levels; and holds ICE accountable if they choose not to issue a detainer for a criminal alien after a law enforcement agency has brought an arrestee to their attention.
02.28.2017	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (GA-01) released the following statement in response to President Donald J. Trump's Joint Address to Congress: "It is refreshing and exciting that President Trump's speech tonight was a call to unite the country around a strategy for a stronger, brighter future for our nation. For too long, Americans heard out of touch partisan politics and false promises resulting in no concrete solutions to the issues facing our nation. Since he was sworn in, President Trump has wasted no time proving he instead will lead with action and deliver on his promises to all Americans. "In the House, we will continue our mission with the new administration to deliver results. Together, we will push forward our bold agenda to make America safer, support job creation, cut the bureaucratic red tape, and facilitate a free market health care system that works for all patients. We will continue our fight for a greater America and I am thrilled to have a president and administration that is ready to join us."
02.10.2017	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (GA-01) released the following statement after Dr. Tom Price was confirmed as the United States Secretary of Health and Human Services: "Congratulations to my friend and fellow Georgian. As a lifelong physician and dedicated public servant with a deep understanding of the budgetary process, Tom Price is the partner Congress needs at the helm of America's health department. Not only is Dr. Price immeasurably qualified, he has a plan to resuscitate our broken health care system in his back pocket. I am excited and ready to continue our work together in this new role to return choice and control of health care back to patients."
02.06.2017	The United States House of Representatives unanimously passed Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter's (GA-01) legislation today to expand and protect Fort Frederica National Monument located on St. Simons Island, Ga. "Fort Frederica is a historic treasure and my legislation passed in the House today is critical to ensure the fort's rich history is preserved," Carter said. "I am pleased the legislation was approved by the House and I hope the Senate will act swiftly to preserve and protect Fort Frederica's legacy." H.R. 494, the Fort Frederica National Monument Boundary Expansion Act, would increase the maximum number of acres that may be included in the monument, located on St. Simons Island, Ga., from 250 acres to 305 acres. Due to current statutory limits, legislation is required to expand the authorized boundary and remove the 250-acre ceiling established by Congress in 1958. H.R. 494 would also allow the National Park Service to acquire, by donation or purchase, the land and interests within the monument only from those willing to sell additional land for inclusion. The areas being assessed by the National Park Service for inclusion in the Fort Frederica National Monument are within the direct viewshed of the park, including the fort, King’s magazine, tabby ruins of soldiers’ barracks and other trails. The areas were once used by the British Town of Frederica founded in 1736 by General James Edward Oglethorpe. Based on archival data and a reconnaissance study, there is a high potential that the remains of a colonial cannon battery, Point Battery, exists within the southern area. The northern area is believed to have been used as a campground for troops in 1743.
01.31.2017	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (GA-01) released the following statement after President Donald J. Trump nominated Neil Gorsuch to the Supreme Court: "Justice Antonin Scalia was a fair judge and an ardent defender of the Constitution. His time on the bench was what our Founding Fathers envisioned. President Trump promised to nominate a judge to the Supreme Court who shares these convictions and I applaud his nomination of Neil Gorsuch tonight. I urge my colleagues in the Senate to act swiftly on their important work to confirm Judge Gorsuch and complete the Supreme Court again."
01.24.2017	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (GA-01) released the following statement today after the United States House of Representatives passed H.R. 7 with Carter's support to permanently ban all federal funding for abortions: "As a lifelong health care provider, father, grandfather and Congressman, I believe life starts at conception and that American taxpayers should never be responsible to foot the bill for abortions. Unfortunately, even with measures including the Hyde amendment in place to protect against taxpayer dollars being used to fund abortion coverage, families across America who share my convictions still end up paying for abortion services, possibly without their knowledge. That is why H.R. 7 is so important. This legislation ensures the ban on federal funding for abortion is permanent and government wide and I am proud to support it."
01.23.2017	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (GA-01) released the following statement supporting President Donald J. Trump's decision to restore the Mexico City Policy which prohibits taxpayer funds to non-governmental organizations in foreign countries that provide or promote abortions: "President Trump has wasted no time joining us in the fight to ensure American taxpayers are never responsible to foot the bill for ending a precious life before it begins. While it's unacceptable to use taxpayer funds for abortions in the United States, it is absolutely senseless to allow taxpayer dollars to be used on abortions abroad. "The president's action to reinstate the Mexico City Policy today is a strong step to support the right to life and I look forward to working with him to stand up for those who cannot stand up for themselves."
01.19.2017	The U.S. House members of the Georgia Congressional Delegation today applauded President-elect Donald J. Trump’s nomination of former Georgia Governor George Ervin “Sonny” Perdue III to serve as Secretary of the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The following delegation members issued statements on President-elect Trump’s choice of Sonny Perdue for Secretary of Agriculture: U.S. Rep. Buddy Carter (GA-01): “Former Governor Sonny Perdue is the perfect choice to lead the Department of Agriculture. As the top industry in our state, Georgians know how important agriculture is. As a two-term Governor of Georgia, Sonny has already proven himself to be a strong leader who will fight to ensure the agriculture industry is able to accomplish their important work. The hard work of our farmers, ranchers, and producers is critical to the production of the safest, most abundant and most affordable food supply in the world and I look forward to working with former Governor Perdue to ensure Washington doesn’t stand in their way.” U.S. Rep. Drew Ferguson (GA-03): “Sonny is an excellent choice to be the next Secretary of Agriculture. His experience as a veterinarian combined with his executive experience as a two-term governor make him uniquely qualified to lead the USDA. I have personally had the honor of working alongside Governor Perdue to create thousands of new jobs in Georgia. Sonny has always been committed to making sure businesses, and especially agriculture in Georgia, are successful. I look forward to working with him as the Secretary of Agriculture.” U.S. Rep. Rob Woodall (GA-07): “Georgians are well aware of Governor Perdue’s heart for service, and I have no doubt he will bring that same spirit and commitment to this new role. Having served as Governor of Georgia, whose number one industry is agriculture, his knowledge and experience in both the public and private sectors make him an excellent choice to lead the Department of Agriculture. It makes me very proud to see the role Georgia will be playing in moving America forward, and I look forward to partnering with him.” U.S. Rep. Austin Scott (GA-08), Member of the House Committee on Agriculture and Chairman of the Agriculture Subcommittee on Commodity Exchanges, Energy, and Credit: “America’s will have a great Secretary of Agriculture in Sonny Perdue, and I am confident Sonny will be an excellent representative of our state in his service to our country’s agriculture communities. Agriculture is Georgia’s leading industry, so we’re glad to have someone who understands our state’s agricultural needs and act as a champion for the needs of our farmers, ranchers, and manufacturers in the U.S. Department of Agriculture.” U.S. Rep. Doug Collins (GA-09): “Sonny Perdue is an outstanding choice for Secretary of Agriculture. The experience he brings to that role will a boon to agricultural communities from coast to coast, including the poultry industry, which is a key part of Georgia’s livelihood.” U.S. Rep. Jody Hice (GA-10): “Given his executive experience as a two-term Governor and his background as an agribusiness owner, Sonny Perdue is an outstanding choice to lead the Department of Agriculture. During his tenure as Governor, he shaped an agricultural policy that helped usher in a new era of economic growth. Agriculture remains the top industry in Georgia, and I look forward to working with Sonny as Secretary of Agriculture to continue supporting our farming communities.” U.S. Rep. Barry Loudermilk (GA-11): “It’s great to see my friend, former Governor Sonny Perdue, selected to serve as our next Agriculture Secretary. His proven conservative leadership on Georgia’s agricultural interests teamed with his business background makes him an excellent choice to lead this department.” U.S. Rep. Rick Allen (GA-12), Member of the House Committee on Agriculture: “From the farm he grew up on in Perry, Georgia to his service in the U.S. Air Force, veterinary and agribusiness career, and later Governor of Georgia, Sonny Perdue makes an excellent and obvious choice for the next Secretary of Agriculture. Hailing from a state like Georgia, where agriculture is our number one industry, I am confident in Sonny’s ability to represent the interests of all American agriculture. As a member of the House Agriculture Committee, I look forward to his leadership and working with him to advance the needs of our farmers and the industry as a whole.” U.S. Rep. Tom Graves (GA-14): “Governor Perdue is the perfect choice to lead the Agriculture Department. Between his work as a veterinarian and agribusiness owner to his eight years as governor, he’s walked the fields of Georgia to the halls of the executive office. He has the right combination of experience, and I have no doubt that Sonny will serve the American people well.”
01.17.2017	The United States Senate passed Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter's (GA-01) legislation today to provide transparency and accountability in the federal government. Carter's legislation ensures the Government Accountability Office (GAO), the congressional watchdog, is able to obtain the records it needs to audit, evaluate, and investigate federal agencies. Additionally, if an agency does not cooperate with GAO, H.R. 72 allows GAO to use civil actions to require an agency to produce the necessary documents or records. "Passage of this bill today in the Senate is a huge win in the fight to protect taxpayer dollars and ensure the federal government is transparent and accountable," said Carter. "GAO is one of the most important tools used in this fight and my legislation ensures federal agencies cooperate with GAO so they are able to access what is necessary to conduct their investigations. I encourage the president to sign this critical legislation into law as soon as possible." Carter's legislation passed in the United States House of Representatives earlier this month. With Senate passage today, H.R. 72 now heads to the President to be signed into law.
01.13.2017	U.S. Senator Johnny Isakson, R-Ga., and U.S. Representative Earl L. "Buddy" Carter, R-Ga.-01, introduced legislation in both the U.S. Senate and the U.S. House of Representatives to expand and protect Fort Frederica National Monument located on St. Simons Island, Ga. “Preserving the rich history and archaeological heritage of one of Georgia’s oldest landmarks will give visitors a chance to experience firsthand an area of the state founded by General James Oglethorpe,” said Isakson. “The legislation will also help provide an economic boost for Georgia’s tourism industry. I am proud to join the long list of federal, state and community leaders who support these efforts to preserve and protect Fort Frederica.” “I am pleased to reintroduce this legislation with Senator Isakson to preserve Fort Frederica’s legacy,” said Carter. “Fort Frederica is a historic treasure and this expansion is critical to ensure the fort’s history is accessible for generations to come. The House unanimously passed this legislation last Congress and I am ready to work diligently in the 115th Congress to get it across the finish line and signed into law.” The Fort Frederica National Monument Boundary Expansion Act would increase the maximum number of acres that may be included in the monument, located on St. Simons Island, Ga., from 250 acres to 305 acres. Due to current statutory limits, legislation is required to expand the authorized boundary and remove the 250-acre ceiling established by Congress in 1958. Isakson and Carter’s bill would also allow the National Park Service to acquire, by donation or purchase, the land and interests within the monument only from those willing to sell additional land for inclusion. Isakson and Carter previously introduced companion legislation for each of the expansion and protection measures. This legislation passed the U.S. House of Representatives in the 114th Congress. The areas being assessed by the National Park Service for inclusion in the Fort Frederica National Monument are within the direct viewshed of the park, including the fort, King’s magazine, tabby ruins of soldiers’ barracks and other trails. The areas were once used by the British Town of Frederica founded in 1736 by General James Edward Oglethorpe. Based on archival data and a reconnaissance study, there is a high potential that the remains of a colonial cannon battery, Point Battery, exists within the southern area. The northern area is believed to have been used as a campground for troops in 1743.
01.13.2017	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (GA-01) voted today in support of the FY 2017 Budget Resolution to provide the tools necessary to repeal Obamacare. "I am proud to vote today to pave the way for the repeal of Obamacare," said Carter. "This is the first step in an important process to finally get rid of the Obamacare train wreck and resuscitate our broken health care system. With this legislation, my colleagues and I on the Committee on Energy and Commerce will have the opportunity to work on a stable transition to a health care system that is patient-centered and affordable." S. Con. Res. 3 provides reconciliation instructions to authorizing committees, including the Committee on Energy and Commerce, to allow repeal legislation to move through a fast-track process that can pass with a simple majority in both Chambers of Congress.
01.12.2017	U.S. Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (GA-01) and U.S. Congressman Pete Sessions, Chairman of the House Committee on Rules, reintroduced a resolution in the United States House of Representatives today recognizing the historical importance of Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas, and calling on the National Museum of African American History and Culture to appropriately honor his life and work: “I am proud to reintroduce this legislation today because the Smithsonian still has not acted to properly share Justice Thomas’ remarkable story and critical contributions to our judicial system,” said Congressman Carter. “Justice Thomas’ contributions to our nation, his unique life story, and strongly held convictions should be preserved in the National Museum of African American History and Culture and this failure to do so is a disservice to his legacy and to the history of this nation. His story is too important not to share with current and future generations, and I won’t stop this fight until the Smithsonian properly recognizes this critical part of our nation’s history." “The sole sentence in the new National Museum of African American History and Culture recognizing the accomplishments of Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas is a disservice to history. Justice Thomas’ story epitomizes the American Dream and is a reminder that in America anything is possible no matter what,” said Chairman Sessions. “His vast contributions to our great nation should be honored and celebrated, not hidden in a few words that make no mention of the depth and breadth of his accomplishments. I believe this is an important part of our nation’s history and will continue to work with my colleagues in Congress and the Smithsonian Institution to ensure Clarence Thomas receives the recognition that he deserves.”
01.09.2017	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (GA-01) was appointed today to serve on the Subcommittee on Health on the House Committee on Energy and Commerce in the 115th Congress. The Subcommittee on Health has jurisdiction over public health, mental health, hospital construction, biomedical research and development, health information privacy and security, public health insurance, private health insurance, medical malpractice and medical malpractice insurance, drug abuse, the Department of Health and Human Services, the National Institute of Health, the Centers for Disease Control, and the Indian Health Service. The subcommittee will also be tasked this year with working on the repeal and replacement of Obamacare. "As the only pharmacist in Congress and a lifelong health care professional, I am ready to use my knowledge and unique experience on the Subcommittee on Health to improve health care for all Americans," said Carter. "I know firsthand that patients deserve better and our subcommittee has a great responsibility this year to resuscitate our broken health care system. I am committed to this challenge and I will work with Chairman Walden, Chairman Burgess, and my colleagues on the committee to finally deliver a health care system that is more affordable, accessible, and patient-centered." Congressman Michael C. Burgess (TX-26), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Health, welcomed Carter to the subcommittee. "Buddy brings a lifetime of health care experience to the subcommittee," said Chairman Burgess. "As a fellow health care professional, Buddy knows firsthand the burden of the federal government in health care and the crushing weight of the ACA. We have a tremendous amount of hard work ahead of us to reform our health care system and I am glad to have Buddy on our team."
01.05.2017	The United States House of Representatives unanimously passed Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter's (GA-01) legislation to provide transparency and accountability in the federal government. Passed just a day after introduction, the GAO Access and Oversight Act provides the Government Accountability Office (GAO), the congressional watchdog, with enhanced tools to oversee federal programs and ensures GAO is able to obtain records it needs to audit, evaluate, and investigate federal agencies. "I am proud my colleagues realized how important this legislation is and wasted no time passing it, moving it one step closer to law," said Carter. "The GAO must be able to perform its duties to protect taxpayer dollars and ensure the federal government is transparent and accountable. However, GAO's important mission has been blocked due to some federal agencies failing to cooperate. I strongly urge my colleagues in the Senate to act swiftly on this legislation to ensure GAO is able to conduct their investigations properly." H.R. 72, the GAO Access and Oversight Act, now moves to the Senate for consideration.
01.04.2017	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (GA-01) was appointed today to serve on the powerful Committee on Energy and Commerce in the 115th Congress. The Committee on Energy and Commerce, the oldest standing legislative committee in the U.S. House of Representatives, is vested with responsibility for the nation's telecommunications, consumer protection, food and drug safety, public health research, environmental quality, energy policy, and interstate and foreign commerce. In announcing the appointment, Speaker of the House Paul D. Ryan said, "Buddy's insight will be extremely valuable to the committee as the only pharmacist in Congress. Since the day he became a Member of Congress, he has wasted no time offering his unique health care expertise in hopes of creating a better system for all patients. In a new year with great opportunities, I am excited to see his talents utilized on Energy and Commerce to make things better for all Americans." As the home of two of the fastest growing ports in the country, a recently-permitted LNG export facility, energy development, and Environmental Protection Agency Superfund sites, the Energy and Commerce Committee's work is of great importance to the First District of Georgia and the entire state. As a member of the committee, Carter will better serve the people of the First District, the State of Georgia, and the entire nation. "I am thrilled to have this opportunity to serve on the Committee on Energy and Commerce," said Carter. "As a lifelong health care professional, I believe it is my duty to use my knowledge and experience to help all Americans and I believe it will be best utilized on this committee. Additionally, the committee has jurisdiction over critical issues for Georgians, as well as the entire nation, beyond health care. As a member of the committee, I will work on issues related to trade, manufacturing, energy, the environment, and telecommunications. I can't wait to get to work on these issues that are so critical for our local jobs, economy, and environment."
01.03.2017	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (GA-01) was sworn into the 115th United States Congress today to serve his second term as the United States Representative for Georgia's First Congressional District. Congressman Carter, Amy Carter, and Speaker Paul D. Ryan "Serving the First District of Georgia has been one of the greatest honors of my life and I am excited to continue this great responsibility in the 115th Congress," Carter said. "While I am proud of the accomplishments and conservative victories delivered in the last Congress, I am ready for a new day in America with the new Congress and administration. We now have a tremendous and important opportunity to provide the leadership necessary to make government work for Georgians, and all Americans, not the other way around." During the ceremony, Carter joined his colleagues to take the oath of office on the House Floor. Later, Congressman Carter and his wife, Amy, joined Speaker Paul D. Ryan in the Capitol for a ceremonial swearing in. "This Congress, I am ready to work diligently to repair and replace our broken health care system, reform our tax code, support our job creators, rein in Washington's out of control debt, secure our border, and bolster our military and national security," Carter said. "Now it's time to get to work!"
01.03.2017	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (GA-01) reintroduced legislation today to provide transparency and accountability in the federal government. Carter's legislation ensures the Government Accountability Office (GAO), the congressional watchdog, is able to obtain the records it needs to audit, evaluate, and investigate federal agencies. Additionally, if an agency does not cooperate with GAO, the legislation allows GAO to use civil actions to require an agency to produce the necessary documents or records. "I reintroduced this legislation in the new Congress because it is critical to the fight to protect taxpayer dollars and ensure the federal government is transparent and accountable," said Carter. "GAO is one of the most important tools used in this fight and the agency must have access to federal agency records to fully audit government programs. Unfortunately, even though GAO has the statutory right to inspect agency records, some federal agencies fail to cooperate and block the GAO from doing its job for Congress and the American people. My legislation ensures federal agencies cooperate with GAO so they are able to access what is necessary to conduct their investigations." The House overwhelmingly passed identical legislation introduced by Carter in the 114th Congress.
12.23.2016	POOLER, GA - Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (GA-01) congratulated JCB on the United States Army's announcement that JCB has won the Light Capacity Rough Terrain Forklift (LCRTF) contract that will last through 2026. Carter assisted with securing this contract for 1,609 forklifts that is estimated to add 100 jobs. "This announcement is the result of years of hard work and I am thrilled for JCB," said Carter. "Winning this contract is a testament to the incredible work and dedication of JCB and the men and women who work there. I am glad I was able to assist with this contract that will create economic benefits and new jobs for our area and I am excited about seeing it become reality."
12.21.2016	U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson, R-Ga., and David Perdue, R-Ga., and U.S. Representative Earl L. "Buddy" Carter, R-Ga.-01, today urged the new administration to make the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project (SHEP) a top priority. In a letter to Office of Management and Budget Director-Designate Mick Mulvaney, Isakson, Perdue and Carter called on the Trump administration to fully fund and support SHEP while highlighting the importance of the project to our nation. "President-Elect Trump has made it clear that he recognizes the value in a robust infrastructure network to keep America competitive," writes Isakson, Perdue and Carter. "With over 95% of the world’s consumers lying outside of the borders of the United States, we must remain steadfast in our commitment to creating new opportunities and building upon existing ones. The Savannah Harbor Expansion Project, or SHEP, has now been authorized by Congress twice with some form of federal funding for studies or construction for 17 consecutive years. The State of Georgia, in a public-private partnership, has already raised and contributed most of their share of the project, over $200 million. The Corps of Engineers estimates that SHEP will deliver at least $174 million in net annual economic benefits upon completion and would boast one of the highest cost-to-benefit ratios of any port in the country." The letter also highlights the urgent need for funding to stay on a timeline that prevents delays in construction. "While we are early in the stages of construction, those expected benefits can’t fully be realized until the project is completed," the delegation continues. "When the Corps of Engineers first released their proposed schedule, they estimated an annual federal commitment of nearly $100 M to efficiently keep the project on track for both time and fiscal estimates. With the most recent budget request of $42.7 million in the FY17 President’s Budget Request, the federal share is far short of the anticipated funding needed for completion of the project within the next 5 years. Should the federal share continue its pace of gross underfunding, the project could be delayed by more than 5 years with the federal government’s share increasing by hundreds of millions of dollars. In essence, the more the federal government holds back in providing their share of the funding, the more it will cost the federal government in the long run." Click here to view the letter sent to Office of Management and Budget Director-Designate Mick Mulvaney.
12.16.2016	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (GA-01) today announced the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has approved Chatham County for Private Property Debris Removal. The move comes after weeks of effort led by Carter along with Senators Johnny Isakson and David Perdue. In addition to leading letters with the Senators, Carter and his staff had several meetings, conference calls, and countless exchanges with federal disaster response officials to secure the approval. The announcement will save Chatham County taxpayer dollars by tapping federal emergency response dollars rather than saddling local property owners and the county government with the hefty price tag of clean up. "This is great, but long overdue news," Carter said. "FEMA's denial of the original application was completely unacceptable. Just driving around, anyone can see how desperately we need debris removal assistance. I worked with Chatham County to appeal this decision, and I am pleased that our community will finally receive this critical assistance that it needs to recover from the hurricane. "While this is news to be celebrated, I will continue to fight to ensure other areas in the First District of Georgia also receive the help and debris removal they need." According to a letter sent to county officials by FEMA, Causton Bluff, Dutch Island, Emerald Pointe, Forest Cove, The Landings, Long Point, Modena Island, River's Edge and South Harbor have been approved for federal assistance pending indemnification agreements.
12.13.2016	U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) and U.S. Representative Earl L. “Buddy" Carter (R-GA-01) today praised the bicameral passage of their legislation to reauthorize Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers (FLETC). The bipartisan FLETC reauthorization bill will now to go President Obama’s desk for his signature. Reauthorizing our Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers is key to ensuring that our federal law enforcement officials and first responders are adequately trained for national security events, domestic threats, and combating terrorism. The legislation was originally introduced by Congressman Carter and then amended in the Senate by Senator Perdue in order to obtain additional bipartisan support. “The training our law enforcement officers receive each year at Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers is key to ensuring our national security,” said Senator Isakson. “I am proud to fight for FLETC so that its facilities can continue to deliver preeminent training to our federal law enforcement officials. I’m thankful for what FLETC achieves in Glynco, Ga., and this reauthorization is important news.” “We are fortunate FLETC is headquartered in Georgia,” said Senator Perdue. “Every year, FLETC’s facilities deliver a range of training to 96 federal partner organizations and thousands of state, local, and international law enforcement officers. As training needs evolve to combat the growing global security crisis we face today, so do FLETC’s unique capabilities which is why it remains a top training center for many agencies. I applaud the passage of this bill and look forward to seeing it signed into law.” “FLETC is the preeminent facility for law enforcement training in the United States,” said Congressman Carter. “While FLETC has provided topnotch training since its creation, Congress has failed to provide FLETC with a reauthorization. This legislation is critical to ensure authorities are codified into law so FLETC can continue to provide the highest quality and most cost effective training possible. I am thrilled this legislation passed today and I look forward to it becoming law.” Background: Established in the 1970s as a bureau of the U.S. Department of the Treasury, FLETC was created to provide cost-effective basic and advanced training for federal law enforcement officers. With the formation of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) in 2003, FLETC was formally transferred from the Treasury Department to DHS to serve as the law enforcement training hub for a variety of national and international law enforcement personnel and partner organizations. Since its establishment and the department transfer, FLETC has not been reauthorized by Congress. The FLETC main campus is headquartered in Glynco, GA, and has grown over the years to include facilities in Artesia, NM, Charleston, SC, Cheltenham, MD, and Gabarone, Botswana. Today, FLETC supports 96 agencies, trains more than 70,000 students annually, and employs more than 3,000 Georgians and almost 600 New Mexicans. U.S. Representative Buddy Carter (R-GA-01) introduced the Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers Reform and Improvement Act of 2015 in the U.S. House of Representatives, which passed overwhelmingly in December 2015. Senators Isakson and Perdue, along with Senators Tom Udall (D-NM), and Martin Heinrich (D-NM), introduced companion legislation in the U.S. Senate on April 13, 2016. Both versions of the legislation were amended and passed the Senate by voice vote on Saturday, December 10, 2016. The House agreed to the Senate amendments to the House version today, December 13, 2016. View the full text of the legislation here.
12.12.2016	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (GA-01) introduced the TSA Screening Transparency and Accountability Act to analyze the cost effectiveness, efficiency, and customer satisfaction of the Screening Partnership Program (SPP) compared to airport screening through the Transportation Security Administration (TSA). SPP allows for privatized passenger screening where airports can opt-out of TSA screening by contracting with a company to provide passenger and baggage screening commensurate with TSA standards and under the oversight of the federal government. Currently, 21 airports utilize SPP and additional airports have applications pending. However, on January 28, 2016, then-TSA Administrator John Pistole announced that SPP would no longer expand to additional airports. "Airports that utilize the SPP have seen improved customer experiences, shorter wait lines, better communication with local officials and an overall more efficient process with screening passengers," said Carter. "The action taken by the TSA to freeze the growth of the program is shortsighted and without explanation. Private security screeners, under the oversight of the TSA, have provided secure and efficient security methods. If airports want the flexibility to use private security screeners to improve their customer service, the government should encourage this effort." Specifically, the TSA Screening Transparency and Accountability Act: Requires the TSA to update its cost estimating methodology for federal cost estimates and cost comparisons as it relates to the SPP; Requires the TSA to develop a single, streamlined method and standard protocol for documenting and tracking customer complaints for both federal and SPP airport checkpoints within 180 days of enactment; Requires TSA to establish a process for analyzing information on complaint trends from all screening complaint mechanisms, including a comparison between federal screener complaints and private screener complaints; Requires TSA to use data analysis to better inform the traveling public about the nature and extent of screening complaints, and; Strengthens information sharing between TSA and airport directors and managers, which would help identify areas in need of improvement with screening. "The TSA plays a critical role in the security of Americans," said Carter. "Unfortunately, TSA is failing this mission while also prohibiting competition that could deliver better security and lower costs. This legislation works to ensure Americans receive the best and most cost effective security possible." Click here to view the text of the TSA Screening Transparency and Accountability Act.
12.05.2016	Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (GA-01) and Congressman Pete Sessions (TX-32), Chairman of the House Committee on Rules, along with twelve of their colleagues, introduced a resolution in the United States House of Representatives today recognizing the historical importance of Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas and calling on the National Museum of African American History and Culture to appropriately honor his life and work. “Justice Thomas’ exclusion from the National Museum of African American History and Culture is a tragedy,” said Carter. “In a museum designed to highlight American values like resiliency and optimism, Justice Thomas’ background and accomplishments should be highlighted as a representation of overcoming adversity to reach great heights. It is a disservice to his legacy and to the history of this nation to mention his name in a single caption, but provide no exhibit sharing and preserving his remarkable story and critical contributions to our judicial system. Justice Thomas’ contributions to America, his unique life story, and strongly held convictions should be shared and celebrated and I will not give up until the Smithsonian properly recognizes and shares this important part of history." “The museums of the Smithsonian Institution should highlight the historical achievements made in all areas of our nation’s rich history. The new National Museum of African American History and Culture should be no exception to this tradition of celebrating historical excellence and intellectual diversity,” said Chairman Sessions. “The sole sentence in the Museum recognizing the accomplishments of Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas is a disservice to history. Justice Thomas’ story epitomizes the American Dream and is a reminder that in America, no matter where or how you grow up, your highest aspirations are achievable. His immense contributions to our great nation should be celebrated and revered. I will continue to work with my colleagues in Congress and the Smithsonian Institution to ensure Clarence Thomas receives the recognition that he deserves.” Click here to read the full text of House Resolution 942, which was cosponsored by Dave Brat (VA-07), Mo Brooks (AL-05), Bradley Byrne (AL-01), Doug Collins (GA-09), Ron DeSantis (FL-06), Blake Farenthold (TX-27), Louie Gohmert (TX-01), Raul Labrador (ID-01), Mark Meadows (NC-11), Phil Roe (TN-01), Austin Scott (GA-08), and Steve Stivers (OH-15).
11.30.2016	U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson, R-Ga., and David Perdue, R-Ga., and U.S. Representative Buddy Carter, R-Ga.-01, today applauded the decision by the U.S. Army to create a new Armor Brigade Combat Team at Fort Stewart in Hinesville, Ga. The Army will convert 3rd Infantry Division’s 2nd Brigade Combat Team to an Armor Brigade Combat team. The conversion is set to begin in summer 2017. This will be the second Armor Brigade Combat team located at Fort Stewart. Currently there are nine active duty Armor Brigade Combat Teams and five National Guard Armor Brigade Combat Teams stationed throughout the United States. “The addition of another Armor Brigade Combat Team to Fort Stewart’s 3rd Infantry Division continues to highlight Georgia’s role in our nation’s ability to project power and provide security assurance to our allies,” said Isakson. “This decision by the U.S. Army underscores our ability to host critical strategic assets capable of deterrence around the world.” “The Army’s announcement is great news and exhibits a continued commitment to our nation’s defense capabilities in Georgia,” said Perdue. “The additional armored brigade at Fort Stewart provides us with a more lethal army, increasing our ability to counter the rise of Russian aggression against our European allies as well as other threats around the globe. This is a testament to the proficiency and growing capability of all the dedicated military and civilian personnel at Fort Stewart.” “This announcement is great news for our community as well as our national security as it strengthens the capabilities of the 3rd Infantry Division and Fort Stewart,” said Carter. "As the threats we face around the world continue to increase and evolve, the additional Armored Brigade Combat team will be critical in addressing them. Without question, this decision is a direct reflection of the great work of the fine men and women on post. Fort Stewart remains one of the premier Army installations in the nation, and I will continue to work to ensure Fort Stewart keeps growing.” As the security situation in Europe continues to deteriorate, the U.S. Department of Defense is reassessing its posture and ability to respond to those threats. Due to basing decisions and budget constraints, the U.S. no longer has permanent armor assets, such as tanks, stationed in Europe. To accommodate for this deficit, Regionally Aligned Forces were established to provide the United States and our allies with additional security assurance by rotating forces through Europe and other areas of the world. The 1st Armor Brigade Combat Team, 3rd Infantry Division, at Fort Stewart recently returned home from the Regionally Aligned Forces mission in October where they participated in joint exercises with NATO partner nations in response to Russia’s actions in the Ukraine. Growing threats from near-peer adversaries in Europe and elsewhere around the world have increased the demand for additional armored units to defend U.S. interests and our allies. The Army’s conversion of the Armor Brigade Combat team at Fort Stewart brings the total number of Armor Brigade Combat units located throughout the United States to 15.
11.30.2016	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (GA-01) today praised passage of the 21st Century Cures Act by the United States House of Representatives to pave the way for the next generation of disease cures and treatments. "This legislation is a game-changer in the way we treat disease," said Carter. "As a life long health care professional, I've seen diseases devastate the lives of far too many who came into my pharmacy. We've all been affected by disease in some way. Fortunately, health care innovation is better than ever before and groundbreaking medical breakthroughs are happening all around us. Unfortunately, our laws and agencies can't keep up preventing these incredible discoveries from reaching patients. That is why the legislation passed today is so important. Cures will break through these barriers allowing the development and delivery of new treatments and cures." The 21st Century Cures Act will: Remove barriers to increased research collaboration; Incorporate the patient prospective into the drug development and regulatory review process; Identify diseases earlier through personalized medicine; Modernize clinical trials; Fund the cancer moonshot initiative; Provide new incentives for the development of drugs for rare diseases, and; Help the entire biomedical ecosystem coordinate more efficiently to find faster cures. "Disease does not discriminate by political party and this legislation was crafted by the hard work of members from both sides of the aisle," said Carter. "I am proud to support this critical, bipartisan legislation today because families across the country deserve access to the best treatments and Cures will ensure that is possible."
11.29.2016	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (GA-01) released the following statement applauding President-elect Donald Trump's nomination of Congressman Tom Price (GA-06) as Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services: "Tom Price is absolutely the best man for the job and I applaud President-elect Trump's decision. As a fellow health care professional, Tom has experienced firsthand the destruction of our health care system and knows how important it is to end the Obamacare train wreck once and for all. He has already created conservative solutions to accomplish this and repair our broken health care system to empower patients with more choices, lower costs and better services. I am confident Tom will work with Congress to ensure this becomes a reality. "It has been an honor to work with Tom. I congratulate my friend and I am excited to continue our work together in his new role to deliver the health care system Americans deserve."
11.20.2016	"Don was the consummate professional with a heart of gold. He had a knack for finding the story and applying his unique point of view to bring it into our homes every night. On camera and off, he was a genuine person who cared deeply for our community. Amy and I send our thoughts and prayers to the Logana family, the WTOC family, and all those in our community who join us in mourning this loss." share: f t Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter released the following statement upon learning of the death of longtime reporter Don Logana: "Don was the consummate professional with a heart of gold. He had a knack for finding the story and applying his unique point of view to bring it into our homes every night. On camera and off, he was a genuine person who cared deeply for our community. Amy and I send our thoughts and prayers to the Logana family, the WTOC family, and all those in our community who join us in mourning this loss."
11.20.2016	Carter Mourns Loss of Hero SAVANNAH, GA - Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-GA) released the following statement on the death of Master Firefighter Michael Curry: "Our hearts are heavy in Savannah as we mourn the loss of Master Firefighter Mike Curry. He died in service to our community and, as he did so often, running towards and emergency while others sought out safety. Amy and I are heartbroken and send our prayers to the Curry family, the community of first responders, and all those who join us in mourning the loss of a true hero." ### share: f t SAVANNAH, GA - Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-GA) released the following statement on the death of Master Firefighter Michael Curry: "Our hearts are heavy in Savannah as we mourn the loss of Master Firefighter Mike Curry. He died in service to our community and, as he did so often, running towards an emergency while others sought out safety. Amy and I are heartbroken and send our prayers to the Curry family, the community of first responders, and all those who join us in mourning the loss of a true hero." ###
11.15.2016	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (GA-01) released the following statement after it was reported that President Barack Obama criticized President-elect Donald Trump in Athens, Greece today: "It is disappointing that President Obama would use his platform to attack our President-Elect on foreign soil. The American people spoke loud and clear on Tuesday. We are ready for a new America led by Donald Trump and a unified Republican Congress. President Obama should stop wasting time trying to relitigate the election and focus on moving forward united."
11.15.2016	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (GA-01) released the following statement after Congressman Doug Collins (GA-09) was elected to serve as Vice Chair of the United States House of Representatives Republican Conference for the 115th Congress: "Congratulations to my friend Doug Collins, the next Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference! I'm thrilled that Doug's work ethic, leadership skills, and strong conservative values will assist in ensuring our conference moves forward united to deliver the results Americans deserve. It's a new day in America, and Doug will be a strong voice for Georgians, as well as all conservatives, in leadership."
11.09.2016	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (GA-01) released the following statement on the results of the election for President of the United States: "This is a new and exciting day for America! After eight years which have been nothing short of a disaster led by President Obama and democrats, we now have the opportunity to turn to a new page in our history. Americans are frustrated, just as I have been since the first day I arrived in Washington, and I am excited to join Donald Trump to deliver a brighter future for our nation. "I look forward to working with Donald Trump to deliver true conservative results for the First District of Georgia, as well as the entire nation. We must repeal Obamacare and deliver a market based health care system that provides more choices with less costs. We must face radical Islamic terrorism head on and destroy it. We must get the government out of the way of our job creators. We must deliver an all of the above energy strategy. Together, we will tackle these challenges and many more. Now, let's get to work!"
11.03.2016	Representative Earl L. "Buddy" Carter, GA-1, demanded an explanation today about the absence of Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas from the newly opened National Museum of African American History and Culture and requested plans to include Thomas in a permanent exhibit. In a letter to Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution David J. Skorton, Carter along with Members of Congress from across the country wrote, "We write with grave concerns regarding recent reports that the historical nature of the life of Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas is not represented in the newly opened National Museum of African American History and Culture. Excluding Justice Thomas’ story from this institution denies its visitors an important representation of overcoming adversity to reach great heights. "The background and accomplishments of Justice Thomas are worthy of inclusion in the museum on their own merits. Justice Thomas’ contributions to the judicial system through his appointment to the highest court in the country cannot be discounted. It is a disservice to his legacy and to the history of this nation to mention his name in a single caption, but provide no other exhibit showcasing his story. "The National Museum of African American History and Culture states that it is an institution where 'anyone is welcome to participate, collaborate, and learn more about African American history and culture.' Justice Thomas’ exclusion from the new museum has led some to draw conclusions of a political bias in the curation of an institution that should be above reproach. With this in mind, we insist that you provide an explanation about the conspicuous absence of Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas from the new museum, and of any future plans to feature him in a permanent exhibit." Carter was joined on the letter sent to Secretary Skorton by Representatives Joe Barton, TX-6, John Duncan, TN-2, Joesph Pitts, PA-16, Steve King, IA-4, Louie Gohmert, TX-1, Lynn Westmoreland, GA-3, Mo Brooks, AL-5, Tim Huelskamp, KS-1, Austin Scott, GA-8, Mark Meadows, NC-11, Jason Smith, MO-8, Dave Brat, VA-7, Rick Allen, GA-12, Brian Babin, TX-36, Jody Hice, GA-10, and Barry Loudermilk, GA-11. To view the full text of the letter, click here.
10.28.2016	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (GA-01) released the following statement today on the FBI's announcement to continue investigation of Secretary of State Hillary Clinton's emails: "Today's announcement is welcome, but long overdue. Months ago FBI Director Comey laid out a case against Hillary Clinton and confirmed she has been lying to the American people then all of a sudden said there would be no charges. The FBI Director himself said if someone else would have engaged in this activity they would face consequences. No one is above the law, including Hillary Clinton, and I call on the FBI to conduct a thorough and transparent investigation. "In light of this announcement today, I look forward to working with Chairman Jason Chaffetz and my colleagues on the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee to finally reveal the truth for the American people."
10.27.2016	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (GA-01) today demanded immediate action at the Westlake Apartments. Carter has led the charge for assistance at the complex in the wake of Hurricane Matthew. After weeks of receiving inaccurate or incomplete information from the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), Carter today urged HUD Secretary Julian Castro to visit and intercede immediately on behalf of the tenants of the Westlake Apartments. "We are now twenty days after the storm and HUD still cannot answer my questions or provide a plan to ensure these residents are in safe housing," Carter said. "I refuse to sit idly and allow HUD to see these people as statistics and not human beings who need action immediately. I strongly urge Secretary Castro to visit Westlake Apartments as soon as possible and I will continue to fight to ensure these residents receive the assistance they need." In a letter to Secretary Castro, Carter wrote, "I have been in contact with the Federal Emergency Management Agency, Aspen Company/Treetop Development (Westlake Apartments property management and owners), Savannah Public Housing Authority, U.S Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and HUD’s regional office, with little to no coordination occurring on the ground. It has become evident that HUD is failing in its responsibilities, and it seems that HUD is treating these displaced families like statistics and not human beings. I request that you, Secretary Castro, visit Westlake Apartments to assess the damage and provide a detailed plan to immediately get the tenants into safe housing." Click here to view Carter's letter to Secretary Castro.
10.27.2016	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (GA-01) released the following statement today after Armstrong State University announced President Linda Bleicken will retire: "Linda has made tremendous strides at Armstrong State during her time at the university. During her tenure, access to scholarships has increased, diversity in the student body has grown, and Armstrong graduated the largest class in the school's history. She has also worked diligently to increase veteran enrollment at the university and led the charge to certify Armstrong as a National Center for Academic Excellence in Cyber Defense Education. "I want to thank her for her tireless efforts resulting in a brighter future for students, the university, and our entire community. I wish Mrs. Bleicken and her family the best in the future."
10.17.2016	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (GA-01) today requested immediate disaster assistance for Georgia in the wake of Hurricane Matthew. On October 8, 2016, President Barack Obama issued a Major Disaster Declaration for Bryan, Camden, Chatham, Glynn, Liberty, and McIntosh County. Additional declarations and individual assistance has been delayed since that time. Today, Carter asked President Obama to immediately expand the disaster declaration to additional Georgia counties and to include individual assistance declarations for those counties hit hardest by Hurricane Matthew. In a letter to the President, Carter wrote, "Having personally visited much of the affected area, I can attest that this storm brought significant damage warranting additional federal assistance far beyond the six counties currently included.While joint Georgia Emergency Management Agency and Federal Emergency Management Agency teams are working diligently to conduct assessments, it has been 10 days since the storm hit and these communities simply cannot afford to wait any longer.Damage from Hurricane Matthew was not limited by county lines and the current six county designation is woefully inadequate.I urge your Administration to expand Public Assistance to all of the 30 counties contained in Governor Nathan Deal’s state of emergency declaration. "In addition, families and businesses in those counties hit hardest by this storm continue to wait for Individual Assistance declaration.Beyond denying these families much-needed assistance programs in their time of need, the delay is preventing businesses and individuals from receiving tax relief and deadline extensions from the Internal Revenue Service.Such uncertainty impedes the ability of my constituents to recover from this devastating storm. I urge you to expand Individual Assistance to affected Georgia counties." Click here to view Carter's letter to President Obama.
10.17.2016	Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (R-GA) today announced that the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) is honoring his request to extend tax relief to Coastal Georgia victims of Hurricane Matthew. As a result, residents and businesses in at least six Georgia counties will automatically receive a six month extension for returns or payments due through tonight, October 17, as well as other tax relief measures. Moreover, taxpayers in counties added later to the disaster area declaration will receive the same filing and payment relief. “Businesses and families in Coastal Georgia should be focused on rebuilding, not meeting arbitrary IRS deadlines,” said Carter.“I appreciate the IRS honoring my request to extend this tax relief to our area and will work to ensure it is expanded to all areas damaged by Hurricane Matthew.” The tax relief has been extended to Georgia businesses and residents in Bryan, Camden, Chatham, Glynn, Liberty, and McIntosh counties. Additional counties impacted by the storm may be added pending joint damage assessments currently underway by the Georgia Emergency Management and Homeland Security Agency (GEMHSA) and the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). Congressman Carter has urged President Barack Obama to expand the disaster declaration for the State of Georgia and to expedite consideration of increasing the types of assistance available to Coastal Georgians. "Having personally visited much of the affected area, I can attest that this storm brought significant damage warranting additional federal assistance far beyond the six counties currently included,” he said. “It has been 10 days since the storm hit and these communities simply cannot afford to wait any longer. Damage from Hurricane Matthew was not limited by county lines and the current six county disaster designation is woefully inadequate.” For more information on resources available to those affected by Hurricane Matthew, visit http://BuddyCarter.House.gov.
10.13.2016	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (GA-01) today requested an extension of the deadline for individual and business tax returns and tax payments to March 15, 2017 for residents in Georgia counties affected by Hurricane Matthew. Carter also requested any additional tax relief available. In a letter sent to Internal Revenue Service Commissioner John Koskinen, Carter wrote "As you may know, Hurricane Matthew brought significant damage throughout many Southeastern Georgia counties.A federal disaster declaration has been issued for six Georgia counties and we expect that declaration to be expanded into the 30 counties included in a disaster declaration by the State of Georgia.While the Georgia Emergency Management Agency (GEMA) and the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) are in the process of conducting their necessary joint assessments, I hope you will allow individuals and businesses affected by this devastating storm to focus their efforts on rebuilding their lives rather than meeting these deadlines." "I made this request today because I have traveled the district and I have seen the devastation from Hurricane Matthew with my own eyes," said Carter. "I have spoken to our residents and business owners who are tragically overwhelmed enough with the challenges of rebuilding their lives and livelihoods after the storm and they must be able to focus on that. Until our community is put back together, taxes and the IRS can wait." Click here to view Carter's letter to Commissioner Koskinen.
09.29.2016	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (GA-01) praised passage of the Water Resources Development Act today which contains provisions critical to harbor maintenance in Brunswick, Georgia. "The legislation passed today ensures the federal government is focused on the navigation needs of the Brunswick Harbor," Carter said. "For too long, the federal government has failed to properly support the harbor leaving it to the state to make up for shortfalls in funding. The Port of Brunswick is a critical economic driver for the First District, as well as the entire state, and it's time for the federal government to hold up its end of the deal and properly support maintenance in Brunswick." Specifically, the Water Resources Development Act: Authorizes a feasibility study for the Brunswick Harbor for conservation; Requires the Army Corps of Engineers to make maintenance dredging data publicly available; Institutes transparency on the budget used for maintenance; And works to bring back dredges which were pulled away from the Port of Brunswick by the Army Corps of Engineersfor emergency dredging on the Mississippi River.
09.28.2016	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (GA-01) released the following statement today after voting to override President Barack Obama's veto of the Justice Against Sponsors of Terrorism Act, bipartisan legislation which would allow the victims and families of victims of terror attacks to sue foreign states that aid and abet acts of terror on U.S. soil: "No one knows more about the pain and suffering of the horrific terror attacks on September 11, 2001, than the families of those we lost that day.When this legislation was passed unanimously in both the House and Senate, President Obama had the opportunity to provide these families with the chance to finally get the justice they deserve. However, instead of standing with us, he decided to block the fight for justice and that is unacceptable. Now that the House and Senate have both voted to override President Obama's veto, American families will now get their day in court, with or without the support of our commander-in-chief."
09.28.2016	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (GA-01) voted today to continue funding the federal government. The Continuing Resolution (CR) funds the government at the current rate of operations through December 9, 2016. The CR also includes $1.1 billion to fight the Zika virus. "While it's frustrating we're putting a bandaid on the budget again, the CR passed today is critical to avoid a damaging shutdown and ensure the government continues to operate," Carter said. "As we've seen this week, and many times before, Senate Democrats will not stop playing political games with the budget, and the CR passed today will give us time to create fiscally responsible spending bills. Additionally, after funding to combat the Zika virus was held up due to even more games from Senate Democrats, the CR finally provides authorities with the resources necessary to protect the public and combat the disease at its source."
09.21.2016	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (GA-01) has been awarded the Friend of Farm Bureau Award by the American Farm Bureau Federation (AFBF). The Friend of Farm Bureau Award is reserved for legislators who support the priorities of AFBF, the unified national voice of agriculture. "The hard work of our farmers, ranchers, and producers ensures the United States has the safest and most affordable food supply in the world," said Carter. "Agriculture is responsible for employing one in seven Georgians and it is critical Congress supports the needs of Georgia's top industry. I am honored to receive this award and I will continue fighting for Georgia's famers to ensure their voice is heard in Congress." In awarding the Friend of Farm Bureau Award, AFBF considered the votes legislators cast on legislation pertaining to food security and safety, regulatory reform, technology and trade. The AFBF Board of Directors, on which Georgia Farm Bureau President Gerald Long serves, established these priority issues. “We're extremely grateful for the support we received from Congressman Carter,” Georgia Farm Bureau President Gerald Long said. “Congressman Carter voted with the Farm Bureau's position on key agricultural issues, which was essential to the continued success of Georgia farmers, during the 114th Congress.” The first recipients of the Friend of Farm Bureau Award were announced in September 1996 and have been announced every other September thereafter near the end of subsequent congresses. Founded in 1937, Georgia Farm Bureau is the state's largest general farm organization and has 158 county offices. Its volunteer members actively participate in local, state and national activities that promote agriculture awareness to their non-farming neighbors.
09.20.2016	The United States House of Representatives approved Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter's (GA-01) legislation today to provide transparency and accountability in the federal government. Carter's legislation ensures the Government Accountability Office (GAO), the congressional watchdog, is able to obtain the records it needs to audit, evaluate, and investigate federal agencies. Additionally, if an agency does not cooperate with GAO, H.R. 5690 allows GAO to use civil actions to require an agency to produce the necessary documents or records. "GAO is one of the most important tools used in the fight to protect taxpayer dollars and ensure the federal government is transparent and accountable," said Carter. "Over the last six years, the congressional watchdog has recommended more than 600 corrective actions which will result in $125 billion dollars in savings from 2010 to 2025. However, the GAO's important work is only possible if they are able to access federal agency records to fully audit government programs. Unfortunately, even though GAO has the statutory right to inspect agency records, some federal agencies fail to cooperate and block the GAO from doing its job for Congress and the American people. My legislation passed in the House today ensures federal agencies cannot continue to put up roadblocks for the GAO and ensures they are able to access all records and data necessary to conduct their investigations." Carter's legislation, H.R. 5690, the GAO Access and Oversight Act, passed the House today by a vote of 404-0.
09.19.2016	Representative Earl L. "Buddy" Carter, Ga.-01, along with U.S. Senator David Perdue, R-Ga., and Representatives Lynn Westmoreland, Ga.-03, Tom Price, Ga.-06, Austin Scott, Ga.-08, Doug Collins, Ga.-09, Jody Hice, Ga.-10, and Rick Allen, Ga.-12, called on the Department of Justice to honor a contract with the GEO Group, the operator of the privately-operated D. Ray James Correctional Facility in Folkston, Georgia, to continue operations at the facility for another two years after the contract was rescinded by the Bureau of Prisons (BOP) without explanation or factual basis. The rescission of the contract and attempted closure of the facility comes as a larger DOJ initiative to phase out privately-operated prisons such as D. Ray James. In a letter to United States Deputy Attorney General Sally Yates the delegation wrote, "The D. Ray James Correctional Facility houses criminal aliens who were convicted of federal crimes and are awaiting deportation. The GEO Group was awarded a four-year contract on October 1, 2010, and BOP has had three options to extend the contract for two years. Based on the strong performance of the GEO Group and the valuable role DRJ plays in the prison system, BOP extended the contract on the same terms from September 30, 2014 to September 30, 2016. On August 18, 2016, again on account of high performance, the GEO Group was formally notified by BOP that its contract had been extended for an additional two years. The following day, without explanation or factual basis, BOP rescinded the extension." D. Ray James Correctional Facility has received a superior rating from the BOP and is responsible for 472 jobs and $33 million in annual, direct local spending, with $100 million in economic input. If the contract is not honored at the current terms, these jobs and the economic benefits will be put in jeopardy. "We urge you and BOP to honor the two-year contract extension granted to the GEO Group on August 18, 2016. Maintaining the extension of the contract is important for the citizens of Georgia, for our immigration laws, and for U.S. taxpayers, who expect and deserve continued strong performance from facilities funded with their hard-earned money," the delegation wrote. Click here to view the letter sent to United States Attorney General Sally Yates.
09.15.2016	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (GA-01) released the following statement after the United States House of Representatives passed H.R. 5351 today to block the release or transfer of detainees from the detention center at Guantanamo Bay: "There should be no questions about it - it is illegal to transfer detainees from Guantanamo Bay to the United States. While President Obama's own Attorney General has confirmed this, there is apparently no stopping this president when he's trying to fulfill a campaign promise. While politics may be President Obama's priority, mine is the safety of the American people and protecting our homeland. "It's baffling that the administration cannot recognize what should seem very simple. Releasing or transferring radical terrorists so they are able to return to the battlefield, as many have before, is a threat to the homeland and Americans at home and abroad. President Obama and his administration must shift their focus to destroying radical Islamic terrorism instead of allowing the worst of the worst to return to it. Releasing these terrorists or bringing them to the United States is not acceptable and this legislation ensures it will not happen." H.R. 5351 prohibits the release or transfer of detainees at Guantanamo Bay to the United States or a foreign county until the end of the year or enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for fiscal year 2017.
09.14.2016	The National Federation of Business (NFIB), the nation's advocate for small businesses, today awarded Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (GA-01) with its Guardian of Small Business Award for his strong support of America's small businesses in the 114th Congress. Rep. Carter receives the Guardian of Small Business Award from NFIB "As a small business owner for more than 30 years, I know firsthand of the many challenges that small businesses across the country face every day," said Carter. "In recent years, these hardworking men and women have faced increased hurdles due to the Obama Administration's costly and burdensome regulatory framework. Small businesses are the backbone of our nation and it is one of my top priorities in Congress to get the government and this administration out of their way. I am honored to receive this award today and I will continue to work to change the trajectory for the better for America's job creators." The Guardian of Small Business is NFIB’s most prestigious award. It is reserved for lawmakers who support key issues identified by small business owners. “Many elected officials claim that they are champions of small business, but our Guardian Award shows our members and other small business owners who is really fighting for them,”said NFIB President and CEO Juanita Duggan. “Based on his voting record, Representative Carter is one of the most reliable advocates for small business in Washington.” Carter received a 100 voting record during the 114th Congress.
09.14.2016	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (GA-01) acted today to hold employees at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) accountable for their actions. With Carter's support, the United States House of Representatives approved legislation to make it easier to fire VA employees for performance or misconduct. "As I travel across the First District of Georgia, I continue to hear the same disturbing message - the VA is failing our veterans," said Carter. "American heroes are waiting weeks, months, and even years for service from the VA and it's obvious some employees at the VA are not doing their jobs. As a small business owner for thirty years, I know firsthand how important it is to have good people working for you. On the flip side, it's a standard business practice to separate from an employee if they are engaging in unacceptable behavior or simply not doing their job. For some reason beyond my understanding though, this practice does not apply to bureaucrats at the VA and that is why this legislation is so important. This bill breaks down barriers to finally eliminate bad actors in an efficient way. If a VA employee can't provide our veterans with the best possible care when they return home, they should and will be replaced with someone who will." In addition to making it easier to fire or demote bad employees, the VA Accountability First and Appeals Modernization Act strengthens whistleblower protections and reforms the VA appeal process in an effort to expedite the process.
09.09.2016	Approaching the 15th anniversary of the terror attacks on September 11, 2001, the United States House of Representatives passed legislation today with Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter's (GA-01) support to allow the victims and families of victims of terror attacks to sue foreign states that aid and abet acts of terror on U.S. soil. "Fifteen years after the horrific events of September 11th and the worst terror attack on U.S. soil, American families still do not have the justice they deserve," said Carter. "The victims and families of the victims of 9/11 and other terror attacks in the U.S. have faced unimaginable tragedy, loss, and heartbreak and we must do everything our power to ensure they finally receive justice. "I am thankful this legislation passed unanimously in both the House and Senate. I strongly urge President Obama to sign this legislation into law immediately to join us in saying we will not tolerate state-sponsored terrorism. The President of the United States cannot stand idly by in the fight for justice for our fellow Americans." Currently, a legal loophole allows foreign governments to hide from lawsuits brought against them for involvement in terror on U.S. soil. This loophole has posed as a roadblock for the family members of victims of 9/11 terrorists in a lawsuit against Saudi Arabia. Without the Justice Against Sponsors of Terrorism Act, the case against Saudi Arabia will be thrown out of court and the victims and families of victims will not have an opportunity to make their case.
09.06.2016	The United States House of Representatives unanimously passed Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter's (GA-01) legislation today to expand the Fort Frederica National Monument on St. Simons Island. The legislation will increase the maximum number of authorized acres that may be included in the monument from 250 to 305. Due to current statute, legislation is required to expand the authorized boundary and remove the current 250-acre ceiling established by Congress in 1958. The legislation now moves to the United States Senate for consideration. "The First District of Georgia is home to many historic treasures and Fort Frederica National Monument is a shining example," said Carter. "I am excited this legislation was approved by the House today moving it one step closer to preserving Fort Frederica's legacy. The expansion of the monument is critical to ensure future generations are given the opportunity to learn about the fort's history first hand for years to come. I urge my colleagues in the Senate to take swift action on this important legislation." The areas being assessed by the National Park Service for inclusion in the Fort Frederica National Monument are within the direct viewshed of the park including the fort, King’s magazine, tabby ruins of soldiers’ barracks, and other trails. The areas were once used by the British Town of Frederica founded in 1736 by General James Edward Oglethorpe. Based on archival data and a reconnaissance study, there is a high potential that the remains of a colonial cannon battery, Point Battery, exists within the southern area. The northern area is believed to have been used as a campground for troops in 1743.
07.15.2016	This week, Congress sent legislation crafted by a House-Senate Conference Committee to combat opioid abuse and addiction to the president's desk to be signed into law. As a member of the Conference Committee, Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (GA-01) played an integral role in creation of the legislation. "As the only pharmacist in Congress, I am grateful to have been a member of this Conference Committee to provide real solutions to the opioid epidemic plaguing our nation,"said Carter. "The agreement crafted by colleagues from both sides of the aisle combats the opioid epidemic from every angle. As a pharmacist for more than 30 years, I have seen the tragedy of addiction firsthand and I am committed to ending this epidemic wreaking havoc on communities across America. I believe the bipartisan legislation sent to the White House will make a real difference in this fight and I strongly urge President Obama to sign this legislation into law immediately. "
07.13.2016	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (GA-01) voted today to prevent discrimination against health care providers who do not participate in abortion. The Conscience Protection Act passed in the House today with Carter's support also ensures entities who are discriminated against are able to defend themselves in a court of law. "Whether it's the churches in California forced to cover abortion in their health care plans or a nurse in New York required to take part in a dismemberment of a 22-week-old unborn child, conscience rights across America are under attack," said Carter. "Right now, Americans are not only facing discrimination for their beliefs but the only action they can take once it happens is filing a complaint with the Department of Health and Human Services. Americans deserve legal recourse to protect their rights if they are forced to participate in abortions against their will. No one should live in fear of losing their jobs or violating the law because of what they believe."
07.06.2016	The Georgia Ports Authority has received a $44 million Fixing America's Surface Transportation (FAST) grant from the U.S. Department of Transportation to increase rail capacity at the Port of Savannah. "I would like to thank the Georgia Congressional delegation, including Congressmen Buddy Carter and Rob Woodall, and Senators Johnny Isakson and David Perdue, for their dedicated support of this program," said GPA Executive Director Griff Lynch. "As the nation's fourth busiest container port, Savannah's continued rail expansion is a key component to freight mobility in this country. This transformative project will not only increase rail capacity and velocity at the Garden City Container Terminal, but will also provide substantial benefits to surrounding communities by improving public safety, reducing environmental impacts and avoiding commuter traffic." The $44 million award, made possible through the Nationally Significant Freight and Highway Projects (NSFHP) Program, is a significant portion of a total $128 million project known as the Port of Savannah International Multi-modal Connector. The project is expected to take five years to complete. Currently, 18 percent of the containers handled at Garden City Terminal moves on Class I railroads Norfolk Southern and CSX. The Port of Savannah handled 3.73 million twenty-foot equivalent container units in 2015. "Investments such as this and the related inland rail facilities throughout Georgia will help shift more containers from truck to rail, allowing greater efficiency and reduced highway congestion," GPA Board Chairman Jimmy Allgood said. "Rail cargo will play an important role in our future, not only increasing our capacity, but opening up new markets for Georgia's ports. Gov. Nathan Deal has also announced a $10 billion freight mobility plan to be carried out over the next 10 years, which will improve the capacity and fluidity of transportation infrastructure across the state," Comments from elected officials: "The announcement today is great and well-deserved news. I was pleased to support the FAST Act last year because the Port of Savannah and other projects around the state deserve the stability of a long-term plan from the federal government for transportation infrastructure improvements," said Rep. Buddy Carter. "As part of the FAST Act, the FASTLANE program prioritizes federal spending on critical transportation projects necessary to the nation's security and economic success, which makes the Port of the Savannah the perfect recipient of this funding. The Port is essential for jobs and economic growth in the First District, the Southeast, and the entire nation. This important funding will assist in increasing this economic success and work to improve rail capacity, reduce congestion around the ports, improve highway safety, and strengthen job opportunities." "We knew going in that the FAST Act needed to be legislation that would reform how we go about prioritizing and spending money maintaining and expanding America's infrastructure, and in turn, start earning back America's trust in how we use their hard-earned tax dollars," said Rep. Rob Woodall. "This grant, and others in FASTLANE, is a wonderful example of that effort taking shape. The Port of Savannah is one of the busiest ports in the country, which makes it the perfect candidate for what this program is intended to do: steer taxpayer dollars toward projects that matter most to America. Whether it's ensuring the safety of workers and nearby residents, clearing traffic congestion to get folks home to their families sooner, or making sure we have the necessary infrastructure to create Georgia jobs, this is exactly the kind of nationally significant project that will benefit Georgia families and our nation's economy." "Last year, I was proud to support the FAST Act because Georgia needs a long-term plan from the federal government to support urgently needed transportation infrastructure improvements," said U.S. Senator Johnny Isakson, R-Ga. "I am pleased to see the newly created FASTLANE program already paying off for Georgia with this critical funding to help improve rail capacity, reduce traffic and commuter delays on roadways, enhance economic competiveness of the Savannah port and increase Georgia farmers' and manufacturers' access to foreign markets. Local commuters and businesses in the Savannah area will also benefit greatly from the enhanced movement of maritime cargo and improved flood control. Furthermore, this project will create both immediate and long-term jobs, while increasing economic development, and critical safety and environmental improvements." "The Port of Savannah is the fastest growing port in the country and plays a vital role in expanding trade in the Southeast and around the world," said Sen. David Perdue. "Moving forward, the Savannah Port needs to increase and improve infrastructure surrounding the port. With the deepening of the Panama Canal it is critical that there are adequate transportation corridors around the Port of Savannah to accommodate increased activity." Find print-quality images of port operations here. Georgia's deepwater ports and inland barge terminals support more than 369,000 jobs throughout the state annually and contribute $20.4 billion in income, $84.1 billion in revenue and $2.3 billion in state and local taxes to Georgia's economy. The Port of Savannah handled 8 percent of the U.S. containerized cargo volume and 11 percent of all U.S. containerized exports in CY2014.
06.27.2016	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (GA-01) released the following statement today after the United States Supreme Court issued a decision in Whole Woman's Health v. Hellerstedt, striking down two Texas laws requiring abortion clinics to meet health and safety standards essential to protect women's health at abortion clinics: "The Supreme Court not only failed to protect the lives of innocent unborn babies today, the Court has also failed to protect the lives of their mothers. While I strongly believe life starts at conception and steadfastly oppose abortion, the Texas laws overturned today simply ensured the presence of critical health and safety protections that are already required of other health care providers. "It is a truly shocking and sad day when the Supreme Court of the United States of America will go as far as putting the lives of American women at risk by prohibiting a state from requiring basic health standards for abortion clinics in order to push forward a pro-abortion agenda. While the ruling is disappointing, it is a strong reminder that we must continue the fight stronger than ever to protect women's health and the lives of the unborn who have no voice to protect themselves." In February, Carter signed an amicus brief supporting the state of Texas in the case.
06.23.2016	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (GA-01) released the following statement after the Supreme Court ruled 4-4 on the case of United States v. Texas, upholding a lower court ruling which will block the president's use of executive action to grant amnesty to illegal immigrants: "The decision today is a great win for the Constitution. The President of the United States is not a king and does not rule from a castle. This ruling affirms what every branch of government, including the president himself, has said - the president's backdoor attempt at granting amnesty to illegal immigrants is unconstitutional. I hope this serves as a wake up call and reminder to this administration that this is America and the people, through their elected representatives, will make the decisions in this nation. There is no room for executive fiat and it will not stand." In March, Carter voted to file an amicus brief on behalf of the United States House of Representatives to support the lawsuit from states, including Georgia, to permanently stop the executive orders on amnesty.
06.16.2016	In the wake of the deadliest terror attack on American soil since 9/11, Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (Ga-01) responded today to the threat of ISIS and radical Islamic terrorism to our homeland. Over the past few months, the United States House of Representatives has passed multiple bills to address radicalization, prevent attacks, counter homegrown terrorism, and stop terrorists from entering the United States. In an effort to get as many of these bills signed into law as soon as possible, the House passed a package of these counterterrorism bills today. "As our Commander-in-Chief blatantly underestimates and fails to address the very real threat of radical Islamic terrorism to our homeland even in the wake of the deadliest terror attack on American soil since 9/11, I refuse to do the same," Carter said. "Our nation must rally behind the victims in Orlando and the 49 grieving families and friends planning funerals by acting now to stop violent radical terrorists in their tracks. This evil will continue to spread until we finally destroy extremism at its core. I strongly urge the Senate to send this counterterrorism package to President Obama's desk immediately. With the safety of all Americans on the line there is no time to waste." The counterterrorism package passed in the House today includes: H.R. 4401, the Alert Act H.R. 4820, the Combating Terrorist Recruitment Act H.R. 4407, the Counterterrorism Advisory Board Act Carter is a member of the House Committee on Homeland Security and has been a leader in the fight to defeat radical extremists and protect the homeland.
06.16.2016	The United States House of Representatives approved $1.48 billion for the Ohio-class missile submarine replacement reactor program today. The funding is critical for the construction of a new class of 12 ballistic missile submarines (SSBNs) which will one day replace the existing Ohio-class SSBNs such as those currently homeported at Naval Submarine Base Kings Bay in St. Marys, Georgia. "Threats against the United States are greater than ever and the submarines stationed at Kings Bay play a critical role in our nuclear deterrence and national security," Carter said. "The funding provided in the legislation today will help to ensure there are no interruptions due to a gap in the retirement of the Ohio-class submarines and their replacement. As the fine men and women stationed at Kings Bay work tirelessly everyday to remain the elite home to the Atlantic ballistic submarine fleet, I will continue the fight to ensure they are able to maintain their mission." The funding comes as part of the fiscal year 2017 Defense Appropriations bill which funds military training and readiness and provides a 2.1 percent pay raise for our troops. Carter has been a leader in the fight for the replacement program. During budget discussions leading to the passage of the bill in the House today, Carter testified about the indispensable national security importance of the existing SSBN fleet and the need to expedite their replacement.
06.16.2016	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (Ga-01) acted today to protect the A-10 Thunderbolt fleet. The United States House of Representatives approved $467 million to keep the Warthog flying and prohibited the divestment, retirement or storage of the aircraft securing protection of the 23d Wing stationed at Moody Air Force Base. "The tragedy in Orlando is a devastating reminder for us all that the threat of ISIS and radical Islamic terrorism is alive and greater than ever," Carter said. "Right now the A-10s are on the front lines in the fight against the terror group flying Close Air Support missions against their advances. This aircraft is critical to not only defeat ISIS but to keep our troops on the ground safe. Currently the A-10 is the only aircraft of its kind that can protect our service members while remaining close to the battlefield for any additional support needed by ground troops. If the safety of our soldiers is on the line, I will continue to fight to ensure the A-10 keeps flying." The funding comes as part of the fiscal year 2017 Defense Appropriations bill which funds military training and readiness and provides a 2.1 percent pay raise for our troops. Carter has been a leader in the fight to preserve the A-10 and ensure funding was included in the legislation. During discussions leading to passage of the appropriations bill in the House today, Carter testified on the importance of the A-10 to our national security.
06.16.2016	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter's (GA-01) legislation to expand the Fort Frederica National Monument on St. Simons Island is now headed for consideration by the full United States House of Representatives. The House Committee on Natural Resources unanimously approved Carter's legislation to increase the maximum number of authorized acres that may be included in the monument from 250 to 305. Due to current statute, legislation is required to expand the authorized boundary and remove the current 250-acre ceiling established by Congress in 1958. "The Fort Frederica National Monument is a treasure in the First District of Georgia," Carter said. "This legislation is critical to protect the existing portions of the original fort, excavated remains of the town's foundations, a museum, and extensive hiking trails as well as artifacts from prehistoric human settlements that are likely on the adjacent land. The expansion of the monument will preserve Fort Frederica's history and legacy for many generations to come and I am thrilled this bill was voted out of the Natural Resources Committee and is headed for consideration by the full House." The areas being assessed by the National Park Service for inclusion in the Fort Frederica National Monument are within the direct viewshed of the park including, the fort, King’s magazine, tabby ruins of soldiers’ barracks, and other trails. The areas were once used by the British Town of Frederica founded in 1736 by General James Edward Oglethorpe. Based on archival data and a reconnaissance study, there is a high potential that the remains of a colonial cannon battery, Point Battery, exists within the southern area. The northern area is believed to have been used as a campground for troops in 1743.
06.14.2016	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (Ga-01) acted today to further his mission of eliminating the abuse at the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). To prevent additional politically motivated targeting scandals by the IRS like the "accidental" leak by an IRS employee of personal information of donors to the National Organization for Marriage to the Huffington Post, Carter voted in support of legislation to prohibit the agency from requiring a tax-exempt organization to include in annual returns the name, address, or any other identifying information of any contributor. "Congress has been investigating the IRS's treatment of conservative tax-exempt groups for over two years and we still have no answers," Carter said. "We have reviewed millions of pages of documents, conducted interviews, and held hearings to be met with nothing but road blocks and misleading statements in regards to what happened to the Lois Lerner emails. It seems that the only way to ensure the rogue IRS is not able to target individuals is to completely prohibit their ability to collect any information about the identity of donors who contribute to an organization. Americans should not and will not live in fear that their privacy will be violated or that they will be targeted by their own government for their political views. This legislation ensures the beliefs of all Americans are protected." Carter is a leader in the fight to rein in the IRS. Last year, Carter called for the removal of IRS Commissioner John Koskinen from his position. Later this week, Carter will join his colleagues on the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform in considering legislation to condemn and censure Commissioner Koskinen for failing to comply with a subpoena and allowing key evidence to be destroyed, failing to truthfully testify under oath and providing false and misleading information to Congress, and failing to notify Congress that key evidence was missing.
06.10.2016	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (Ga-01) voted today to prevent a bailout in Puerto Rico, a territory of the United States. "Due to years of mismanagement and financial abuse, Puerto Rico is in crisis and time is running out," Carter said. "Billions of dollars in debt, the government could soon fail to provide even basic humanitarian services to its citizens like keeping schools and public hospitals open. At no fault of their own, Americans on the island are suffering and hardworking citizens here at home will soon be left to pick up the tab. I say enough is enough. We must act now to turn the tide because it is unacceptable to use even one cent of taxpayer dollars to bailout decades of an inefficient state-run economy. I refuse to sit idly when taxpayer dollars and the wellbeing of Americans are on the line." The House passed H.R. 5278, the Puerto Rico Oversight, Management and Economic Stability Act, with Carter's support. The legislation uses no taxpayer funds and will prevent a bailout by: creating an Oversight Board to bring solvency to Puerto Rico; establishing a restructuring process that ensures creditors priorities are respected throughout the process; and, implementing pro-growth reforms to expand opportunity and streamline energy and infrastructure development. In the fight to protect taxpayer dollars and ensure there is no bailout at any time, Carter is a cosponsor of H.R. 5276, the No Bailouts for State, Territory, and Local Governments Act. H.R. 5276 prohibits the use of federal funds to bail out any state, territory, or municipal government that is bankrupt or at risk of default.
05.26.2016	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (Ga-01) discussed opioid addiction and prescription drug abuse on C-SPAN's Washington Journal as a member of the House-Senate Conference Committee to resolve differences over the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act. During the segment, Carter answered questions from live callers and shared the gravity of this epidemic from the perspective of the only pharmacist in Congress: "The leading cause of accidental death now in America is opioid abuse, it’s drug abuse, and it’s surpassed car accidents as the leading cause of death and it’s something that has evolved into an epidemic. "What is happening is they are going from opioid addiction to heroin addiction. Heroin is actually more valuable and cheaper in many areas than the opioids. Representative Hal Rogers from Kentucky sponsors a prescription drug abuse conference in Atlanta every year, he’s done it for the last five or six years, and now he’s added on prescription drug abuse and heroin abuse. That’s how bad it’s become." He went on to discuss the addictive nature of opioids and the need for alternative medications: "Opioids are such an addictive class. You can become addicted to opioids in almost no time. We’ve had instances of people who have just gone to have a dental procedure and been prescribed an opioid and all of sudden they're addicted to it after a short period of time. "There is a void between ibuprofen acetaminophen, the pain relievers you can get without a prescription, and the opioids. Once you get past tramadol there’s not a whole lot there for us to use. "I have seen miracles, literally miracles, in drugs. I’ve seen us go from antibiotics that were at one time when I first started practicing in the early 80’s you had to take 40 tablets over a 10-day period. Now you can take 5 tablets in 4 days or 6 tablets in 5 days and you’re done. We can treat illnesses and diseases with medications now thanks to the research and development that has been done by the pharmaceutical companies that before we couldn’t do. Look at Hepatitis C, we’ve cured it with medication. That’s phenomenal and for that reasoning I feel like the pharmaceutical companies have a responsibility to help us with this problem. We need something besides the opioids, we need them to fill in that void and I’m confident they can do it because I’ve seen them perform miracles throughout my career." Click here to view the full interview.
05.25.2016	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (Ga-01) discussed the long wait times at TSA security check points on Fox Business Network's CAVUTO: Coast to Coast today. Click here to view or download the interview.
05.25.2016	Today, Representatives Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-GA) and Mark DeSaulnier (D-CA) introduced legislation to better inform patients, doctors, and pharmacists on prescription drug dispensing. The Empowering Pharmacists in the Fight Against Opioid Abuse Act, H.R. 5314, would require federal agencies to improve training programs and materials to better educate pharmacists and health professionals on the circumstances under which they are allowed by law to decline to fill a prescription for a controlled substance. Such circumstances include the suspicion of fraudulency, forgery, or other forms of alteration. "As a community pharmacist for more than thirty years, I know firsthand that the fight against prescription drug abuse is a team effort and pharmacists play a critical role. In many cases, pharmacists are the last line of defense against patients plagued with addiction or interested in wrongdoing. Pharmacists not only have a legal, but a moral obligation to decline filling a prescription if there are concrete reasons to do so and this legislation will ensure this is possible by providing pharmacists and health care professionals with the tools they need when faced with this situation. I want to thank Representative DeSaulnier for working with me on the fight against prescription drug abuse and I am confident that together we will combat this epidemic once and for all." said Representative Carter. “As a longtime advocate of measures to curb the rise of prescription drug abuse, I understand the vital role that pharmacists play as our ‘last line of defense’ against those who seek to abuse the system. Pharmacists must use their professional judgement when deciding to fill a prescription. However, it is not always clear when they can legally decline to dispense controlled substances based on reasonable suspicions. Our commonsense measure creates a much needed framework for pharmacists to know when, how, and if they can deny a prescription. I want to thank Representative Carter for reaching across the aisle to partner with me to help address a complex issue that continues to touch the lives of millions of Americans and their families,” said Representative DeSaulnier. The bill would require the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), in consultation with other federal agencies, to establish programs and materials to train pharmacists, health care providers, and patients on best practices that ensure controlled substances are only dispensed when there is a valid prescription that is issued for a legitimate medical purpose. Prescription drug abuse is a national epidemic. In fact, Americans currently make up only 5% of the world’s population, but consume more than 80% of the worlds opioids. Last week, aCarter/DeSaulnier measure to expand multi-state drug monitoring programs was included in a comprehensive opioid abuse package passed by the U.S. House of Representatives.
05.24.2016	The United States House of Representatives acted today to advance Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter's (Ga-01) legislation to allow the expansion of the Fort Frederica National Monument on St. Simons Island. The House Committee on Natural Resources held a hearing on Carter's legislation paving the way for passage out of the Committee leading to consideration by the full House. Carter's legislation, H.R. 3480, will increase the maximum number of acres that may be included in the monument from 250 acres to 525 acres. Due to current statute, legislation is required to expand the authorized boundary and remove the 250-acre ceiling established by Congress in 1958. During the hearing, Carter spoke on the importance of the legislation. "Today, Fort Frederica National Monument is a popular destination in Glynn County, featuring portions of the original fort, excavated remains of the town's foundations, a museum, and extensive hiking trails," Carter said. "H.R. 3480 would authorize the National Park Service to obtain adjacent land that likely contains artifacts from prehistoric human settlements." Carter also noted the support for this legislation from the community. "A portion of this land authorized by the bill is currently held in trust by Saint Simons Land Trust, a 501-C3 stewarding the property," Carter said. "I am pleased to say that this bill has the support of the full Georgia delegation, the Glynn County Administration, the Brunswick-Golden Isles Chamber of Commerce, and the Glynn County Board of Eduction." After the hearing, Ben Slade, Executive Director of the St. Simons Land Trust highlighted the need for the legislation and praised Carter for his work. "The Saint Simons Land Trust was very willing to protect this property from development which would have forever altered the ambience of a great community and national resource,"Slade said. "We appreciate Congressman Carter’s authorship of this legislation that will allow the trust to be reimbursed for some of the cost of holding this land in trust for the National Park Service. We are excited to see this legislation advance through the House." The areas being assessed by the National Park Service for inclusion in the Fort Frederica National Monument are within the direct viewshed of the park including, the fort, King’s magazine, tabby ruins of soldiers’ barracks, and other trails. The areas were once used by the British Town of Frederica founded in 1736 by General James Edward Oglethorpe. Based on archival data and a reconnaissance study, there is a high potential that the remains of a colonial cannon battery, Point Battery, exists within the southern area. The northern area is believed to have been used as a campground for troops in 1743. Click here to see Carter's full testimony on H.R. 3480.
05.19.2016	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (Ga-01) supported legislation today which provides $30.9 million to support a new hangar bay at Moody Air Force Base in Valdosta, Georgia, to expand the combat search and rescue missions at the base. Combat search and rescue missions are a critical component of the 23d Wing, the Air Combat Command wing currently stationed at Moody. These missions find and rescue service members in or near combat zones and are performed by a force of helicopters, ground-attack aircraft and aerial refueling tankers. Moody supports all three aircrafts in the form of HH-60 Pavehawks, the A-10 Thunderbolt, and the HC-130 J Combat King II. "When the brave men and women who put their lives on the line for our nation need help the most, the 23d Wing steps in," Carter said. "The safety of our troops should always be our top priority and we must ensure the 23d Wing has the tools they need to save lives. This new hangar will provide much needed additional capacity to help ensure this critical mission is prepared when needed. Additionally, this hangar space will provide expansion space to further future mission capabilities and the growth of the great work done at Moody." The funding is part of the the Fiscal Year 2017 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations bill which passed the House today with Carter's support. The legislation provides $81.6 billion in discretionary funding to house, train, and equip military personnel, provide housing and services to military families, and help maintain base infrastructure. The bill also funds veterans' benefits and programs. Carter represents Moody Air Force Base in the United States House of Representatives.
05.18.2016	The United States House of Representatives greenlit a program vital to the future of Naval Submarine Base Kings Bay by beginning construction on the next generation of submarines. Construction is set to begin on a new class of 12 ballistic missile submarines (SSBNs) which will one day replace the existing Ohio-class SSBNs such as those currently homeported at the base. Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (Ga-01), who represents Kings Bay and Camden County in Congress, has been a leader in the fight for the replacement program. He recently testified about the indispensable national security importance of the existing SSBN fleet and the need to expedite their replacement. "This legislation is critical to ensure there are no interruptions in future missions at Kings Bay due to a gap in the retirement of the Ohio-class submarines and their replacement,"Carter said. "We are facing increasingly dangerous and uncertain threats and the submarines stationed at Kings Bay play an important role in our nuclear deterrence. We must ensure Kings Bay has the opportunity to remain the elite home to the Atlantic ballistic submarine fleet and this legislation sets the stage to ensure this can happen." The Fiscal Year 2017 National Defense Authorization Act passed the House today with Carter's support. The NDAA is the primary way Congress meets its most important constitutional obligations to "provide for the common defense." The legislation sets defense policy for the year and offers a $610.5 billion defense spending blueprint. The legislation increases troop pay and benefits, supports missions to defeat ISIS, and restores the readiness of our military.
05.18.2016	The U.S. House of Representatives has adopted legislation which, among other things, ensures TRICARE beneficiaries are able to use the pharmacy of their choice. Currently, the Pilot Program from Prescription Drug Acquisition Costs for TRICARE benefits is able to be used by TRICARE beneficiaries for prescription drugs filled at retail pharmacies. Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (Ga-01) sponsored an amendment to the House-passed National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) to ensure small pharmacies are included in the program. "As a community pharmacist for more than thirty years, I viewed my customers as family and believed they should be able to use any pharmacy they wished," Carter said. "TRICARE beneficiaries should be no different and, for some in rural areas, there is limited access to pharmacy services. Our service members, veterans, and their families deserve the best possible treatment and this includes access to the pharmacy of their choice, whether large or small." The NDAA is the primary way Congress meets its most important constitutional obligations to "provide for the common defense." The legislation sets defense policy for the year and offers a $610.5 billion defense spending blueprint. The legislation increases troop pay and benefits, supports missions to defeat ISIS, and restores the readiness of our military.
05.18.2016	The United States House of Representatives passed legislation today to protect the A-10 Thunderbolt. The Fiscal Year 2017 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) prohibits the A-10 from being retired or placed in storage. Additionally, the legislation requires the Air Force to maintain a minimum of 171 A-10 aircrafts designated as primary mission aircraft inventory and prohibits the Secretary of the Air Force from making any significant reductions to manning levels with respect to any A-10 aircraft squadron or division until reports are submitted to Congress on the comparison examining the capabilities of the A-10 and the F-35. Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (GA-01), who represents Moody Air Force Base in Congress, has been a leader in the fight to protect the A-10. During budget discussions, Carter testified on the importance of the A-10 Thunderbolt to our national security. "This is a big win in the fight to ensure our troops have the vital close air support they need for the dangerous challenges they face today," Carter said. "The NDAA passed today will ensure the A-10 can keep flying without facing any premature attempts at retirement without a viable alternative to take its place. The A-10 is battle tested in the fight against ISIS and critical to protecting our troops on the ground. The safety of our troops must be our top priority and I am pleased this legislation has made sure of this today." The Fiscal Year 2017 National Defense Authorization Act passed the House today with Carter's support. The NDAA is the primary way Congress meets its most important constitutional obligations to "provide for the common defense." The legislation sets defense policy for the year and offers a $610.5 billion defense spending blueprint. The legislation increases troop pay and benefits, supports missions to defeat ISIS, and restores the readiness of our military.
05.18.2016	The U.S. House of Representatives has adopted legislation which, among other things, provides for the long sought relocation of the Saint Marys Airport. Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (R-Ga) sponsored an amendment to the House-passed National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) providing $6 million to allow for the move. The airport has long created security concerns for Naval Submarine Base Kings Bay. For the first time, however, the Department of Defense has signaled it was willing to assume a portion of the costs associated with the transfer. "Kings Bay is not only a vital strategic asset for our national security but an economic engine for our area,” Carter said. "The legislation passed today will relieve these security concerns while releasing the City of Saint Marys from financial hardship associated with relocating the airport to a more suitable location. While this is an important move, it is only the first step and I pledge to work with the community to bring a new general aviation airport online as soon as possible." If signed in to law, the amended legislation would authorize the Department of Defense to use the funding to free the City of Saint Marys from financial obligations to the Federal Aviation Administration. The city would otherwise be required to pay financial penalties for past improvements at the existing facility. The NDAA is the primary way Congress meets its most important constitutional obligations to "provide for the common defense." The legislation sets defense policy for the year and offers a $610.5 billion defense spending blueprint. The legislation increases troop pay and benefits, supports missions to defeat ISIS, and restores the readiness of our military.
05.18.2016	Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (Ga-01) joined a bipartisan majority in the House of Representatives to approve immediate funding to prevent the spread of the mosquito-borne Zika virus in the United States. The legislation will stop the virus at its source by funding mosquito control at home and abroad, helps get vaccines and diagnostic tests online quickly and safely, and provides funds to states to care for mothers and infants with Zika. "Without action, this public health crisis will continue to spread putting all Georgians at risk,” said Carter.“I am committed to providing authorities with the resources necessary to protect the public and combat this disease at its source. This legislation allows work to begin immediately on proven methods while giving the Administration time to produce a more comprehensive plan that we have been waiting on for months.” While the Obama Administration has requested $1.9 billion to combat Zika, it has failed to provide any justification or action plan for the funding despite repeated calls from Congress. The legislation passed by the House provides provides $622.1 million for the Department of Health and Human Services, the State Department, and USAID to fight and prevent the spread of the Zika virus. The funding would be available immediately and is entirely offset. Additionally, H.R. 5243 contains strong oversight measures to ensure responsible use of taxpayer dollars. Carter pledged to work on a bipartisan basis for additional funding as needed once a more specific action plan is provided. “We are in the middle of the regular appropriations process which gives us an opportunity to consider a longer-term approach through regular order,” he said. “I for one am not for writing blank checks under the guise of a crisis without some accountability as to how taxpayer dollars are going to be used.”
05.17.2016	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (Ga-01) has earned an appointment to serve on the House-Senate Conference Committee to resolve differences over the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act. In announcing the appointment, Speaker of the House Paul Ryan praised Carter for his experience as a pharmacist and his commitment to advancing reforms to end prescription drug abuse. "As the only pharmacist in Congress, Buddy's insight will be invaluable to this Conference Committee," Speaker Ryan said. "He has been on the front lines for more than thirty years working to combat prescription drug abuse and he has wasted no time taking up that fight in Congress. I look forward to working with Congressman Carter to find an agreement that will end this epidemic once and for all." As a member of the Conference Committee, Carter will be charged with addressing and finding solutions to nearly every facet of the opioid epidemic facing America today. "I am excited and honored to participate in the Conference Committee," Carter said. "As a pharmacist for more than thirty years, I was blessed to watch prescription medication save lives. At the same time, I have watched firsthand as addiction to them ruined careers, families, and lives. I viewed battling prescription drug abuse as a very important part of my professional duty as a pharmacist and I have carried that mission with me to the United States House of Representatives. I am ready to work with my colleagues to find an effective agreement to address this issue. Together, we can and will overcome this crisis." Carter is the only pharmacist in the United States Congress and has been a leader in the fight against prescription drug abuse. As a member of the Georgia General Assembly, Carter authored the Georgia Prescription Drug Monitoring Program. Recently, Carter participated in the National Prescription Drug Abuse and Heroin Summit in Atlanta, authored this article to create solutions to the epidemic, and voted in support of the House Amendment to S. 524, the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act.
05.16.2016	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (Ga-01) is leading the charge to oppose the Obama Administration's threat to take legal action or deny federal funds to school districts that do not allow students to use any bathroom regardless of gender. In a letter to President Obama led by Carter, 39 Members of Congress from across the nation expressed their extreme concerns with the directive and asked that the president rescind his "poorly executed threat to school districts across the county and reaffirm their right to govern themselves as they see fit within the bounds of the law." The delegation wrote, "To date, neither statute nor legal precedent has extended civil rights protections based on gender identity. Furthermore your actions threaten to infringe on the constitutional right of Congress to appropriate funds. We view this as an effort to implement your Administration’s political agenda outside the bounds of the law and against the will of the American people. We insist that you withdraw this legally unfounded threat immediately." Click here to view the letter.
05.13.2016	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (Ga-01) acted today to address and end the opioid epidemic in the United States. The House passed the House Amendment to S. 524, the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act, with Carter's support, combining 18 bills previously passed in the House this week to create a comprehensive strategy to address and prevent prescription drug abuse. "Our nation is facing an opioid epidemic and no community is safe," said Carter. "As the only pharmacist in Congress, I have witnessed and participated in some of the greatest advancements in the history of medicine. I have been blessed to watch prescription medication save lives. However, at the same time, I have watched firsthand as addiction to them ruined careers, families and lives. Everyday 78 Americans are dying from an opioid overdose and there is no time to waste. While there is no easy solution to this epidemic, I am very proud that the House passed this legislation this week to address almost every facet of the opioid epidemic. Together, we can and will overcome this health crisis." Carter is the only pharmacist in the United States Congress and has been a leader in the fight against prescription drug abuse. As a member of the Georgia General Assembly, Carter authored the Georgia Prescription Drug Monitoring Program. Recently, Carter participated in the National Prescription Drug Abuse and Heroin Summit in Atlanta, authored this article to create solutions to the epidemic, and delivered this speech on the floor of the United States House of Representatives.
05.13.2016	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed a package of bipartisan bills aimed at addressing the opioid abuse crisis including H.R. 5046, the Comprehensive Opioid Abuse Reduction Act. This bill authorizes $103 million in grants to states for programs aimed at providing substance abuse treatment. Included in the bill is a bipartisan measure introduced by Representatives Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (R-GA) and Mark DeSaulnier (D-CA) to allow grant funding to be used for the development of interoperable multi-state Prescription Drug Monitoring Programs (PDMPs). Georgia and California are among the states utilizing PDMPs. “As a lifelong pharmacist and the author of the Georgia Prescription Drug Monitoring Program, I know firsthand that Prescription Drug Monitoring Programs are key to fighting prescription drug abuse in America,” said Representative Carter. “To increase the effectiveness of these programs, states must be able to work together. Unfortunately, today, most states are not interoperable and that is why this amendment is so important. States should have every opportunity to share information effectively and efficiently about patients and the patterns that occur with interstate prescription drug trafficking. I thank Representative Sensenbrenner for the underlying legislation and Representative DeSaulnier for working with me to ensure Prescription Drug Monitoring Programs are as effective as possible.” “Prescription drug abuse is an epidemic that impacts families and communities across our country. By tracking the sale and purchase of prescription drugs both within and between states we can greatly reduce ‘doctor shopping.’ Drug addiction is a preventable disease, and I am proud to have championed legislation as a state senator to fully implement California’s existing PDMP that has successfully registered over 200,000 prescribers and dispensers. On a national level, our bipartisan measure will bolster new and existing PDMPs by helping to develop multi-state monitoring programs to prevent addicts from crossing state lines to fill prescriptions. I thank Representative Buddy Carter for working with me to improve the effectiveness of one of the most important tools in the fight against opioid abuse,” said Representative DeSaulnier. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), prescription drug abuse has risen to epidemic proportions over the last decade. It is estimated that 78 Americans die every day from an opioid overdose. The bipartisan package of bills, including H.R. 5046, now moves to a House and Senate conference committee.
05.12.2016	Today, United States District Judge Rosemary Collyer ruled in favor of House Republicans in a lawsuit against the Obama administration’s use of taxpayer funds for Obamacare. In the ruling, Judge Collyer ruled that it is unconstitutional for the administration to use federal funds to make payments to insurance companies under Obamacare without an appropriation from Congress. Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (GA-01) released the following statement in reaction to the ruling: “This is a big win for hardworking American taxpayers and the protection of the Constitution. The Obama Administration has spent billions of dollars to keep Obamacare afloat without authority from Congress. Our Founding Fathers clearly designated spending authority to Congress and the blatant trampling of the Constitution and disregard for the separation of powers cannot continue. “While we are still fighting the battle to repeal and replace this disastrous law that is ruining the healthcare system I love and worked in for more than 30 years, I hope the ruling today serves as a wakeup call to the administration. Obamacare is broken and a waste of hard earned taxpayer dollars and it must go.”
05.05.2016	U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson, R-Ga., and David Perdue, R-Ga., along with Representatives Earl L. "Buddy" Carter, Ga.-01,Sanford Bishop, Ga.-02, Lynn Westmoreland, Ga.-03, Hank Johnson, Ga.-04, Rob Woodall, Ga.-07, Austin Scott, Ga.-08, Jody Hice, Ga.-10, Rick Allen, Ga.-12, David Scott, Ga.-13, and Tom Graves, Ga.-14,called on the Department of Labor today to expedite its backlog of H-2A labor visa applications of Georgia farmers before irreparable damage occurs. The Department of Labor has failed to approve H-2A visa applications submitted by Georgia farmers leaving farmers across the state without sufficient labor.The specialty crop industry relies heavily on the H-2A visa program to grow and harvest more than 20 different types of fruits and vegetables. Without labor through the H-2A visa program, the industry will be unable to operate at full capacity. In a letter to United States Department of Labor Secretary Thomas Perez, the delegation wrote, "It has come to our attention that the Department of Labor has accumulated a significant backlog of H-2A visa labor applications. This backlog has placed Georgia's fruit and vegetable industry, as well as our state's rural communities, in jeopardy. We ask that necessary steps be taken to expedite these applications so Georgia farmers can continue to provide their products to American consumers." The specialty crop industry contributes $4.5 billion in total economic impact and provides over 31,000 jobs throughout the state. The specialty crops in Georgia include Vidalia onions, blueberries and pecans. Please click here to view the letter sent to Secretary Perez.
04.28.2016	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (Ga-01) voted today to ensure Americans are able to access affordable retirement advice. H. J. Res. 88, the Protecting Access to Affordable Retirement Advice Act, passed the United States House of Representatives today with Carter's support and will prevent the Department of Labor's controversial "fiduciary" rule from going into effect. The rule finalized in April alters the definition of a "fiduciary" making it harder for low- and middle- income families to save for retirement. "It is unacceptable that the Obama Administration is threatening the retirement security that hardworking Americans deserve," Carter said. "Middle class families will be hit the hardest by this misguided rule. It will hurt those who need the most help planning for retirement and could even leave many unable to save for retirement at all." The Department of Labor's rule will also make it significantly more difficult for small businesses to seek the investment advice they need to provide for their employees to plan and save for retirement. "Having owned and operated community pharmacies for nearly thirty years, I take pride in having provided my employees with the tools they needed to achieve financial independence," Carter said. "One of the most important tools in this effort were retirement invest plans so they could save to retire comfortably and now this is under attack. Like many small business owners, I consider my employees part of my family and that is why H. J. Res. 88 is so important. I know what cutting off this resource could mean for hard working Americans and their families and I refuse to let that happen." Carter is a member of the Committee on Education and the Workforce and has been a leader in the effort to block implementation of the "fiduciary" rule.
03.23.2016	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (Ga-01) released the following statement today after voting in support of H. Res. 658 condemning the terrorist attacks in Brussels: “The horrific attacks in Brussels yesterday were an attack on all of us and I am honored to stand with the House today to condemn these actions in the strongest possible sense. As we pray for the victims and their families, we must stand united with the people of Belgium and the rest of our allies to once and for all rid the earth of the scourge that is radical Islamic terrorism. The evils of ISIS will continue to spread until we finally destroy violent extremism at its core.” Carter is a member of the House Committee on Homeland Security and has been at the forefront of Congressional action to counter violent extremism.
03.16.2016	Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (GA-01) testified before the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense to highlight the need to support the Kings Bay Naval Submarine Base in St. Marys during fiscal year 2017 budget discussions. CLICK HERE TO VIEW CARTER'S TESTIMONY Carter testifies on the importance of First District military installations before House Appropriations Committee After highlighting the unique military footprint in the First District of Georgia, Carter requested that the House Appropriations Committee consider a replacement to the Ohio-class submarine during this year's budget discussions to prevent a gap in the retirement of the Ohio-class boats and their replacement. "Our district is home to the Naval Submarine Base Kings Bay, the port for the Atlantic ballistic missile submarine fleet, which will soon reach the end of its life cycle," said Carter. "For this reason, I have submitted a programmatic request in support of the Ohio Replacement Program with the intent to maintain the development timeline." To view Carter's full testimony before the House Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, please click here.
03.16.2016	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (Ga-01) recently announced the winners of the 2016 Congressional Art Competition at Armstrong State University. Each spring, a nation-wide high school arts competition is sponsored by the United States House of Representatives as an opportunity to recognize and encourage the artistic talent across the nation. Since the creation of the competition in 1982, over 650,000 high school students have been involved with the nation-wide competition. "I am thrilled so many students participate in the Congressional Art Competition every year," Carter said. "This is a wonderful opportunity to encourage and recognize the artistic talents of young constituents in the First District. I am extremely impressed with all the entries this year. Congratulations to the winners and thank you to all who participated!" The 2016 winner of the Congressional Art Competition for the First District of Georgia is Joey Belsma from South Effingham High School. Her artwork will be displayed for one year in the United States Capitol. Click here to view or download a high-res version of this photo Congressman Carter with Congressional Art Competition winner Joey Belsma Two additional winning pieces of art by Kashta Dozier-Muhammad from Savannah Arts Academy and Caleb Sanker from Bradwell Institute will be displayed in Carter's offices. Click here to view or download a high-res version of this photo Congressman Carter with Caleb Sanker Click here to view or download a high-res version of this photo Congressman Carter with Kashta Dozier-Muhammad
03.16.2016	Today, Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (GA-01) testified before the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense to request support for operations at Moody Air Force Base in Lowndes County, including the A-10 fleet operated by the 23d Wing, during fiscal year 2017 budget discussions. CLICK HERE TO VIEW CARTER'S FULL TESTIMONY Carter testifies on the importance of First District military installations before House Appropriations Committee Before the subcommittee, Carter testified on the importance of the A-10 Thunderbolt to our national security and asked for full funding for the fleet in the fiscal year 2017 Defense Appropriations bill. "A-10s have been providing critical close air support (CAS) for our ground troops since they first entered service in the 1970s," Carter said. "The combination of capabilities and its survivability against defensive platforms allows A-10s to continue to play a major role in air campaigns. That’s why I am supporting full funding for the operations of the A-10 fleet. " To view Carter's full testimony before the House Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, please click here.
03.16.2016	Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (Ga-01) released the following statement today after President Obama nominated federal appeals court judge Merrick Garland to the Supreme Court of the United States: “For eight years, President Obama and his administration have ignored the Constitution, the rule of law and the balance of power. Confirming a nominee from this Administration could fundamentally alter the balance of the court with someone who shares that view. The next Justice could have a bigger impact on our political process than the next President. I strongly support Senate leadership’s decision to wait to confirm a new Supreme Court Justice until a new President takes office next year and urge them to stand strong in their decision. “Rather than railroading through a last minute appointment, let’s put this to the American people. I hope each candidate for President will put forward what they are looking for in a judge or the kind of person they would nominate. Then let the American people decide at the ballot box.”
03.16.2016	Representative Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (Ga-01), along with Representatives Sanford Bishop (Ga-02), Lynn Westmoreland (Ga-03), Hank Johnson (Ga-04), John Lewis (Ga-05), Rob Woodall (Ga-06), Austin Scott (Ga-08), Doug Collins (Ga-09), Jody Hice (Ga-10), Barry Loudermilk (Ga-11), Rick Allen (Ga-12), David Scott (Ga-13), and Tom Graves (Ga-14) urged the House Appropriations Committee to prioritize funding for the construction of the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project, known as SHEP, in the fiscal year 2017 budget process. In a letter to Chairman Mike Simpson and Ranking Member Marcy Kaptur of the House Appropriations Committee Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies, the Georgia congressional delegation recommended that the committee allocate the funding needed to keep the project on budget and on time. While the President only requested $42.7 million for SHEP in his fiscal year 2017 budget proposal, according to the Army Corps of Engineers’ current construction plan, if the federal government fails to provide at least $80-$100 million a year to the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project for fiscal years 2017-2020, the project cannot be completed on time and the resulting delays will cost taxpayers hundreds of millions of dollars. The delegation noted, "a partially completed channel deepening project provides zero value to the nation. If the rate of SHEP's construction were to continue at the rate reflected in the FY 2017 request, the completion of SHEP would be delayed by at least five years and USACE estimates that the delay would add well over $100 million to the project construction cost. Combined with the multi-year loss of the $174 million in annual economic benefits, the total cost of under-funding SHEP is a staggering and unrecoverable loss of nearly $1 billion." Background: The Savannah Harbor Expansion Project was authorized in the Water Resources and Development Act of 1999 to deepen the Savannah River from its current 42-foot depth to as much as 47 feet. The project is being undertaken in anticipation of an expansion of the Panama Canal that will increase the maximum draft of vessels traveling to and from the East Coast from 39.5 feet to as much as 50 feet. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers estimates that the harbor deepening project will bring $174 million in annual net benefits to the United States. For the Post-Panamax II vessels, the extra five feet of depth will allow for an additional 3,600 cargo containers in each transit, an increase of 78 percent. The deepening project will cost approximately $706 million, including construction and environmental mitigation costs. The federal government has a role in funding this project because the U.S. Constitution gives authority over navigable waters. Dredging for the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project began on September 14, 2015.
02.25.2016	Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (Ga-01) released the following statement today regarding the passing of State Representative Bob Bryant of Garden City: "This is a great loss for our area. Bob was a true public servant who worked everyday for his constituents. He was a politician who truly made a difference for the people he represented. The first bill I passed in the Georgia State Legislature was with Bob. It was an honor to serve with him in the Georgia State Capitol and I will miss my friend. My prayers are with Lee and their family."
02.25.2016	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (Ga-01) joined colleagues in the United States House of Representatives in sending a letter led by Congressman Barry Loudermilk (Ga-11) to Senator Mitch McConnell (R-Ky) requesting that the Senate postpones any confirmation of a Supreme Court Justice until after the inauguration of our next president. "The nomination of the next Supreme Court Justice has the potential to have a bigger impact on our nation than the presidential election," Carter said. "The American people deserve to make this critical decision and that can only be done after they choose the next President of the United States. In the coming months and years, the Supreme Court will make decisions on issues that will have an impact on all Americans and I am proud to join my colleagues in calling on Senator McConnell to postpone the confirmation of any Supreme Court Justice until we have new leadership in the White House." Full text of the letter to Senator McConnell: Dear Senator McConnell, The tragic death of Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia on February 13, 2016 has not only left a vacancy on the bench of the nation’s highest court, it has ushered in a time of great decision for you and the members of the Senate. The passing of this great scholar has shrouded America in mourning, and as one of the last originalists in our judicial branch, this vacancy will undoubtedly be extremely difficult to fill. The Senate is now faced with the Constitutional responsibility to confirm a potential successor – one armed with the highest integrity, exemplary character, and most noble commitment to the pursuit of justice within the confines of the limited powers prescribed to the judicial branch by our Constitution. This is a time of great deliberation for our nation as culturally, we are facing an era of determining the legal basis of our greatest congressional priorities: civil rights, freedom of speech, freedom of religion, right to privacy, government responsibility, the balance of power, and the very right to life itself. While some argue that this untimely vacancy creates a Constitutional crisis between the executive and legislative branches, we believe that our nation has already been in such a crisis, evidenced by frequent acts of executive overreach by the administration. It is undeniable that the critical decisions facing our nation’s highest court will have a lasting impact on future generations of Americans. And whereas Congress has made it a priority to reestablish the balance of Constitutional authority, we must not be rushed into this critical decision for political expediency, nor for the sake of the President’s political legacy. Therefore, we the undersigned stand with you in your commitment to postpone any confirmation of a Supreme Court Justice until after the inauguration of our next President. Your forethought to allow the nation to pause, assess, and elect a new President has rightfully given voice to the people, to whom we are responsible as elected officials. Please click here to view the letter.
02.23.2016	Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (Ga-01) released the following statement today regarding the Obama administration’s plan to close the detention facility at Guantanamo Bay: “The Obama administration’s announcement today proves the White House is willing to jeopardize the national security of the United States for a campaign promise. The detainees he hopes to bring to American soil are the worst of the worst. Not only is this unacceptable, President Obama’s own Attorney General and military leaders have said it is illegal to bring detainees from the facility at Guantanamo to the United States. Instead of continuing to underestimate the threat of radical Islamic terrorists and focusing on relocating or releasing these jihadist enemies, the President should be focused on destroying the threat to our homeland. He is living in an alternate universe if he believes released detainees will not return to the battlefield as many before them already have. This plan, which fails to include critical details like the exact location of where the detainees will be transferred, will do nothing more than increase this very real threat against the safety of our nation and it will not stand.”
02.10.2016	Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (Ga-01) released the following statement today regarding the Supreme Court’s decision to halt a controversial energy rule proposed in the Obama Administration’s climate agenda: “The Supreme Court’s decision to halt this assault on coal is a win for working American families. The so-called ‘Clean Power Plan’ sets unrealistic standards on energy generators and forces them to rely on technology that does not even exist. The Obama Administration’s unrealistic attempt to further its own climate agenda at the expense of jobs and our economy is completely unacceptable. This rule should be eliminated permanently before it destroys all coal fired power plants leaving those who can afford it the least with the burden of increased energy costs.” Independent forecasts estimate the Obama Administration’s controversial energy rule would increase energy costs by $479 billion for American consumers. In June, Carter joined a bipartisan majority of the House in passing the Ratepayer Protection Act to shield working Americans from the costs of implementing the plan.
02.09.2016	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (Ga-01) released the following statement today on the release of the President’s Fiscal Year 2017 Budget Request. “While disappointing, it comes as no surprise that President Obama’s final budget provides no plan to help American taxpayers or balance the budget. Even by increasing taxes by $3.4 trillion and spending by $2.5 trillion over the next decade, the budget released today confirms the deplorable reality that this president will leave office never providing a budget that balances. Instead, this budget will do nothing more than increase burdens on hardworking Americans by failing to enact any true spending reforms to rein in Washington’s spending addiction. It is past time to cut up the credit cards and institute true fiscal solutions to grow our economy and create a better future for our children and grandchildren. While this irresponsible wish list will do neither, we are already working in the United States House of Representatives to provide meaningful solutions that will.”
02.09.2016	U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson, R-Ga., and David Perdue, R-Ga., along with U.S. Representative Earl L. “Buddy” Carter, R-Ga.-01, today demanded answers from the Obama administration on its failure to include adequate levels of critical funding for the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project in the president’s fiscal year 2017 budget request to Congress, released earlier today. According to the Army Corps of Engineers’ current construction plan, if the federal government fails to provide at least $80-$100 million a year to the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project, known as SHEP, for fiscal years 2017-2020, the project cannot be completed on time and the resulting delays will cost taxpayers hundreds of millions of dollars. The Obama administration’s budget request released today includes $42.7 million for the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project for fiscal year 2017, which begins Oct. 1, 2016. The administration also added another $24.32 million for the project for the current fiscal year (fiscal year 2016), thanks in part to additional funds that Congress appropriated for the overall Corps’ budget. In an October 2015 letter to Office of Management and Budget Director Shaun Donovan, the Georgia congressional delegation explained why it is critical that the administration include at least $100 million a year in federal funding for SHEP so the project can stay on track, avoid cost overruns and prevent timing setbacks. “I am extremely disappointed that the president is shortchanging a critical infrastructure project such as SHEP while instead spending $300 billion on new ‘green’ projects and levying a new oil tax on hardworking families,” Senator Isakson said. “The administration has inflicted irresponsible cuts on the Army Corps of Engineers’ overall budget.” “Over the past 15 years, the Savannah Port has been the fastest-growing port in the country,” said Senator Perdue. “Completing the expansion of the harbor will have a dramatic economic impact not only on Georgia, but the entire country. This must remain a priority for the United States to compete globally and expand American made products into new markets.” “It is unacceptable and frustrating that the Obama administration has decided to ignore its commitment to SHEP,” said Representative Carter. “Failing to provide adequate funding for this critical project will result in delays and threaten to increase the cost to taxpayers. This project is essential for jobs and economic growth in the First District, the Southeast, and the entire nation and this administration must realize this truth and prioritize the project. This has been a long fight which is clearly not over and I will do everything in my power to ensure the federal government meets the commitment of the state.” The Obama administration's budget cuts the Army Corps of Engineers’ overall budget by 22 percent, including a 40 percent cut to the Corps’ construction account from the Congressionally-appropriated $1.86 billion to $1.1 billion. The vast majority of those downsized funds are going toward various conservation and environmental projections across the country rather than toward improving our country’s major infrastructure and transportation assets such as the Port of Savannah. Background: The Savannah Harbor Expansion Project was authorized in the Water Resources and Development Act of 1999 to deepen the Savannah River from its current 42-foot depth to as much as 48 feet. The project is being undertaken in anticipation of an expansion of the Panama Canal that will increase the maximum draft of vessels travelling to and from the East Coast from 39.5 feet to as much as 50 feet. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers estimates that the harbor deepening project will bring $174 million in annual net benefits to the United States. For the Post-Panamax II vessels, the extra five feet of depth will allow for an additional 3,600 cargo containers in each transit, an increase of 78 percent. The deepening project will cost approximately $706 million, including construction and environmental mitigation costs. The federal government has a role in funding this project because the U.S. Constitution gives authority over navigable waters. Dredging for the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project began on September 14, 2015.
02.03.2016	Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (Ga-01) released the following statement today after the Georgia Ports Authority’s Board of Directors announced that its Executive Director, Curtis J. Foltz, will step down after twelve years of service. “I want to thank Curtis for his tireless efforts over the last twelve years. The Ports of Savannah and Brunswick are critical economic drivers for our local economy and are responsible for hundreds of thousands of jobs in the First District of Georgia and across the state. This great responsibility requires confident leadership and Curtis has gone above and beyond during his time as Executive Director. I wish Mr. Foltz and his family the best in the future.” The Georgia Ports Authority’s Board of Directors also announced today that Chief Operating Officer, Griff Lynch, will succeed Foltz. “I welcome and congratulate Griff to the position. I am confident he will continue the important work for our ports and I look forward to working together.”
02.02.2016	Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (Ga-01) released the following statement today after voting to override the President’s veto of legislation to repeal Obamacare and defund Planned Parenthood. Carter voted in support of the Veto Override on the Restoring Americans’ Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act. The legislation failed to receive the two-thirds of votes necessary to override President Obama’s recent veto of the legislation. “It is a grave disappointment that the House could not garner enough votes to override the President’s veto of this critical legislation. Obamacare has destroyed the healthcare system I proudly worked in for more than thirty years. It’s past time to answer our fellow Americans who have seen an increase in their premiums and deductibles, lost their doctors, or lost their coverage completely because of this failed law. While today is a frustrating blow, I am heartened that there were more votes today in support of repeal than supported the original passage of Obamacare. I will remain vigilant and we will win the fight to eliminate Obamacare and put the free market back into our healthcare system. Americans deserve better and I urge my colleagues to join the fight.”
02.02.2016	Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (Ga-01) voted in support of legislation today to implement enhanced Congressional oversight over Iranian terrorism financiers. H.R. 3662, the Iran Terror Finance Transparency Act , blocks President Obama from offering sanctions relief to a financer until certifying that the entity is not dealing with terrorist organizations or has not conducted a significant transaction in support of Iran’s ballistic missile or conventional weapons programs. “Frankly, I wish we did not have to vote on this legislation today because the Obama Administration should not be lifting sanctions on Iran period,” Carter said. “Since President Obama finalized the nuclear deal with Iran, the regime has done nothing but show hostility and aggression towards the United States and we continue to see that aggression escalate. While I don’t believe this deal should move forward, it is critical Congress does everything in our power to ensure Americans are protected from this dangerous agreement made by this reckless administration. That is why it is important the House passed this legislation today to ensure sanctions relief is not going to fund terrorism.” Carter has raised concerns and fought for Congressional oversight throughout negotiations of the deal. In 2015, Carter voted to reject the nuclear deal with Iran. Additionally, Carter sent a bipartisan letter to President Obama with Representative Ed Royce (Ca-39), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, and 365 other House Members underscoring the “grave and urgent issues that have arisen” relating to the ongoing nuclear negotiations with Iran.
01.15.2016	Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter released the following statement after new reports that the Air Force is indefinitely freezing all plans to retire the A-10 Warthog. “It appears the Air Force is finally realizing that the A-10 is the only aircraft of its kind that can effectively accomplish its mission of protecting our troops while remaining close to the battlefield for any additional support that may be needed by ground troops. I have known this all along and have made it a mission to ensure the Air Force reverses their flawed attempts to retire the platform. As the Air Force deploys the A-10 fleet from Moody Air Force Base to fight ISIS overseas, I applaud the announcement that they will indefinitely delay retirement. The safety of our troops and our nation depends on it.” The A-10 provides Close Air Support and Combat Search-And-Rescue capability unmatched by any other aircraft in the Air Force’s inventory. No other fixed-wing airframes are as proficient as the A-10 in operating in rugged environments, low visibility, and very low altitudes. The A-10s, operated by the 23rd Wing, have been providing critical close air support (CAS) for our ground troops since they first entered service in the 1970s. It is this unique ability to perform effective close air support that has garnered the A-10 with high accolades in recent theatres of conflict, including Iraq and Afghanistan. Currently, A-10s are flying Close Air Support missions against ISIS advances. Carter, who represents Moody Air Force Base in Congress, has been a leader in the fight to preserve the A-10. Carter testified in front of the House Appropriations Committee earlier this year to highlight the importance of the A-10 to our national security and request full funding for the fleet. Carter also supported critical legislation to keep the A-10 flying.
01.13.2016	Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (Ga-01) voted today to halt the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) power grab with the Waters of the United States rule. The United States House of Representatives passed S. J. Res. 22 with Carter’s support to halt the rule which would allow the EPA to regulate nearly all waters in the United States, including many streams, creeks, wetlands, and ponds. “This rule is yet another example of the Obama Administration and the EPA encroaching on the American people in their own backyard,” Carter said. “If implemented, this rule would regulate driveway ditches, man-made ponds, and even watered lawns. Expanding EPA’s authority in this unprecedented way would be devastating to all land owners, especially farmers and small businesses. The legislation passed in the House today is critical to nullify this detrimental rule and ensure Americans maintain personal control over their property.”
01.12.2016	Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (GA-01) released the following statement in response to the President’s State of the Union Address tonight. VIDEO: Click here to view Carter's reaction to the 2016 State of the Union “I am again disappointed, but not surprised, that tonight’s speech was another missed opportunity from this President. I had hoped to hear a speech that would unite the country around a strategy to confront radical Islamic terror or a plan to put America back to work. Closing the prison at Guantanamo Bay and making it harder for Americans to enjoy their Second Amendment rights will do neither. Instead, we heard another partisan speech heavy on rhetoric and false promises while light on facts or concrete solutions. This failure of leadership will likely be the legacy left by the Obama Administration. “The challenges we face as a country are too grave to sit back and waste the next year on talking past each other. We in the House will focus on delivering positive solutions that make America safer, expand opportunity, and restore fiscal discipline. We will combat executive overreach and turn back the tide of bureaucratic encroachment on our liberties. We will continue our fight for a better America and I strongly encourage the President to work with Congress to do the same. His place in the history books, as well as the future our great nation, depends on it.” Please click here to view Carter's reaction to the 2016 State of the Union.
01.12.2016	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (Ga-01) today released the following prebuttal to President Obama's State of the Union address: VIDEO:Click here to view Carter's prebuttal "Tonight, during President Barack Obama’s final State of the Union Address to the American people, I hope to hear a call for unity and a desire to work with Congress during his last year in office for the greater good of our nation. "I hope to hear of plans to end the botched policies of this Administration that have harmed the American people and intruded further into our lives. The president should answer both Republicans and Democrats who sent legislation to finally get rid of the Obamacare train wreck to his desk allowing the opportunity for a more affordable healthcare system with better choices and care. Maybe President Obama will finally realize that the federal government does not belong in our children’s classrooms. The President should speak of how he will end his Administration’s endless assault on job creators and instead work to reduce the bureaucratic red tape that stands in their way. I would like to hear the president deliver a solution to address our nation’s out of control fiscal situation. It’s time to cut up the credit cards and it’s time for President Obama to realize our nation has a spending problem, not a revenue problem. Finally, I hope President Obama will provide a clear plan on how he will keep our nation safe from the very real threat of terrorism that continues to increase each day. We live in a very dangerous world because of the rise of radical Islamic terrorism due to this administration’s failed foreign policy and we need a plan from our Commander in Chief to destroy ISIS. "Delivering these solutions would leave an honorable legacy in history and a strong path for our future generations. Unfortunately, everything we hear out of the White House would point to the opposite. I fear we will instead hear another partisan speech filled with the glorification of false promises and the intent to implement more failed policies through executive fiat. The future of our great nation is on the line. I hope the president will deliver the positive solutions America needs." Click here to view Carter's prebuttal to the 2016 State of the Union address.
01.07.2016	Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (Ga-01) released the following statement today after Congressman Lynn Westmoreland (Ga-03) announced his retirement from the United States House of Representatives at the end of the 114th Congress. “Lynn Westmoreland has worked tirelessly for more than twenty years on behalf of the people of Georgia. In the state legislature Lynn fought for those he represented. In the United States House of Representatives, Lynn continued this fight and honorably made it his mission to make our nation and world a safer place. I am grateful for Lynn’s leadership in the Georgia Delegation and I will miss my friend in the Capitol. I wish him and Joan all the best in what the future holds for their family.”
01.06.2016	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (GA-01) spoke on the floor of the United States House of Representative today in support of legislation to send a repeal of Obamacare to President Obama's desk for the first time. While on the floor, Carter said the Restoring Americans' Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act "guts Obamacare, eliminating many of the penalties and programs that have been implemented over the last several years by this Administration." Carter also noted that the legislation the House will vote on today "returns to the American people a system that is driven by the market - not by artificial formulas and percentages created by Washington bureaucrats." Click here to view or download Carter's speech Full Transcript: Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of the Senate Amendment to H.R. 3762, the Restoring Americans’ Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act of 2015. This bill guts ObamaCare, eliminating many of the penalties and programs that have been implemented over the last several years by this Administration. Americans have been saddled with the burden of a healthcare insurance system that restricts what doctor they can see, what services they can receive, and has even limited them to who they can have as their pharmacists. If the President signs this bill into law, we can return the power of our health care system back to the American people. Americans should be in charge of their health care system- not Washington. With this bill, Congress will eliminate the individual mandate, the employer mandate, and repeal all future appropriated funds to the Prevention and Public Health Fund that has supported the failing ObamaCare law for the last several years. It repeals the medical device tax, the excise tax on high-cost health insurance plans, and the $2,500 limit on flexible spending accounts. It also repeals ObamaCare’s Medicaid expansion eligibility pathway, which has left many states suffering with budget problems, and it restricts federal funding to Planned Parenthood and its affiliated clinics for a period of one year with appropriate funds being redirected to Community Health Centers to better serve women and their health. This bill returns to the American people a system that is driven by the market- not by artificial formulas and percentages created by Washington bureaucrats. As a former pharmacist and owner of three independent pharmacies, I can assure you the only way to lower costs and create an opportunity for everyone to participate is by allowing the free market to work as it was meant to. I urge my colleagues to support this rule and this bill so we can eliminate this burdensome healthcare plan and bring greater opportunities for Americans to receive affordable healthcare. Mr. Speaker, I yield back to the gentleman from Georgia. Click here to view or download Carter's speech.
01.06.2016	Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (Ga-01) voted today to send an Obamacare repeal bill to the President’s desk for the first time ever. Carter voted in support of the Restoring Americans’ Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act which was passed in the United States House of Representatives today. The Restoring Americans’ Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act repeals major provisions of Obamacare and eliminates federal funding for Planned Parenthood. According to the Congressional Budget Office (CBO), the legislation will reduce the deficit by $516 billion over the 2016-2025 period. “It is a proud day to finally get legislation to repeal the Obamacare train wreck on the President’s desk for the first time,” Carter said. “Now he must answer to the millions of Americans who have faced higher premiums and deductibles, lost their doctors, or had their policies cancelled completely. President Obama must also make a decision on whether he will do the moral thing and hold the criminals at Planned Parenthood accountable for the horrific acts exposed through recent videos. While I fear our president will ignore the call from both Republicans and Democrats to repeal this deeply flawed law while continuing to force this disaster that is destroying our healthcare system on Americans, I won’t stop this fight until Obamacare is gone and the free market is put back in our healthcare system. American families deserve better than Obamacare.” The Restoring Americans’ Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act builds upon the House-passed reconciliation bill to dismantle Obamacare by repealing the coverage subsidies, tax credits, and the Medicaid expansion provisions, effective in 2018, paving the way for patient-centered health care solutions. The legislation also repeals the vast majority of the Obamacare taxes in 2016 including the medical device tax, health insurance tax, medicine cabinet tax and others while ending the individual mandate and employer mandate penalties immediately.
01.05.2016	Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (Ga-01) released the following statement in response to President Barack Obama’s announcement of executive action to restrict gun ownership in the United States: “The president is trampling the Constitution at the expense of law-abiding citizens and I deeply condemn these executive actions. Rather than address the real threats facing our country, his Administration is once again trying to exploit tragedy to advance his anti-gun agenda. “Instead of blatantly overstepping his authority to attack our Second Amendment rights, President Obama should work with Congress to address the actual underlying causes of these tragedies. Mental illness must be addressed and we should work together to actually enforce the laws currently on the books to keep guns out of the hands of violent criminals. Additionally, the threat of radical Islamic terrorism increases every day and Americans are rightfully afraid. It is outrageous that the president would actively work to disarm law abiding American citizens as he continues to fumble with a nonexistent strategy to defeat these barbaric terrorists and protect our homeland. “I refuse to allow the President of the United States to circumvent Congress to take away citizen’s rights to protect themselves and their families. I will do everything in my power to stop this unacceptable and illegal executive overreach. Protecting the Second Amendment keeps us safe. Our Founding Fathers realized this fact, why must our president continue to ignore it?” Carter is a staunch defender of the Second Amendment and has already started the fight against these executive actions. Last year, Carter sent a letter to President Obama expressing serious concerns over reports of the White House bypassing Congress to implement gun control policies that would unfairly target millions of law abiding Americans without making any meaningful impact on safety. A copy of the letter is available to view or download here. Additionally, he is a cosponsor of H.R. 986, the Concealed Carry Reciprocity Act, to allow Americans licensed to carry a firearm in another state as long as they stay within the restrictions of the state they are traveling in and H.R. 3115 to repeal the bans on military personnel carrying firearms on military bases and recruitment facilities. Carter is also an original cosponsor of legislation that will be introduced by Representative Marlin Stutzman (In-03) this week that condemns the President’s executive actions as a violation of the Second Amendment.
12.18.2015	Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (Ga-01) voted in support of the fiscal year 2016 Omnibus Appropriations bill today to provide funding for the federal government for the current fiscal year. “This legislation provides critical funding for the First District and the entire state of Georgia,” Carter said. “I voted for this bill because the largest economic drivers in our district cannot operate without this legislation. It supports our ports in Savannah and Brunswick and ensures construction continues in the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project. The bill also provides important construction funds to our military bases, ensures Kings Bay has the resources needed for future missions and, despite shortsighted attempts by the Air Force, fully funds the A-10 Warthog at Moody Air Force Base to keep it flying.” Carter has been a leader in securing funding for the military interests in the First District in this bill. He testified in front of the House Appropriations Committee earlier this year. The bill includes $73.7 billion to provide needed resources and training for our troops in the field and to combat the threat of ISIS and other enemies around the world. The legislation also strengthens the security of the Visa Waiver Program to ensure individuals entering the United States with the program are not security risks. “Our nation and world are under attack by radical Islamic terrorists,” Carter said. “The threats against Americans at home and abroad are too great to ignore. Now more than ever we must strengthen our national defense and support our military to destroy ISIS.” The legislation also reflects conservative priorities in both funding and policy. “While I wish this legislation would have gone further to end Washington’s spending addiction and promote conservative principles, it does provide many victories for conservatives and the American people,” Carter said. “The legislation ends the antiquated ban on crude oil exports, supports Second Amendment and pro-life measures, and continues the fight to end Obamacare. The vote today is yet another stepping stone in a far from over fight to rein in spending and push forward conservative values.” The fiscal year 2016 Omnibus Appropriations bill was passed in the House today with Carter’s support. The legislation provides a total of $1.149 trillion to fund the federal government through September 30, 2016. This includes $548 billion in defense spending, $73.7 billion in Overseas Contingency Operations Fund, and $518 billion in non-defense spending. The legislation complies with the budget caps established in the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015 enacted in November.
12.17.2015	Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (Ga-01) voted today to create a simpler, fairer tax code. The House passed H.R. 2029, the Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes Act, with Carter’s support. “Since I arrived in Congress, I have been fighting to simplify America’s antiquated and overly burdensome tax code that is the greatest threat to economic opportunity in our nation,” Carter said. “With the highest corporate tax rate in the world and an overly complex tax code, creating a fairer tax code and reining in the bureaucrats at the IRS are the best moves we can make to empower all Americans to achieve the American Dream. The Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes Act works to accomplish this by reining in the out-of-control IRS and making 40 percent of the tax extenders permanent laying the groundwork for the comprehensive tax reform our nation deserves.” H.R. 2029 makes permanent over 20 tax relief provisions, extends for 5 years or 2 years a number of other tax relief provisions that expired at the end of 2014, places a moratorium on the medical device tax, and addresses a number of additional tax policy changes. “This legislation continues efforts to dismantle the train wreck of Obamacare by delaying the tax on medical devices for two years,” Carter said. “Hardworking Americans and job creators deserve stability and they will only be provided this if Obamacare is eliminated and we finally put an end to the endless cycle of expiring tax policies. I am proud to support this legislation today to provide a strong path to both and I will continue my fight to completely abolish the IRS and scrap our current tax code.” Carter’s first act as a Member of Congress was to co-sponsor the Fair Tax, which would create a simpler, fairer and flatter tax code to build a stronger economy.
12.08.2015	Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (Ga-01) voted in support of H.R. 158, the Visa Waiver Improvement and Terrorist Travel Prevention Act, today to close security gaps in the Visa Waiver Program to combat terrorist travel. “ISIS and other terrorist organizations are looking for any opportunity to exploit the hospitality of a nation to cause devastating harm and the security gaps in the Visa Waiver Program are yet another opportunity for them to infiltrate our homeland,” Carter said. “The largest convergence of jihadists in world history is happening right now in Syria and Iraq and many hold Western passports allowing them to get into the United States without a visa. We must act immediately to close this dangerous loophole to ensure terrorists are not able to hop on a plane and cross our borders. This legislation should be signed into law as soon as possible for the safety of the American people.” The Visa Waiver Improvement and Terrorist Travel Protection Act: • Gives the Secretary of Homeland Security the authority to suspend a country’s participation in the program if they fail to share counterterrorism information with the U.S; • Denies Visa Waiver Program status to those citizens from participating countries that have traveled to certain terrorist hotspots since 2011; • Requires all Visa Waiver Program countries use fraud resistant e-passports and; • Allows for the suspension of high-risk countries. Carter is a cosponsor of the Visa Waiver Improvement and Terrorist Travel Prevention Act passed in the House today. As a member of the House Committee on Homeland Security, Carter has been working with colleagues on the committee to address the situation and will continue to focus on protecting our homeland from potential threats. Carter cosponsored H.R. 2899, the Countering Violent Extremism Act of 2015, and assisted in passing this legislation through the House Committee on Homeland Security. This legislation establishes within the Department of Homeland Security the Office for Countering Violent Extremism to support efforts to counter violent extremism. He also sent a letter to both President Obama and Secretary of State Kerry urging the administration to immediately halt admissions of refugees from the conflict areas into the United States. Click here to view or download a copy of the letter.
12.08.2015	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (Ga-01) hammered State Department officials about the continued cost overruns of State Department construction projects. In a hearing of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee, Carter questioned Gregory B. Starr, Assistant Secretary for Diplomatic Security. During questioning of Mr. Starr, Carter raised serious concerns about State's wasteful spending, "you appeared here before this full committee in July to review the cost overruns of the U.S. embassy in Kabul, and again in September to discuss both security concerns and cost overruns with the two U.S. Consulates in Mexico...and that’s just two examples. Two examples that you’ve had to answer for this year. Other examples would include the State Department paying a construction company $18.5 million for renovations to a prison in Afghanistan originally slated to cost $16 million. And then the firm completed only half of the work over five years. Now the State Department calculates it’s going to cost another $16 million to finish the project. The State Department has spent $5 million on fancy glassware. Five million dollars on fancy glassware at U.S. embassies. The new embassy in Papua New Guinea had to be entirely scrapped. Entirely scrapped and started over. That resulted in almost quadrupling the cost of the project." Carter also raised concerns about cost overruns of future construction projects, including the State Department's attempts to build a new, duplicative Foreign Affairs Security Training Center (FASTC) in Virginia instead of utilizing the already functional Federal Law Enforcement Training Center. During questioning, Carter said "you could have renovated and you could have redone the current London embassy for less than a billion dollars if you would have only slowed down and made sure it was done correctly. We’ve established that here today. We’ve established that. You know what bothers me so much about this? Is that we are making the same mistake all over again. All you have to do is look at what you’re trying to do with the Foreign Affairs Security Training Center. It’s all we’ve got to do. You look at what was done. You compared FLETC, the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, down in Glynco, Georgia. They submitted a bid of $243 million. You went to Fort Pickett. They submitted a bid of $950 million. You went back to Fort Pickett and said ‘aw come on, can’t you do better than that?’ They said, ‘ok, we’ll come down to $450 million. We’ll just eliminate the dormitories and cafeteria. All the things that already exist at FLETC. We’ll eliminate all those and we’ll get the price down.’ You know why don’t we do this, I’ll tell you what we’ll do Mr. Starr. Let’s just go ahead and schedule the next hearing on the cost overruns at FLETC. You wanna go ahead and do that? It would save us a lot of time because we know you’re gonna be right back here. We’ve seen it already. Let me tell ya, when you get back here on the cost overruns on that, if I’m still on that committee, don’t count on my support." Click here to view or download Carter's questioning Click here to view or download Carter's questioning.
12.08.2015	The United States House of Representatives today passed Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter’s (Ga-01) Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers Reform and Improvement Act. The legislation would reauthorize the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center (FLETC) located in Brunswick, Georgia and codify essential directives into law. “FLETC is the preeminent facility for law enforcement training in the United States,” Carter said. “While FLETC has provided topnotch training since its creation in the 1970’s, Congress has failed to provide FLETC with a reauthorization. There are several authorities within the Office of the Director that were instituted over the last forty years after the original authorization that need to be codified into law so FLETC can continue to provide the highest quality and most cost effective training possible.” H.R. 3842, the Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers Reform and Improvement Act, will now be considered by the United States Senate. Full text of the legislation as introduced can be found here. The Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, located in Brunswick, Georgia, provides security training for the Department of Homeland Security and 91 federal partner organizations, as well as state and local law enforcement agencies. Last year, FLETC trained 58,666 students and is projected to train more than 70,000 students this year. FLETC is responsible for an economic impact in the surrounding five counties of more than $313 million. Statewide, that number jumps to more than $975 million. At any given time, FLETC provides training to 3,000 students and employs more than 3,000 Georgians. Since the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center was created in the 1970’s, Congress has never reauthorized the center. Carter represents Brunswick, Georgia, and the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center in the United States House of Representatives.
12.06.2015	Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (Ga-01) released the following statement in response to President Obama’s address this evening. “Words must be backed by decisive action and an unyielding resolve to rid the earth of this scourge. I remain unconvinced that this Administration has either. The President is wasting time when trying to reason with the irrational or fighting for moral high ground with people who lack morals. “We can either fight ISIS and groups over there or we can fight them here. I know where I want the fight to take place and I call on the President to allow our military leaders to create a strategy to accomplish the task. Congress stands ready to provide them with the resources they need. “The attack in San Bernardino makes clear that terrorist networks will exploit our immigration system to plant extremists. I will continue fighting to shut off refugee resettlement for those from the conflict areas and tighten immigration screening until the Administration puts in place better screening measures to ensure we are not risking the safety and security of the American people. “Those trying to exploit this tragedy to advance their anti-gun agenda under the guise of protecting the American people are misguided. France has some of the most stringent gun laws in the world yet Paris happened. California has some of the most stringent gun laws in our country yet San Bernardino happened. Disarming law abiding American citizens will have the same benefit to our homeland security as the Paris climate talks.” As a member of the House Committee on Homeland Security, Carter has been working with colleagues on the committee to address the situation and will continue to focus on protecting our homeland from potential threats. Carter cosponsored H.R. 2899, the Countering Violent Extremism Act of 2015, and assisted in passing this legislation through the House Committee on Homeland Security. This legislation establishes within the Department of Homeland Security the Office for Countering Violent Extremism to support efforts to counter violent extremism. He also sent a letter to both President Obama and Secretary of State Kerry urging the administration to immediately halt admissions of refugees from the conflict areas into the United States. Click here to view or download a copy of the letter.
12.02.2015	Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (Ga-01) voted in support of the Every Student Succeeds Act today to reduce the federal role in K-12 education, restore local control, and empower parents. “Our education system is failing our children and it’s not going to be fixed with the ‘Washington-knows-best mentality,’” Carter said. “As a father and grandfather, I know firsthand this is a gravely flawed mentality. Our children deserve the best education possible and the system can only be fixed by those who know students best – parents, teachers, and communities.” The Every Student Succeeds Act is a proposal approved by a House and Senate conference committee to replace No Child Left Behind. The legislation – described by the Wall Street Journal as the “largest devolution of federal control to the states in a quarter century,” – puts unprecedented restraints on Washington intrusion into classrooms, reins in the Department of Education, and puts the keys to our children's education and future back in local control. It also prevents one-size-fits-all standards like Common Core and puts an end to federally mandated high-stakes testing. "This guts the federal government’s ability to dictate how children are taught and puts families, teachers and communities in the driver’s seat,” Carter said. “All children learn differently and at their own pace and they should not be punished for this because of one-size-fits-all standards. I am proud to support this agreement today to prohibit the Obama Administration’s federally prescribed education standards and end Washington’s intrusion into our nation’s classrooms.” The Every Student Succeeds Act would: Prevent One-Size-Fits-All Standards like Common Core • Protects state and local autonomy over decisions in the classroom by preventing the Secretary of Education from coercing states into adopting Common Core or any other common standards or assessments, as well as reining in the secretary's regulatory authority. Reduce the Federal Role in Education • Repeals out-of-touch teacher qualification programs and allows state and local officials to determine who is qualified to teach their children; • Ends the era of federally-mandated high-stakes testing; • Prohibits the Secretary of Education from dictating national education policy; • Prevents the secretary from legislating through executive fiat and; • Eliminates 49 ineffective and duplicative programs. Restores Local Control • Returns responsibility for accountability and school improvement to state and local leaders; • Provides school districts more funding flexibility; • Protects the right of state and local leaders to determine what standards, assessments, and curriculum are best for their students and; • Preserves the right of states to opt-out of federal education programs. Empowers Parents • Ensures parents have the information they need to hold local schools accountable; • Empowers parents with more school choice options by continuing support for magnet schools and expanding charter school opportunities; • Prevents any federal interference in private schools and home schools and; • Establishes a program to provide eligible school districts the ability to allocate federal, state, and local education funds to follow students to the school they attend. Carter is a member of the House Education and the Workforce Committee where he is working to return education to local control. As a member of the Committee, Carter worked to craft and voted in support of the original legislation passed in the House, H.R. 5, the Student Success Act.
12.01.2015	Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (Ga-01) voted to block the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) from implementing controversial new job-killing energy regulations that could significantly increase energy costs for American families with questionable environmental benefits. The first resolution passed in the House today, S.J. Res. 23, disapproves of the EPA’s proposed regulations for new power plants. Under the rule, the agency would require new coal-fired power plants to install technology not yet commercially available. The second resolution passed in the House today, S.J. Res. 24, disapproves of the EPA’s proposed regulations for existing power plants that would set unachievable emissions requirements. The rule would require states to submit plans to the agency to meet the new mandates. States that fail to submit a satisfactory plan would become subject to a “Federal Plan” under which the agency has proposed it would implement a federal regulatory cap-and-trade program. “This is nothing less than a de facto ban on American energy that will raise costs, kill jobs, and reduce the reliability of electric power in America,” Carter said. “To make things worse, even the EPA admits neither rule will have any meaningful impact on global temperatures. As our Commander in Chief wastes time with climate talks in Paris while we face more imminent threats here at home, I hope these resolutions send a clear message that the American people do not support this radical plan to destroy jobs and take more money out of the pockets of hardworking American families.“ The resolutions passed in Senate last month and the House today, with Carter’s support, would block the controversial regulations and ensure they have no force or effect if signed into law. According to Southern Company, the impact of these rules would include higher costs, reduced reliability, lower tax revenues for our state and communities, and the potential loss of 800 jobs within the company. Carter cosponsored identical versions of these resolutions, H. J. Res. 71 and H. J. Res. 72, which were previously introduced in the House. He is a member of the House Energy Action Team which is dedicated to promoting energy policies that prevent rising energy costs, create thousands of good jobs and enhance our national security by promoting energy independence for America.
11.25.2015	SAVANNAH, GA - Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter released the following statement upon learning of the death of Sheriff Al St Lawrence: "Al was a model public servant, having served the people of Chatham County with distinction for 56 years and serving his country in the Air Force before that. His 23 years as Sheriff transformed the Department into a modern crime fighting force. Through it all he maintained a servant's heart, giving back to our community and to those across our state through the Georgia Sheriff'S Youth Homes which he supported vigorously. Amy and I send our thoughts and prayers to Pat and the entire St Lawrence family as well as the Chatham County Sheriff's Department as we all mourn this loss." share: f t Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter released the following statement upon learning of the death of Sheriff Al St Lawrence: "Al was a model public servant, having served the people of Chatham County with distinction for 56 years and serving his country in the Air Force before that. His 23 years as Sheriff transformed the Department into a modern crime fighting force. Through it all he maintained a servant's heart, giving back to our community and to those across our state through the Georgia Sheriff'S Youth Homes which he supported vigorously. Amy and I send our thoughts and prayers to Pat and the entire St Lawrence family as well as the Chatham County Sheriff's Department as we all mourn this loss."
11.19.2015	Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (Ga-01) voted today to halt refugee resettlement in the United States from Syria and Iraq until additional security measures are put in place. The House passed the American Security Against Foreign Enemies (SAFE) Act today, with Carter’s support, to put in place the most robust national-security vetting process in history for refugee resettlement. The legislation requires the nation’s top security officials to certify before admitting any Syrian or Iraqi refugee into the United States that the individual does not represent a security threat. "The attacks in Paris confirmed our worst fears: ISIS can and will use refugee movement to infiltrate countries they wish to do harm," said Carter. “I refuse to sit idly by and expose the American people to what amounts to no less than a Trojan horse. While we are a nation of immigrants and we lead the world in humanitarian assistance, the Obama Administration’s own officials have confirmed that the federal government does not have the ability to conduct thorough background checks on all of the refugees that the Administration plans to allow into our nation." FBI Director James Comey stated, "we can only query against that which we have collected. And so if someone has not made a ripple in the pond in Syria in a way that would get their identity or their interests reflected in our databases, we can query our databases until the cows come home but nothing will show up because we have no record of that person." "The number one responsibility of the federal government is to provide for the common defense,” Carter said. "It is clear allowing refugees into our nation right now is playing a dangerous game with the safety of the American people. As our Commander in Chief continues to flounder on a strategy to destroy ISIS, this legislation is critical to ensure threats are kept out of our homeland.” Carter is a cosponsor of H.R. 4038, the SAFE Act. Additionally, Carter sent a letter to both President Obama and Secretary of State Kerry this week urging the administration to immediately halt admissions of refugees from the conflict areas into the United States. Click here to view or download a copy of the letter. Since March 2011 when the crisis in Syria began, some 2,228 Syrian refugees have been admitted to the United States including 66 who were resettled in Georgia.
11.16.2015	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (Ga-01) released the following statement today on the Obama Administration's Syrian refugee plan in the United States after the coordinated ISIS attacks in France. "While we are a nation of immigrants, a full background investigation is essential to any immigrant's path into our nation. Currently we do not have the ability to sufficiently vet Syrian refugees to determine the likelihood of a refugee engaging in terrorist activities once in the United States. “I applaud Governor Deal’s decision that Georgia will not accept Syrian refugees and I strongly urge President Obama to completely halt the Syrian refugee plan immediately until we know how to properly handle this very serious threat. Our number one priority must always be the safety of the American people."
11.13.2015	The Air Force has announced it is considering delaying the retirement of the A-10 Warthog aircraft for several years. Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (GA-01), who represents Moody Air Force Base in Congress, has been a leader in the fight to preserve the A-10. Carter testified in front of the House Appropriations Committee earlier this year to highlight the importance of the A-10 to our national security and request full funding for the fleet. Carter also supported critical legislation to keep the A-10 flying. “The Air Force may finally be realizing what we have known all along,” Carter said. “The A-10 is the only aircraft of its kind that can effectively accomplish its mission of protecting our troops while remaining close to the battlefield for any additional support that may be needed by our ground troops. It’s outrageous they would even consider retiring this platform as they deploy the A-10 fleet from Moody Air Force Base to fight ISIS overseas. I strongly urge the Air Force to move forward with delaying the retirement of the Warthog for the safety of our troops and nation.” The A-10 provides Close Air Support and Combat Search-And-Rescue capability unmatched by any other aircraft in the Air Force’s inventory. No other fixed-wing airframes are as proficient as the A-10 in operating in rugged environments, low visibility, and very low altitudes. The A-10s, operated by the 23rd Wing, have been providing critical close air support (CAS) for our ground troops since they first entered service in the 1970s. It is this unique ability to perform effective close air support that has garnered the A-10 with high accolades in recent theatres of conflict, including Iraq and Afghanistan. Currently, A-10s are flying Close Air Support missions against ISIS advances.
11.06.2015	Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (Ga-01) released the following statement today after the Obama Administration announced they will reject the Keystone XL Pipeline. “The Obama Administration’s decision to reject the Keystone Pipeline is a direct attack on American jobs and our national security. The Pipeline would create thousands of jobs and offset the oil we import from often hostile countries with oil from one of our longest-standing allies without a dime from the taxpayers. However, yet again, the President of the United States has put party politics ahead of what is best for our nation and the American people. I strongly condemn this decision and will look to pursue every avenue possible to get this pipeline up and running. I refuse to stand idly as our addiction to foreign oil grows as threats around the world increase.” The Keystone XL Pipeline would carry up to 830,000 barrels of oil per day 875 miles from Alberta, Canada to Steele City, Nebraska. From there, the oil would go to refineries in the Midwest and Gulf Coast. Because the pipeline crosses a national border, it requires federal approval in the form of a Presidential Permit. The Keystone XL Pipeline is in no way affiliated with the Palmetto Pipeline.
11.05.2015	Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (Ga-01) voted today to increase state and local control of transportation investment. The House passed H.R. 22, with Carter’s support, to authorize six years of funding for federal highway and mass transit programs. “While federal investment into our nation’s transportation system is critical, states and local governments know the needs of their communities and where these dollars are best invested,” Carter said. “This legislation gives state and local governments the flexibility needed to meet the needs of their communities and get Washington out of the decision making process. It has been ten years since Congress last passed an infrastructure bill that lasts longer than a two-year period. It’s past time to provide long-term certainty to the American people.” H.R. 22: Provides $325 billion in funding for transportation projects, $261 billion for highway programs, $55 billion for transit programs and $9 billion for safety programs; Provides certainty for state and local governments to undertake large-scale, complex transportation projects; Provides flexibility for states to invest in bridge rehabilitation and replacement; Eliminates red tape that slows down infrastructure improvements; Streamlines the environmental review and permitting process to cut red tape and accelerate project delivery; Provides more flexibility and decision-making to states and local governments to allow them to better address their priorities and needs; Overhauls federal truck and bus safety grant programs and rulemaking processes; Reforms truck and bus safety programs and eases administrative burdens on small businesses; Provides flexibility to states to target driver safety grants on their pressing safety needs; Promotes private investment in our surface transportation system and; Improves truck and bus safety by accelerating the introduction of new transportation technologies.
11.05.2015	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (Ga-01) has been named a "Champion of Healthcare Innovation" by the Healthcare Leadership Council. The award recognizes lawmakers working to support patient-centered medial progress. Click here to view or download a hi res version "As the only pharmacist in Congress, I have seen the devastating hits our healthcare system has taken in recent years," Carter said. "Obamacare is driving up costs, taking away choices, and putting bureaucrats between patients and their health care providers. I remain diligent in my fight to repeal the law and replace it with market-oriented solutions that get government out of the way of more affordable, accessible, and patient-centered health care. I am honored to receive this award that recognizes this fight." The Healthcare Leadership Council (HLC) is a coalition of leaders of the nation’s premier health care companies and organizations.
11.04.2015	The House Committee on Homeland Security today approved Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter’s (Ga-01) Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers Reform and Improvement Act. The legislation would reauthorize the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center (FLETC) located in Brunswick, Georgia. “Since its creation in the 1970’s, FLETC has provided high-quality, cost-effective, standardized training for federal law enforcement training officers from multiple agencies,” Carter said. “During this time, authorities within the Office of the Director have been implemented that need to be codified into law. I am pleased the committee approved this important legislation today moving this authorization forward to ensure FLETC remains the preeminent facility for law enforcement training in the United States.” H.R. 3842, the Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers Reform and Improvement Act, will now be considered by the full United States House of Representatives. Full text of the legislation as introduced can be found here. Carter represents Brunswick, Georgia, and the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center in the United States House of Representatives.
10.29.2015	Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (Ga-01) released the following statement today after Representative Paul D. Ryan (Wi-01) was elected Speaker of the United States House of Representatives. “More than ever before, the Republican Party needs unity. Paul Ryan is a strong leader with a proven conservative record. Most importantly, Paul has proven himself with his budget plans to rein in out of control Washington spending. I am confident Paul will work tirelessly to unite our Conference and push forward our shared conservative values. Now, with the Speaker’s race behind us, it’s time to get back to the work we were sent here to do.”
10.28.2015	Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (Ga-01) opposed a budget deal negotiated by congressional leaders citing its failure to adequately address the national debt. The measure lifts spending caps first enacted in 2011 by $80 billion, offsets the increased spending with cuts elsewhere and suspends the statutory debt limit through March 2017. “The national debt is the greatest threat to our national security and threatens to leave our children and grandchildren with a life indebted to China,” said Carter. “There are good and much needed reforms in this deal that I fully support and I applaud those who worked so hard to negotiate it. That said, it falls woefully short when it comes to the kind of structural reforms necessary to prevent Washington’s spending addiction from bankrupting the American Dream.” Provisions included in the bill would: lift spending caps enacted in 2011 by $80 billion over the next two years equally divided between defense and non-defense spending; offset those spending increases with spending cuts and reforms elsewhere; increase spending in the Overseas Contingency Operations fund by at least $16 billion without offsets; transfer funding to the Social Security Disability Trust fund to maintain the solvency of the program; enact structural entitlement reforms to strengthen Social Security such as closing loopholes that allow individuals to obtain larger payments than those intended and require medical review before awarding disability benefits; equalize payments for Medicare services obtained in outpatient settings in hospitals with those obtained in a doctor’s office; provide a two-year budget window to provide certainty to defense programs; eliminate Obamacare’s auto-enrollment mandate; and suspend the statutory debt limit through March 2017.
10.28.2015	Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (Ga-01) introduced H.R. 3842 today to reauthorize the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center (FLETC) located in Brunswick, Georgia. “FLETC is the preeminent facility for law enforcement training in the United States,” Carter said. “Since its creation in the 1970’s, FLETC has provided high-quality, cost-effective, standardized training for federal law enforcement training officers from multiple agencies. While they have done their part in providing topnotch training, Congress has failed to provide FLETC with a reauthorization and an opportunity to codify important authorities within the Office of the Director into law to ensure they can continue to provide the highest quality and most cost effective training possible. I am proud to introduce this legislation today to reauthorize FLETC to ensure they are able to continue their critical and impressive work.” The Federal Law Enforcement Training Center (FLETC), located in Brunswick, Georgia, provides security training for the Department of Homeland Security and 91 federal partner organizations, as well as state and local law enforcement agencies. Last year, FLETC trained 58,666 students and is projected to train more than 70,000 students this year. FLETC is responsible for an economic impact in the surrounding five counties of more than $313 million. Statewide, that number jumps to more than $975 million. At any given time, FLETC provides training to 3,000 students and employs more than 3,000 Georgians. Since the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center was created in the 1970’s, Congress has never reauthorized the center. Carter represents Brunswick, Georgia, and the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center in the United States House of Representatives.
10.27.2015	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (Ga-01) continued his fight to protect Georgia jobs and American competitiveness today by urging his colleagues to support reauthorization of the Export-Import Bank on the floor of the United States House of Representatives. Carter noted the threat to American jobs and the irreparable damage expiration of the Export-Import Bank has caused in the First District, the State of Georgia, and the entire nation. While on the floor, Carter said "in the First District of Georgia, the Ex-Im Bank facilitates exports for over 17 companies, more than half of which are small businesses, over $500 million in exports and supports over 3,200 jobs. Around Georgia, these numbers jump to more than $4 billion in exports from 205 companies supporting almost 30,000 jobs. With the recent expiration of the Ex-Im Bank, many of these companies have suffered the loss of millions of dollars in new business growth, market access, and risked thousands of jobs." Carter also noted the reality that "while we stand here debating the future of the Ex-Im Bank, our competitors are leveraging their own versions of their export-import agencies to increase their market shares abroad." Click here to view or download Carter's floor speech Full Transcript: Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of reauthorizing the Export-Import Bank. In the First District of Georgia, the Ex-Im Bank facilitates exports for over 17 companies, more than half of which are small businesses, over $500 million in exports and supports over 3,200 jobs. Around Georgia, these numbers jump to more than $4 billion in exports from 205 companies supporting almost 30,000 jobs. With the recent expiration of the Ex-Im Bank, many of these companies have suffered the loss of millions of dollars in new business growth, market access, and risked thousands of jobs. While we stand here debating the future of the Ex-Im Bank, our competitors are leveraging their own versions of their export-import agencies to increase their market shares abroad. While I advocated for reforms that go further than this legislation, it does provide critical reforms necessary to ensure taxpayers are protected while allowing the Bank to do its important work. Passing this legislation is essential to protecting thousands of jobs and I urge my colleagues to join us in reauthorizing the Ex-Im Bank and to let the world know America is open for business. Click here to view or download Carter's speech on the floor of the United States House of Representatives.
10.27.2015	Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (Ga-01) voted in support of H.R. 597 today to implement important reforms and reauthorize the Export-Import (Ex-Im) Bank. “Failure to reauthorize the Ex-Im Bank puts thousands of jobs in the First District, and across the nation, in jeopardy and puts Georgian and American companies at a dangerous disadvantage against our global competitors,” Carter said. “In the First District, the Ex-Im Bank facilitates exports for 17 companies resulting in $501 million in exports and 3,208 jobs. With the recent expiration of the Ex-Im Bank, many of these companies have suffered the loss of millions of dollars in new business growth and market access. I supported reauthorization today because I refuse to sit idly as these jobs, and many others, are lost due to Washington’s failure to act.” While Carter has pushed for additional reforms, the legislation passed today provides several critical reforms including: Limiting taxpayer exposure by lowering the Bank’s borrowing cap for the first time and requiring higher loan reserves to protect taxpayer funds; Putting a greater focus on small businesses by increasing the amount of Bank lending to small businesses from 20% of all Bank activity to 25%; Combating fraud and ethical misconduct by creating a non-political Chief Ethics Officer to oversee ethics practices of Bank employees; Strengthening risk management and transparency by creating a Chief Risk Officer and a Risk Management Committee to oversee the Bank’s risk exposure and requiring the Inspector General to audit the Bank’s risk management procedures regularly; Requiring the President to pursue a global end to export credit financing by submitting a strategy to end government-support subsidies internationally. “I have pushed for reforms to the Bank to ensure taxpayers are protected while allowing the Bank to do its important work,” Carter said. “While I would like to see additional reforms, the Bank has been expired for too long and irreparable damage has been caused on American jobs and American job creators. Thousands of jobs have already been lost and thousands more are being put in jeopardy while business contracts are going to our foreign competitors each day Congress fails to act. The legislation passed in the House today is essential to protecting these jobs and letting the world know America is open for business.” The Ex-Im Bank operates under a renewable general statutory charter which Congress failed to renew before it expired on July 1, 2015. As a result, the Bank's statutory authorities have expired putting jobs across the nation at-risk. As the official export credit agency of the U.S. government, companies pay fees for the insurance they purchase allowing the Bank to return money to the U.S. Treasury. Over the last six years, the Ex-Im Bank has returned $2.7 billion to the treasury and supported 1.3 million jobs in the United States. Additionally, every industrialized country in the world has an equivalent to the Ex-Im Bank. Eliminating ours will not level the playing field. Instead, it will put American companies at a disadvantage with their international competitors as already seen in the First District of Georgia.
10.23.2015	Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (Ga-01) voted in support of the Restoring Americans’ Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act today in an effort to dismantle Obamacare and defund abortion providers like Planned Parenthood. This legislation uses privileged status to overcome the efforts of some in the Senate to block this legislation from reaching the President’s desk that has resounding support among the American people. “For too long, efforts to repeal Obamacare have been blocked by obstructionists in the Senate,” Carter said. “The legislation I supported today is critical to break this logjam and get these measures to the President’s desk for the first time. Obamacare is destroying the healthcare system that I proudly worked in for thirty years and I refuse to let that happen.” This legislation also prohibits taxpayer dollars from going to Planned Parenthood and other abortion providers. Instead, the funds would go to community health centers that provide comprehensive women’s health care. “It’s past time to end the flow of taxpayer dollars to a criminal enterprise like Planned Parenthood,” Carter said. “While tax payer dollars should never be used on abortions, the recent acts uncovered at Planned Parenthood tug at the very moral fabric of our nation. I strongly urge the President to swiftly sign this bill into law instead of continuing to protect these criminals.” The Restoring Americans’ Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act uses a budget reconciliation process which is filibuster-proof, only requiring a simple majority of votes in the Senate. In addition to defunding abortion providers and investing in community health centers, H.R. 3762 repeals key sections of Obamacare such as the employer mandate, individual mandate, Independent Payment Advisory Board, medical device tax, and the “Cadillac Tax.”
10.22.2015	Today, President Obama vetoed the Fiscal Year 2016 National Defense Authorization Act. “It is disgraceful and dangerous that the President is using our military and the national security of the United States of America as a bargaining chip,” Carter said. “The NDAA represents a bipartisan, bicameral agreement on the best way to protect our national defense, meet the needs of our troops, and prepare for the threats of tomorrow. The veto decision is especially dangerous as the threats against America continue to increase around the world. It’s a shameful day in America when the Commander-in-Chief derails our effort to support and protect our nation and those who put themselves in harm’s way defending us. I vow to join my colleagues in the United States House of Representative to ensure this important legislation is signed into law.” Carter voted in support of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for fiscal year 2016 on October 1, 2015. The NDAA is the primary way Congress meets its most important constitutional obligation to “provide for the common defense.” It advances the vital funding and authorities that America’s military requires. In an era of unprecedented threats, uncertainty, and technological change, the legislation ensures America’s Armed Forces are agile, efficient, ready, and lethal.
10.21.2015	Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (Ga-01) voted today to protect the full faith and credit of the United States of America by ensuring government debt is paid in full and on time. The Default Prevention Act would allow the Secretary of the Treasury to meet the debt obligations of the United States without regard to the statutory debt limit. “It’s time to take the full faith and credit of the United States off the bargaining table when it comes to fiscal debates in Washington,” Carter said. “Time and again, President Obama and his allies in Congress have used the threat of default to get a clean pass at increasing our debt limit. The result is governing by crisis and distracts from what the debt limit should force: a debate on the policies that drive the debt in the first place. By preventing a debt crisis, we can get the calm necessary to reach agreement on getting our debt under control.” Under the bill passed today, the Treasury Secretary would be permitted to borrow above the statutory debt limit for the sole purpose of paying principal and interest due on the debt, thereby guaranteeing the debt of the United States is honored. The clear and unambiguous mandate to protect the nation’s credit first will result in the ability of the government to continue to pay its other bills. American investors are protected in the legislation, as more than half of the nation’s debt is held by Americans, often in pension funds. The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office last week confirmed the Treasury Department’s estimate that the statutory debt limit will be reached on or around November 5.
10.09.2015	Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (Ga-01) today voted to bring an end to a forty year old ban on exports of crude oil. Instituted in the 1970s in the wake of the Arab oil embargo, the ban is largely credited with driving up gas prices at home and discouraging American energy independence. “This outdated ban is driving up the price at the pump while limiting our ability to harness America’s energy potential,” said Carter. “America has the largest energy resource base in the world but we aren’t able to take advantage of it because our energy policy is stuck in the seventies. Lifting this ban will bring down gas prices while creating new jobs and new opportunities here at home. It also gives us additional leverage around the world while weakening the power of other energy exporters like Russia, Iran, Venezuela, and Saudi Arabia.” The nonpartisan Government Accountability Office projects lifting the ban could generate 1 million new jobs and reduce the cost of gas by 8 cents per gallon. An independent analysis by IHS found that allowing US oil exports would support an average of 400,000 jobs per year, generate an additional $1.3 trillion in government revenue through 2030, and add $265 billion in additional disposable income to every American household. Carter recently spoke on the floor of the United States House of Representatives in support of this legislation. To view or download Carter’s speech, please click here.
10.08.2015	Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (Ga-01) released the following statement today after the announcement that elections for Speaker of the House will be delayed. “We have too many pressing issues before us to waste our time dragging out this palace intrigue. I respect Leader McCarthy’s decision but it’s time to come together, elect a new Speaker, and get to the work we were sent here to do. We have been entrusted by the American people with the largest Republican majority since FDR was President. Let’s get this Speaker’s race behind us and get back to work.”
10.08.2015	Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (GA-01) today continued his effort to block a controversial effort by the State Department to build a duplicative new training facility at a cost of as much as $1 billion. Carter provided a statement for the record in a hearing of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee convened by Senator David Perdue (GA) in his role as Chairman of the panel’s subcommittee charged with management oversight. “I thank Senator Perdue for allowing me to participate in this hearing as part of our ongoing effort to demand answers,” said Carter. “This is an example of bureaucracy run amok in which the State Department is trying an end run around Congress to waste taxpayer resources. In contrast to the State Department’s history of management failures, FLETC has a sterling record of providing high quality training to 91 federal agencies. We know they can get the job done more efficiently and effectively. The bureaucrats at the State Department need to end their blockade and begin working in earnest to get this training up and running at FLETC.” The State Department is attempting to push forward with a plan to construct a new Foreign Affairs Security Training Center (FAST-C) at Fort Pickett in Blackstone, Virginia to conduct foreign affairs security training instead of expanding and utilizing the Department of Homeland Security's Federal Law Enforcement Training Center (FLETC) in Brunswick, Georgia, at half the price. In a Statement for the Record, Carter highlighted new information obtained by the House Committee on Foreign Affairs revealing State Department officials failed to provide complete information to the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center and interfered with a Government Accountability Office report on the issue. A copy of Carter’s Statement for the Record is available here. Background: In 2013, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) submitted a proposal to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) to service State’s training needs by augmenting the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center (FLETC), in Brunswick, Ga., which provides security training for DHS and 91 federal partner organizations, including the State Department, as well as state and local law enforcement agencies. FLETC supports approximately 2,300 jobs in Glynn County, Georgia and more than 5,000 jobs throughout the state. Around the country, FLETC supports nearly 19,000 jobs with personal income totaling more than $975 million. In its 2013 proposal to OMB, DHS included the construction of new buildings, weapons ranges, and transportation costs to meet the requirements of State’s original FAST-C master plan. FLETC estimated that this new construction would cost $287 million. By leveraging its existing facilities to meet State’s training needs, FLETC estimates its proposal could also achieve significant cost savings over the long term. The State Department proposed to construct the FAST-C facility in Virginia at a cost of $461 million. However, the State Department’s initial estimate of $950 million suggests there is an almost certain likelihood of cost escalation beyond the current $461 million proposal during construction. In late 2013, OMB examined the FLETC and Fort Pickett plans. At this time, Chairman Royce and the House Committee on Foreign Affairs encouraged OMB to determine which proposal addresses the State Department’s training needs in the most fiscally responsible way. The Committee also requested that the Government Accountability Office perform an independent analysis of the proposals in September 2014. The Committee was then made aware that OMB analysts had completed a written analysis recommending that the State Department pursue its diplomatic security training at FLETC. However, in April 2014, the Administration confirmed that it planned to adopt the State Department’s proposal to build FAST-C at Fort Pickett in Virginia instead of FLETC. On May 19, 2014, Chairman Royce requested a copy of OMB’s analysis. After OMB failed to provide the information to Congress, Chairman Royce issued a subpoena to OMB for the documents. After many official requests through relevant Committees, letters and phone calls, Carter viewed the OMB report on July, 30, 2015. Carter sent a letter to the OMB on August 11, 2015 requesting that the report be made public. Last month, a Government Accountability Office report on the issue was released. On October 7, 2015, Chairman Royce and the House Committee on Foreign Affairs sent a letter to Secretary Kerry questioning the State Department’s involvement in the report. On October 8, 2015, the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations, Subcommittee on State Department and USAID Management, International Operations, and Bilateral International Development held a hearing on the issue. Carter represents the First District of Georgia where FLETC is located. Carter is a member of the House Homeland Security Committee with direct oversight over the Department of Homeland Security and the FLETC.
10.05.2015	Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (Ga-01) released the following statement today in response to the announcement in Atlanta on an agreement on the Trans-Pacific Partnership: “Robust trade is of great importance to creating jobs and prosperity throughout our country but especially in the First District with our rapidly growing Ports of Savannah and Brunswick. While I am hopeful about the potential opportunities created by TPP, I also have serious concerns that must be addressed. Earlier this year, I voted to require for the first time in history that the full text of a free trade agreement be made available to the American people for at least sixty days before being voted on in Congress. I intend to use every one of those days to thoroughly examine the deal and to ensure my constituents have the opportunity to ask questions and fully understand the potential ramifications and benefits of this agreement. I will only support an agreement that respects our existing laws while leveling the playing field for American workers and job creators.” Carter supported legislation earlier this year that was signed into law to assert Congress’ role in and bring transparency and accountability to international trade agreements and to require a sixty day review period of the agreement for the public. The legislation established Trade Promotion Authority (TPA), a process by which Congress lays out requirements for trade agreements to receive expedited consideration.
10.01.2015	A bipartisan majority of the U.S. House of Representatives defied a veto threat today to approve a measure that would keep the A-10 Thunderbolt flying. The National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), which authorizes defense programs for Fiscal Year 2016, includes $466.7 million to fully support personnel and to preserve, modify and upgrade the A-10 fleet. The NDAA also prohibits the Air Force from placing A-10s in backup status or retirement. Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (GA-01), who represents Moody Air Force Base in Congress, has been a leader in the fight to block the Obama Administration’s effort to prematurely retire the A-10. Earlier this year, he sent a letter to every member of the House Armed Services Committee asking for support of the aircraft, detailing its unique capabilities, and urging the committee to prohibit the Air Force from taking further action to divest the aircraft. Carter also testified in front of the House Appropriations Committee highlighting the importance of the A-10 to our national security and requesting full funding for the fleet. “The A-10 strikes fear in the hearts of our enemies while providing cover for our troops in the battlefield,” Carter said. “It is unparalleled in its ability to provide close air support and that has once again been reaffirmed in this vote. The NDAA represents a bipartisan, bicameral agreement on the best way to protect our national defense, meet the needs of our troops, and prepare for the threats of tomorrow. President Obama’s veto threat is disgraceful and dangerous and it is unbelievable that our president would attempt to derail this effort to support and protect our nation and those who put themselves in harm’s way defending us. The threats against America continue to increase around the world and now is not the time to play political games with our national security. I strongly urge the President to make the protection of our troops and our nation his top priority and abandon his misguided veto threat.” The National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for fiscal year 2016 is the primary way Congress meets its most important constitutional obligation to “provide for the common defense.” It advances the vital funding and authorities that America’s military requires. In an era of unprecedented threats, uncertainty, and technological change, the legislation ensures America’s Armed Forces are agile, efficient, ready, and lethal.
10.01.2015	Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (Ga-01) continued his fight against the Iran nuclear deal by voting to prevent the Obama Administration from moving forward with sanctions relief until Iran meets its obligations to victims of its terrorist activities. The Justice for Victims of Iranian Terrorism Act requires the Obama Administration to certify to Congress that Iran has paid court-ordered damages to terror victims before it can move forward with the sanctions relief. “The Obama Administration is handing the Iranian regime a pay day while their American victims are waiting for justice,” Carter said. “Iran owes over $43.5 billion in unpaid damages in U.S. courts yet our President is writing the hostile regime a $150 billion check by removing sanctions under the nuclear deal. The families of these victims have gone through a nightmare and they deserve what they were promised by a court of law. It is unfathomable that the administration would put the regime responsible for these horrific terror attacks ahead of the American families who have to live with the devastating repercussions.” In the past 15 years, more than 80 judgments have been handed down against Iran under the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act (FSIA) exception for state sponsors of terrorism. The terrorism exception to FSIA permits civil suits against terrorist states by their U.S. victims. Since the terrorism exception was created, Iran has accumulated over $43.5 billion in unpaid damages in U.S. courts. Despite Iran’s refusal to pay, it stands to gain $150 billion when sanctions are lifted under the nuclear deal. Carter has raised concerns and fought for Congressional oversight throughout negotiations of the nuclear deal with Iran, including voting to reject the deal last month. In March, Carter sent a bipartisan letter to President Obama with Representative Ed Royce (Ca-39), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, and 365 other House Members underscoring the “grave and urgent issues that have arisen” relating to the ongoing nuclear negotiations with Iran. Additionally, Carter voted in support of H.R. 1191, the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act, ensuring Congress has a review period and final approval of the deal. Carter also supported H. Res. 411 to restart the clock on the review period until all information is provided to Congress on the negotiations with Iran.
09.30.2015	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (Ga-01) today opposed legislation that would allow federal taxpayer dollars to continue flowing to Planned Parenthood, the nation’s largest provider of abortions. Carter’s stand comes in light of recent videos which uncovered the group’s practice of trafficking in fetal tissue and body parts of the unborn. “I cannot, in good conscience, support a single cent of taxpayer dollars going to a criminal enterprise like Planned Parenthood,” said Carter. “We’ve known for some time that the group is the largest provider of abortions but the vile and disgusting acts uncovered in these videos are beyond belief. This tugs at the very moral fabric of our country. We must focus on making sure we are utilizing every tool to combat Planned Parenthood and bring those who committed these crimes to justice. Using the power of the purse is an important step in our continued fight to protect the unborn and ensure tax dollars are not going to organizations that support the practice of abortion and trafficking of aborted fetal tissue.” Also today, Carter voted in support of H. Con. Res. 79 to defund Planned Parenthood for one year. This is the second time Carter has supported legislation this Congress to eliminate federal funding for Planned Parenthood until there is a thorough investigation of the organization. Carter is a staunch defender of the right to life and has helped lead the charge in Congress to cut off funding for Planned Parenthood while holding the organization and those involved accountable for the acts caught on tape. Earlier in the week, he demanded answers from Planned Parenthood President Cecile Richards on the organization’s waste of taxpayer dollars. Additionally, Carter has supported pro-life legislation such as: H.R. 3134, The Defund Planned Parenthood Act of 2015, which would prohibit all federal funding for Planned Parenthood; H.R. 3504, the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act, to extend vital protections to the survivors of attempted abortions; H.R. 7, No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion and Abortion Insurance Full Disclosure Act, which codifies the prohibition on federal funding for abortions including Obamacare insurance plans that fund abortion; H.J. Res. 43, Disapproving of the District of Columbia’s Reproductive Health Non-Discrimination Act, which would block an effort by the District of Columbia to ban employers within the city from making employment decisions based on beliefs with regard to abortion; and H.R. 36, the Pain Capable Unborn Child Protection Act, which would ban abortions of unborn children 20 weeks or later. Carter is also a cosponsor of HR 426, the Sanctity of Human Life Act, which protects all human life from the moment a child is conceived.
09.29.2015	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (Ga-01) voted today to allow states to choose whether abortion providers can participate as providers in their Medicaid programs.H.R. 3495, the Women’s Public Health and Safety Act, was passed by the United States House of Representatives today with Carter’s support. Carter spoke of the importance of the legislation on the floor of the United States House of Representatives today. While on the floor, Carter said “I rise today in support of H.R. 3495 because I believe states have the right to refuse funding to an organization that profits from the sale of aborted children’s organs. Medicaid and CMS should not be allowed to force states to fund these horrific practices against the state’s wishes. The advancement of women’s health should always remain a top priority for our healthcare community. However, we can achieve this goal without requiring states to provide access to institutions like Planned Parenthood.” Click here to view or download Congressman Carter's floor speech in support of H.R. 3495 He also reaffirmed his strong belief that “taxpayer dollars should not be going to the killing of unborn babies. Taxpayer dollars should not go to organizations like Planned Parenthood that support the practice of abortion and trafficking of aborted fetal tissue. Taxpayer funds should go towards investigating and prosecuting the individuals that are responsible for trafficking and the selling of fetal tissue. Taxpayer funds should go towards the advancements of women’s health.” A staunch defender of the right to life, Carter recently supported legislation to defund Planned Parenthood for one year. He also supported legislation to require any health care practitioner to preserve the life of a child born alive in the case of an abortion as they would any other child. Carter is also a cosponsor of H.R. 426, the Sanctity of Human Life Act, which protects life from conception. ###
09.29.2015	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (Ga-01) demanded answers from the President of Planned Parenthood, Cecile Richards, on their use of federal funding and taxpayer dollars during an Oversight and Government Reform Committee hearing today. During questioning of Richards, Carter raised serious concerns about the excessive spending at the organization while government funding makes up 41 percent of Planned Parenthood’s revenues. "The problem I have with that is that the Obama Administration reports that there are 13,000 publicly supported healthcare alternatives in the United States," Carter said. "Have you seen that? Are you aware of that? That’s what the Obama Administration is telling us. Yet, that’s almost eight times as many as Planned Parenthood has. And out of those clinics, we’ve got over 20 federally funded clinics as opposed to every Planned Parenthood. Yet those federally funded clinics, they don’t have $100 million dollar endowments. They down have $70 million Manhattan condos. They don’t spend hundreds of thousands of dollars on Grammy winning performers performing at their Galas. They don’t do any of those things yet they are able to provide needed services to women. Why is it that Planned Parenthood has got to have that in order to provide the same services?" Click hereto view or download Carter's questioning A staunch defender of the right to life, Carter recently supported legislation to defund Planned Parenthood for one year. He also supported legislation to require any health care practitioner to preserve the life of a child born alive in the case of an abortion as they would any other child. Carter is also a cosponsor of H.R. 426, the Sanctity of Human Life Act, which protects life from conception. Click here to view or download Carter's questioning.
09.18.2015	Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (Ga-01) voted today to defund Planned Parenthood. The House passed the Defund Planned Parenthood Act, with Carter’s support, to prohibit federal funds to Planned Parenthood for one year in the wake of several undercover videos alleging that Planned Parenthood harvests the body parts of unborn children. “The videos released exposing the appalling nature at Planned Parenthood are nothing short of horrifying,” said Carter. “While I believe taxpayer funds should never be used on abortions, it is especially unacceptable when these illegal and horrific practices are happening. Federal funding for abortion has been illegal since 1976 yet Planned Parenthood continues to get away with it. I’m proud to support this legislation today to put an end to Planned Parenthood’s continued blatant disregard for the law.” A staunch defender of the right to life, Carter was a cosponsor of H.R. 3134. He recently voted in support of H.R. 36, the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act, to ban abortions nationwide 20 weeks after conception except in the cases of incest and rape. Carter is also a cosponsor of H.R. 426, the Sanctity of Human Life Act, which protects life from conception.
09.18.2015	Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (Ga-01) continued his fight to protect the sanctity of life today by voting to strengthen protections for babies that survive abortion. The House passed the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act, with Carter’s support, to require any health care practitioner to preserve the life of a child born alive in the case of an abortion as they would any other child. “As a proud father and grandfather, I will do everything in my power to protect a child,” said Carter. “The atrocious videos of Planned Parenthood involve discussions of instances where a baby is born ‘intact’ during the course of an abortion. These despicable acts are on par with the sickest of criminals behind bars and that is exactly where these people belong. I am pleased that this legislation provides that if a born-alive child is cut open for body parts or if there are other actions taken to kill the child, the punishment is first degree murder. Murder is exactly what these acts are and the offenders must pay for their crime.” A staunch defender of the right to life, Carter was a cosponsor of this legislation. He recently voted in support of H.R. 36, the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act, to ban abortions nationwide 20 weeks after conception except in the cases of incest and rape. Carter is also a cosponsor of H.R. 426, the Sanctity of Human Life Act, which protects life from conception.
09.17.2015	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (Ga-01) condemned the actions of Planned Parenthood on the floor of the United States House of Representatives today. While on the floor, Carter said "the videos that have been released exposing the appalling acts committed by Planned Parenthood are horrifying. These are despicable acts on par with the sickest of criminals behind bars. That is exactly where these people belong. In prison, behind bars." Carter urged "federal law enforcement to execute a full criminal investigation into these alleged actions." He also reaffirmed his strong belief that "taxpayer funds should never be used to fund or offset the costs of providing abortions, and it is especially unacceptable when these illegal and horrific practices, like the selling and trafficking of unborn fetal tissue, are happening." Click here to view or download Carter's speech Full Transcript: I stand today in support of the innocent and the unborn. I strongly believe now is the time for Congress to stand up for those who cannot stand up for themselves. The videos that have been released exposing the appalling acts committed by Planned Parenthood are horrifying. These are despicable acts on par with the sickest of criminals behind bars. That is exactly where these people belong. In prison, behind bars. These videos have given everyone insight into the inexcusable and horrific culture at Planned Parenthood. Taxpayer funds should never be used to fund or offset the costs of providing abortions, and it is especially unacceptable when these illegal and horrific practices, like the selling and trafficking of unborn fetal tissue, are happening. As a father and grandfather, I believe we must seek justice for these crimes that have been committed. I urge federal law enforcement to execute a full criminal investigation into these alleged actions by Planned Parenthood. These two bills being debated today, of which I am a proud cosponsor, are the necessary next steps. I urge my colleagues to support this legislation and to support life. Thank you, Mr. Speaker. I yield the remainder of my time. Please click here to view or download Carter's floor speech on Planned Parenthood.
09.16.2015	U.S. Senator Johnny Isakson, R-Ga., and U.S. Representative Earl L. “Buddy” Carter, R-Ga.-01, have introduced legislation to allow the expansion of the Fort Frederica National Monument on St. Simons Island. Companion bills in the United States Senate and the United States House of Representatives, S. 2024 and H.R. 3480, will increase the maximum number of acres that may be included in the monument from 250 acres to 525 acres. Due to current statute, legislation is required to expand the authorized boundary and remove the 250-acre ceiling established by Congress in 1958. “Expanding the boundary of Georgia’s historic Fort Frederica National Monument will add to the historical significance of the monument,” said Isakson. “I am proud to introduce this legislation with Congressman Buddy Carter in order to ensure that all of the historical elements of the monument are preserved for visitors and Georgians alike for decades to come.” “I am pleased to introduce this legislation with Senator Isakson to preserve the history and legacy or our area for Georgians and visitors for many generations to come,” Carter said. “As important artifacts are discovered from the past, this legislation is necessary for the Park Service to be able to protect it for the future.” The areas being assessed by the National Park Service for inclusion in the Fort Frederica National Monument are within the direct viewshed of the park including, the fort, King’s magazine, tabby ruins of soldiers’ barracks, and other trails. The areas were once used by the British Town of Frederica founded in 1736 by General James Edward Oglethorpe. Based on archival data and a reconnaissance study, there is a high potential that the remains of a colonial cannon battery, Point Battery, exists within the southern area. The northern area is believed to have been used as a campground for troops in 1743.
09.11.2015	Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (Ga-01) voted to reject the Obama Administration’s nuclear deal with Iran. “Some say this deal is a legacy building deal for President Obama and I agree but it won’t be the kind of legacy he is looking for,” Carter said. “This is not just a bad deal for America; it is a dangerous deal for the entire world. It rewards the world’s leading terrorist regime while exposing our allies and launching a nuclear arms race in the most unstable region in the world. We must reject this deal and stand strong as a country resolute in our pursuit of freedom and justice, stand with our allies, and stand with the American people who overwhelmingly oppose this deal.” The Iran nuclear deal: Iran gets most everything it wants. Iran gets tens of billions of dollars in sanctions relief upfront while it is reintegrated into the global economy, is continuing to frustrate international inspectors on its past bomb work, and in fifteen years is allowed an internationally recognized nuclear program capable of quickly enriching material for multiple nuclear weapons. Risks a Regional Arms Race. This deal will likely set off an arms race in the already volatile Middle East. As Iran is granted industrial enrichment, countries like Saudi Arabia will likely follow—keeping their options open in case Iran rushes toward the bomb. America loses leverage while Iran gains leverage. This deal removes key sanctions on Iran’s ballistic missiles and support for terrorism. Yet, if the U.S. moves to re-impose sanctions on Iran for these dangerous activities or ongoing human rights abuses, Iran could use a “nuclear snapback”— claiming we’re violating the deal and threatening to rush towards the bomb. Russia Wins Big. Putin came out on top, working with Iran at the last minute to gut the UN arms embargo so Russia can sell the terrorist regime millions in weapons. Carter has raised concerns and fought for Congressional oversight throughout negotiations of the deal. In March, Carter sent a bipartisan letter to President Obama with Representative Ed Royce (Ca-39), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, and 365 other House Members underscoring the “grave and urgent issues that have arisen” relating to the ongoing nuclear negotiations with Iran. Additionally, Carter voted in support of H.R. 1191, the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act, ensuring Congress has a review period and final approval of the deal. Yesterday, Carter voted in support of H. Res. 411 to restart the clock on the review period until all information is provided to Congress on the negotiations with Iran. Carter is also a cosponsor of H. Res. 410 which would recognize the Iran Agreement as a treaty which would require two thirds approval from the Senate rather than disapproval from both chambers of Congress.
09.11.2015	Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (Ga-01) continued his work to prevent the Obama Administration from moving forward with a nuclear agreement with Iran by voting to strip the President of his ability to lift economic sanctions on the terrorist regime. Ending economic sanctions against Iran would release $150 billion in Iranian assets currently frozen abroad and generate additional economic activity in the country. “We all know this massive payout won’t be spent on schools, hospitals or the needs of Iranian people,” Carter said. “The reality is that billions of dollars will be spent on new weapons, cracking down on pro-democracy activists inside Iran, and continuing to spread terrorism around the world. These longstanding sanctions helped bring Iran to its knees and now the President is eager take off the pressure. Eliminating these sanctions is paving the way for Iran to threaten the safety of Americans and our allies around the world like Israel. This deal hands a hostile regime a huge win while putting American families in danger. I refuse to stand idly as we allow Iran to obtain tools to terrorize our homeland and the world.” Under the Agreement, Iran will have access to $100 billion to $150 billion in hard currency, mainly oil sales proceeds, which it has been unable to repatriate to its Central Bank. Banks around the world, particularly those in South Korea and Japan holding the funds, have been cooperating with U.S. sanctions by refusing to transfer those assets to Iran. Economists estimate that Iran’s economy will grow from 2% to as much as 9% in the first year after sanctions are lifted.
09.10.2015	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (Ga-01) today spoke on the floor of the United States House of Representatives against what he believes "will be one of the most consequential votes in the history of this body," the Iran nuclear deal. While on the floor, Carter spoke of the grave dangers the flawed Iran nuclear deal poses to the safety of the American people and our allies around the world. "Look only to those who know Iran best, its neighbors, who universally oppose the deal," Carter said. "Why? Because it is built on trusting a regime that has cheated on international agreements time and again and because it will launch a nuclear arms race in the most unstable region in the world." He also strongly urged his colleagues to reject the deal. "We can support this deal and stand with a regime that spreads terror around the world, leads its people in the chants of 'Death to America!' and whose leader refers to our country as the Great Satan," Carter said. "Or we reject the deal and stand strong as a country resolute in our pursuit of freedom and justice, stand with our allies like Israel, and stand with the American people who overwhelmingly oppose this deal." Click here to view or download Carter's floor speech Full Transcript: Mr. Speaker, I rise today to discuss what I believe will be one of the most consequential votes in the history of this body. A fundamental duty of the federal government – so much so that it was enshrined in the preamble to our Constitution – is to provide for the common defense. We must ask ourselves: will this deal enhance the safety and security of the American people? The answer is clearly ‘no.' On the contrary, it imperils the United States and our allies around the world. Look only to those who know Iran best, its neighbors, who universally oppose the deal. Why? Because it is built on trusting a regime that has cheated on international agreements time and again and because it will launch a nuclear arms race in the most unstable region in the world. So today we have a choice and, to me, the choice is clear. We can support this deal and stand with a regime that spreads terror around the world, leads its people in chants of “Death to America!” and whose leader refers to our country as the “Great Satan.” Or we reject the deal and stand strong as a country resolute in our pursuit of freedom and justice, stand with our allies like Israel, and stand with the American people who overwhelmingly oppose this deal. I know where I stand. I urge my colleagues to join me in rejecting this deal and sending a clear signal to the world that we will not accept a nuclear Iran. I yield back the balance of my time. Please click here to view or download Carter's floor speech on the nuclear deal with Iran.
09.10.2015	Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (Ga-01) voted to halt President Obama’s proposed nuclear deal with Iran until all documents – including reported secret side deals – are turned over to Congress for review. The move comes as Carter and others argue the Obama Administration has not lived up to its requirements under a congressional review bill signed into law in May. “President Obama is trying to ram rod this dangerous deal through without abiding by the terms of a law he himself signed just months ago,” said Carter. “The 60-day clock cannot start until Congress, and thereby the American people, has all the details of this poorly negotiated deal which could have serious ramifications on our national security. With the safety of the American people at risk, this is too important an issue to rush through in blatant disregard of the law.” Senior Obama Administration officials including National Security Adviser Susan Rice have acknowledged secret side deals between Iran and the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) which would be charged with enforcing any nuclear agreement. While the Administration has been informed of their contents, they have not provided the documents to Congress for review. The measure approved by the House today specifies the Obama Administration has failed to abide by the terms of the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act of 2015. That law requires the terms of any nuclear agreement with Iran to be transmitted to Congress to be reviewed for up to sixty days. As such, the Obama Administration would be unable to begin enforcing the terms of the agreement. “Dangerous ‘secret deals’ that the law explicitly requires Congressional oversight of have been withheld from Congress and the American people,” Carter said. “The vote on the Iran nuclear deal is one of the most consequential votes in the history of this body. While I’ve seen enough to know that I strongly oppose this deal, I demand that the Obama administration provide Congress with all information related to these dangerous negotiations that will impact the safety and security of our homeland and the entire world.” Carter is also a cosponsor of H. Res. 410 which would recognize the Iran agreement as a treaty which would require two-thirds approval from the Senate rather than disapproval from both chambers of Congress.
09.03.2015	Homerville, GA – Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (GA-1) touted his efforts to reform education by turning power back to states, school systems, and parents this week as visited Clinch County Elementary and Middle Schools in Homerville. During the stop the freshman representative spoke with teachers, students, and school system leaders about the need to craft local solutions rather than rely on one-size-fits-all mandates out of Washington. “Students in Clinch County and all around Georgia are best served by education plans crafted by those who know them best: parents, teachers, and communities,” said Carter. “I’m fighting to take power away from Washington bureaucrats and return it where it belongs. Doing so will help tap the potential I see in these students and all those I meet with as I travel across our district.” Serving on the House Education and the Workforce Committee, Carter helped advance legislation earlier this year that would: • replace national accountability scheme based on high stakes testing with state-led accountability systems for measuring student and school performance; • prevent the Department of Education from forcing states into adopting Common Core or any other nationalized standards; • ensure parents have the information they need to hold local schools accountable; • eliminate more than 65 ineffective, duplicative, and unnecessary programs, replacing them with a Local Academic Flexible grant to help schools support students; • empower parents with more school choice options by continuing support for magnet and charter school opportunities; and • strengthen efforts to improve student performance among targeted student populations, including English learners and homeless children. After the visit, Carter said he was impressed with what he saw. “It’s always great to be in Homerville but especially to be at a school here at the beginning of the school year,” he said. “I love getting to speak with the students, hear about their interests, and see the optimism in their eyes. Their optimism is infections and helped restore my hope for the future and desire to continue my work to ensure they have the same or better opportunities than those who came before them.” Carter was sworn in to his first term in Congress earlier this year representing the First Congressional District of Georgia which encompasses all or part of 17 counties in Southeast Georgia including Clinch County. ### share: f t Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (GA-1) touted his efforts to reform education by turning power back to states, school systems, and parents this week as visited Clinch County Elementary and Middle Schools in Homerville. During the stop the freshman representative spoke with teachers, students, and school system leaders about the need to craft local solutions rather than rely on one-size-fits-all mandates out of Washington. “Students in Clinch County and all around Georgia are best served by education plans crafted by those who know them best: parents, teachers, and communities,” said Carter. “I’m fighting to take power away from Washington bureaucrats and return it where it belongs. Doing so will help tap the potential I see in these students and all those I meet with as I travel across our district.” Serving on the House Education and the Workforce Committee, Carter helped advance legislation earlier this year that would: • replace national accountability scheme based on high stakes testing with state-led accountability systems for measuring student and school performance; • prevent the Department of Education from forcing states into adopting Common Core or any other nationalized standards; • ensure parents have the information they need to hold local schools accountable; • eliminate more than 65 ineffective, duplicative, and unnecessary programs, replacing them with a Local Academic Flexible grant to help schools support students; • empower parents with more school choice options by continuing support for magnet and charter school opportunities; and • strengthen efforts to improve student performance among targeted student populations, including English learners and homeless children. After the visit, Carter said he was impressed with what he saw. “It’s always great to be in Homerville but especially to be at a school here at the beginning of the school year,” he said. “I love getting to speak with the students, hear about their interests, and see the optimism in their eyes. Their optimism is infections and helped restore my hope for the future and desire to continue my work to ensure they have the same or better opportunities than those who came before them.” Carter was sworn in to his first term in Congress earlier this year representing the First Congressional District of Georgia which encompasses all or part of 17 counties in Southeast Georgia including Clinch County. ###
08.13.2015	Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (GA-01) today called on the Obama Administration to make its analysis of a proposed State Department training facility public. The Office of Management and Budget’s (OMB) review, which Carter recently read personally, makes clear that utilizing and expanding existing facilities at the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center (FLETC) is more efficient and effective than building duplicative facilities at the proposed Foreign Affairs Training Center (FAST-C) at Fort Pickett, Virginia. While the report is not classified, the OMB has thus far refused to publicly release the documents. “The Obama Administration’s stonewalling of Congress and the American people on this issue has got to come to an end,” said Carter. “The White House’s own analysis lays bare any illusion that building a duplicative new facility is a better use of taxpayer dollars than maximizing existing resources. Releasing this report would better inform the debate over how to best meet the training needs of those protecting American outposts around the world. Continuing to stifle congressional oversight serves to do little more than delay bringing this important training online.” Carter’s reading of the OMB analysis would indicate: • locating training facilities at FLETC would save taxpayers $812 million over 10 years; • FLETC would be able to accommodate students more quickly than FASTC; • not only is FLETC able to handle the complex scheduling needs of DS but could assist in the development and refinement of curriculum; • FLETC can accommodate the training requirements laid out by DS; • Transportation savings of locating FASTC at Fort Pickett would not exceed the capital cost savings of utilizing FLETC; and • existing support services at FLETC provide an added value of $625 million over the State Department’s attempts to reduce its construction budget by removing such facilities. To view a copy of the letter sent to OMB Director Shaun Donovan, please click here. Background: In 2013, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) submitted a proposal to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) to service State’s training needs by augmenting the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center (FLETC), in Brunswick, Ga., which provides security training for DHS and 91 federal partner organizations, including the State Department, as well as state and local law enforcement agencies. FLETC supports approximately 2,300 jobs in Glynn County, Georgia and more than 5,000 jobs throughout the state. Around the country, FLETC supports nearly 19,000 jobs with personal income totaling more than $975 million. In its 2013 proposal to OMB, DHS included the construction of new buildings, weapons ranges, and transportation costs to meet the requirements of State’s original FAST-C master plan. FLETC estimated that this new construction would cost $287 million. By leveraging its existing facilities to meet State’s training needs, FLETC estimates its proposal could also achieve significant cost savings over the long term. The State Department proposed to construct the FAST-C facility in Virginia at a cost of $461 million. However, the State Department’s initial estimate of $950 million suggests there is an almost certain likelihood of cost escalation beyond the current $461 million proposal during construction. In late 2013, OMB examined the FLETC and Fort Pickett plans. At this time, Chairman Royce and the House Committee on Foreign Affairs encouraged OMB to determine which proposal addresses the State Department’s training needs in the most fiscally responsible way. The Committee also requested that the Government Accountability Office perform an independent analysis of the proposals in September 2014. The Committee was then made aware that OMB analysts had completed a written analysis recommending that the State Department pursue its diplomatic security training at FLETC. However, in April 2014, the Administration confirmed that it planned to adopt the State Department’s proposal to build FAST-C at Fort Pickett in Virginia instead of FLETC. On May 19, 2014, Chairman Royce requested a copy of OMB’s analysis. After OMB failed to provide the information to Congress, Chairman Royce issued a subpoena to OMB for the documents. After many official requests through relevant Committees, letters and phone calls, Carter viewed the OMB report on July, 30, 2015. Carter sent a letter to the OMB on August 11, 2015 requesting that the report be made public. Carter represents the First District of Georgia where FLETC is located. Carter is a member of the House Homeland Security Committee with direct oversight over the Department of Homeland Security and the FLETC.
08.04.2015	Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (GA-01) has introduced the Dental and Optometric Care Access (DOC Access) Act, to provide fairness in contracts between doctors and insurers to increase the quality of care for patients and eliminate anti-competitive practices. Current mandates in insurance provider agreements require doctors to charge patients for services that are not covered under vision or dental plans at unpredictable and unusual rates. The practice is especially troublesome in communities where a limited number of insurance plans control the market share and a provider has no choice but to accept an entire contract even if some terms harm their patients’ care and practice. The DOC Access Act allows dentists and optometrists to charge a fair and customary amount for the services that are not covered under an insurance plan rather than the insurer’s mandated fee schedule. “This legislation is necessary to provide doctors with greater flexibility in meeting the needs of their patients,” Carter said. “By prohibiting insurance providers from forcing doctors to participate in restrictive insurance plans or networks, doctors will be able to charge reasonable fees for the care Americans need. This legislation is a strong and necessary step in bringing free market principles back into healthcare by removing anti-competitive business practices.” Thirty-five states – including Georgia – have enacted similar legislation addressing the coverage and fees for non-covered services. However, many insurance providers are able to sidestep these laws because the offered plans are regulated on the federal level instead of on the state level. “I am thrilled,” said Maxine Feinberg, D.D.S., president of the American Dental Association. “And I speak on behalf of the ADA’s 158,000 members in thanking Rep. Carter for introducing this legislation, which would prohibit dental insurance companies from interfering in the doctor-patient relationship by dictating prices for services they don’t even cover. State after state have passed similar laws, but federal action is necessary in order to apply the prohibition to all health care coverage products.” “Rep. Buddy Carter’s leadership in Congress and his determination to expand access to the essential eye health and vision care doctors of optometry provide will make patients healthier and insurers and plans more accountable,” said American Optometric Association President Steven A. Loomis, O.D. "The DOC Access Act —which the AOA is proud to support – was written to ensure that doctors and patients, not insurance and plan executives, are again at the center of important, personal and personalized health care decisions.” The only pharmacist in Congress, Carter owned and operated community pharmacies for more than thirty years. He previously served in the Georgia General Assembly and as Mayor of Pooler, Georgia where he used his business and health care experience to advocate for returning free market principles back into healthcare.
07.30.2015	After demanding to see their findings, Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (GA-01) today viewed critical documents from the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) which justify that the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center (FLETC) is the better option for the State Department to conduct foreign affairs security training as opposed to constructing a new Foreign Affairs Training Center (FAST-C) at Fort Pickett in Blackstone, Virginia. The State Department plans to construct a FAST-C training center in Virginia at a cost of $461 million instead of expanding and utilizing the Department of Homeland Security’s FLETC to provide State Department diplomatic security training, as is currently taking place, at half the price. The OMB report viewed by Carter today reviewed construction costs, training, location and synergies, construction schedule, life support services, and provided a final opinion. The final opinion of OMB in this report recommends moving forward with construction at FLETC as opposed to Fort Pickett. The report also raises concerns that the estimated cost of the Fort Pickett site will rise beyond the estimated $461 million. “OMB has now confirmed what we have known all along,” Carter said. “The Administration agrees that FLETC is the better option to conduct foreign affairs security training. The report I viewed today provides a clear justification that FLETC can accommodate this training at a much lower cost than the Fort Pickett plan.” In 2013, the OMB examined the two proposals. Since then, the House Committee on Foreign Affairs was made aware that OMB analysts had completed a written analysis recommending that the State Department pursue its diplomatic security training at FLETC. While Congress has gone to many measures to see this report, including a subpoena, OMB continued to stonewall Congress and failed to provide their findings while the State Department announced they would move forward with construction at Fort Pickett. “It is blatantly clear now why the Administration has been stonewalling Congress by keeping this report under wraps,” Carter said. “The Administration clearly believed that if they kept this report a secret they would be able to move forward with a politically motivated plan that wastes hundreds of millions of precious taxpayer dollars. Well, the truth is out now and there is no longer room for debate. The State Department has no justification to move forward with the Fort Pickett plan and I will do everything in my power to ensure their politically motivated plan is put to a halt. The State Department can no longer hide behind OMB’s stonewalling tactics. The Obama Administration has found themselves that FLETC is the better option and they now need to devote their efforts and resources on training diplomatic security at FLETC rather than continuing to waste time with other options.” Background: In 2013, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) submitted a proposal to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) to service State’s training needs by augmenting the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center (FLETC), in Brunswick, Ga., which provides security training for DHS and 91 federal partner organizations, including the State Department, as well as state and local law enforcement agencies. In its 2013 proposal to OMB, DHS included the construction of new buildings, weapons ranges, and transportation costs to meet the requirements of State’s original FAST-C master plan. FLETC estimated that this new construction would cost $287 million. By leveraging its existing facilities to meet State’s training needs, FLETC estimates its proposal could also achieve significant cost savings over the long term. The State Department proposed to construct the FAST-C facility in Virginia at a cost of $461 million. However, the State Department’s initial estimate of $950 million suggests there is an almost certain likelihood of cost escalation beyond the current $461 million proposal during construction. In late 2013, OMB examined the FLETC and Fort Pickett plans. At this time, Chairman Royce and the House Committee on Foreign Affairs encouraged OMB to determine which proposal addresses the State Department’s training needs in the most fiscally responsible way. The Committee also requested that the Government Accountability Office perform an independent analysis of the proposals in September 2014. The Committee was then made aware that OMB analysts had completed a written analysis recommending that the State Department pursue its diplomatic security training at FLETC. However, in April 2014, the Administration confirmed that it planned to adopt the State Department’s proposal to build FAST-C at Fort Pickett in Virginia instead of FLETC. On May 19, 2014, Chairman Royce requested a copy of OMB’s analysis. After OMB failed to provide the information to Congress, Chairman Royce issued a subpoena to OMB for the documents. After many official requests through relevant Committees, letters and phone calls, Carter viewed the OMB report today on July, 30, 2015. Carter represents the First District of Georgia where FLETC is located. Carter is a member of the House Homeland Security Committee with direct oversight over the Department of Homeland Security and the FLETC.
07.29.2015	Representative Earl L. "Buddy" Carter, R-Ga.-01 and U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson, R-Ga., and David Perdue, R-Ga., along with the entire Georgia U.S. House of Representatives delegation, today urged the administration to make the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project a top priority for its fiscal year 2017 budget recommendations. In a letter to Assistant Secretary of the Army Jo-Ellen Darcy, the Georgia congressional delegation called for the Army Corps of Engineers to match its budget request with the public commitments for federal support expressed by several members of the Obama administration. The total cost of the Savannah Harbor project is $706 million, and the federal government’s share of that cost is $440 million. The state of Georgia has already contributed its $266 million share of the project’s cost. If the federal government allots less than $100 million a year to the Savannah Harbor project for fiscal years 2017-2020, the project cannot be completed by 2020 and the resulting delays could ultimately cost taxpayers an extra $200 million. Rep. Carter, along with Sens. Isakson and Perdue, also met with Assistant Secretary Darcy today to reiterate the importance of the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project to Georgia and the entire Southeast. Click here to view or download photos of Rep. Carter and Sens. Isakson and Perdue meeting with Assistant Secretary Darcy “The key to the success of this project will be whether the administration’s budget proposal next year includes at least the approximately $100 million that [the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers] has identified as the level that would keep the project on the path to timely completion,” writes the Georgia congressional delegation. “By every measure, our ability to grow our economy is tied to our ability to have competitive international shipping rates, and those rates are determined by having cost-efficient port infrastructure. And no port infrastructure project in the nation can more efficiently and more quickly stimulate job growth in our country than SHEP.” Background: The Savannah Harbor Expansion Project was authorized in the Water Resources and Development Act of 1999 to deepen the Savannah River from its current 42-foot depth to as much as 48 feet. The project is being undertaken in anticipation of an expansion of the Panama Canal that will increase the maximum draft of vessels travelling to and from the East Coast from 39.5 feet to as much as 50 feet. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers estimates that the harbor deepening project will bring $174 million in annual net benefits to the United States. For the Post-Panamax II vessels, the extra five feet of depth will allow for an additional 3,600 cargo containers in each transit, an increase of 78 percent. The deepening project will cost approximately $706 million, including construction and environmental mitigation costs. The federal government has a role in funding this project because the U.S. Constitution gives authority over navigable waters.
07.28.2015	The U.S. House of Representatives today overwhelmingly passed legislation backed by Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (GA-01) to limit the federal government’s ability to enact new regulations without congressional approval. The Regulations from the Executive in Need of Scrutiny (REINS) Act would require congressional approval for any federal regulation with an economic impact of $100 million or more. “America’s hardworking job creators are under attack by federal regulations,” Carter said. “Since President Obama took office in 2008, more small businesses have closed than opened. Having owned and operated a small business myself, I can tell you overregulation is a direct cause. Small businesses are the backbone of our nation and the cost of complying continues to increase. In Georgia alone, 1.5 million workers are employed by small businesses and it is past time to cut the regulatory red tape. The REINS Act will work to change the trajectory of America’s job creators to build them up instead of bringing them down.” The Congressional Budget Office estimates that over the last five years, the Obama Administration has issued 82 “major rules” – or rules with more than $100 million in economic impact – each year. These regulations are especially hard for America’s small businesses. The REINS Act passed the House today by a vote of 243-165 and now goes to the Senate for further consideration.
07.27.2015	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (GA-01) joined Chairman Jason Chaffetz (UT-03) and members of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee today in calling for the immediate removal of Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Commissioner John Koskinen from his position. Click here to view or download Rep. Carter's call for Commissioner Koskinen's removal Congress has been investigating the IRS's treatment of conservative tax-exempt groups for over two years. So far, Congress has reviewed more than a million pages of documents, conducted more than 50 transcribed interviews and held several public hearings. Despite this, the IRS has still not provided the answers to what happened to the Lois Lerner emails that were destroyed after a preservation order was given. The IRS could have prevented the destruction of up to 24,000 relevant emails. Instead, Commissioner Koskinen has been unwilling to provide assistance, and has provided only misleading statements to Congress. “I join Chairman Chaffetz and other members of this Committee today in calling for the President to remove Commissioner Koskinen,” Carter said. “Commissioner Koskinen has failed to comply with a Congressional subpoena, he has failed to produce, and more importantly preserve, over 24,000 emails. He has failed to tell the truth to this Congressional body. It is time for new leadership at the IRS. The American people deserve to have confidence in the IRS. We can only do that and we can only move forward by having new leadership. So I join my colleagues here in encouraging the President to remove the Commissioner so that we can move forward in restoring the trust in the IRS that the American people deserve.” Carter also sent a letter to President Obama today with Chairman Chaffetz and 19 other members of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee providing evidence of the violations on the part of the IRS and Commissioner Koskinen in properly complying with both a congressional subpoena and its own internal preservation order. A copy of the letter can be viewed or downloaded here. Click here to watch and download Carter's call for President Obama to remove IRS Commissioner Koskinen.
07.23.2015	Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (GA-01) voted in support of H.R. 3009, the Enforce the Law for Sanctuary Cities Act, today to eliminate specific federal grants for so-called “sanctuary cities” which refuse to enforce or cooperate with federal immigration law. Recently, 32-year-old Kate Steinle was tragically murdered in one such city – San Francisco – allegedly by an illegal alien who is a seven-time felon. “This is Congress’ first step toward addressing this serious issue and I’m going to make sure it is not the last,” said Carter. “As a former mayor, I find it appalling that anyone serving in public office would create a safe haven for dangerous illegal aliens who will take the lives of others like Kate Steinle. While eliminating specific grant programs for sanctuary cities is a step in the right direction, federal funding should be completely prohibited if they continue to refuse to cooperate in the interest of public safety. These cities are not just imperiling their own citizens, they are putting at risk the safety of citizens here at home in Georgia and across the county. Taxpayers should not be on the hook to subsidize these misguided and dangerous policies and I will not waver in my fight to completely eliminate federal funding.” Carter has cosponsored H.R. 3002, the Mobilizing Against Sanctuary Cities Act, to prohibit all federal funding for a minimum of one year to any state or local government which has a policy or law that prevents them from assisting immigration authorities in enforcing federal immigration law. Carter is a member of the House Homeland Security Committee which is charged with oversight of federal border security.
07.22.2015	Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (GA-01) is fighting to eliminate all federal funding streams to Planned Parenthood Federation of America in the wake of a second undercover video alleging that Planned Parenthood dismembers unborn children and sells their body parts. To ensure taxpayer funds are not going to Planned Parenthood, Carter has signed on as an original cosponsor of H.R. 3134 to place an immediate moratorium on all federal funding streams to Planned Parenthood, including Medicaid, while Congress conducts a thorough investigation into the allegations. A 2015 Government Accountability Office report revealed that Planned Parenthood received $1.2 billion in funding from Medicaid alone over a three year period. Additionally, Carter is a cosponsor of H.R. 217 to eliminate funding for abortion providers through Title X. Title X has historically been a major source of federal funding for Planned Parenthood. “The videos alleging that Planned Parenthood has been harvesting infant organs and body parts are nothing short of atrocious,” Carter said. “These videos give us a direct look into the reprehensible culture at Planned Parenthood. Precious taxpayer funds should never be used on abortions, but it is especially unacceptable when these illegal and horrific practices are going on. I will continue to fight diligently to ensure that federal funding does not go to Planned Parenthood or any other abortion provider.” A staunch defender of the right to life, Carter recently voted in support of H.R. 36, the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act, to ban abortions nationwide 20 weeks after conception except in the cases of incest and rape. Carter is also a cosponsor of H.R. 426, the Sanctity of Human Life Act, which protects life from conception.
07.21.2015	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (GA-01) is working to allow military personnel with firearms training to carry handguns on military bases and other installations. The move comes in the wake of the tragic terrorist attack in Chattanooga, Tennessee where five service members were murdered. To ensure servicemembers are able to protect themselves, Carter has cosponsored H.R. 3115, the Enhancing Safety at Military Installations Act, to require the Department of Defense to permit members of the Armed Forces who have received firearms training and are authorized to use firearms to carry military-issued firearms on bases and at recruitment facilities. Currently, most servicemembers are prohibited from carrying military-issued firearms on military bases and recruitment centers. “As the proud Representative of four military installations in the First District, ensuring the protection of all servicemembers is a top priority of mine,” Carter said. “It is clear from senseless terror attacks like the tragedy in Chattanooga that military installations and recruitment centers have become terrorist targets, yet Department of Defense policy does not allow servicemembers to protect themselves. We cannot continue to allow the brave men and women who defend our nation to be sitting ducks here at home. Terrorism exists abroad and domestically and our military personnel must be armed and able to defend themselves at all times.” Carter represents Fort Stewart and Hunter Army Airfield, Naval Submarine Base Kings Bay, and Moody Air Force Base in the United States House of Representatives.
07.16.2015	Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (GA-01) is working to strip federal funding for so-called “sanctuary cities” which resist or refuse to cooperate with federal immigration enforcement. The move comes in the wake of the tragic murder of 32-year-old Kate Steinle in one such city – San Francisco – allegedly by an illegal alien who is a seven-time felon. To crack down on the practice, Carter has cosponsored Representative Lou Barletta’s (PA-11) legislation H.R. 3002, the Mobilizing Against Sanctuary Cities Act, to prohibit any federal funding for a minimum of one year to any state or local government which has a policy or law that prevents them from assisting immigration authorities in enforcing federal immigration law. “No entity that refuses to cooperate getting these criminals off the street should have the benefit of federal taxpayer dollars,” said Carter. “As a former Mayor, I find it appalling that anyone serving in public office would create a safe haven for dangerous illegal aliens who will take the lives of others like Kate Steinle. How many violent crimes have to occur before we take a stand and say ‘enough’?” Immigration and Customs Enforcement reported that 1,800 illegal immigrants released by sanctuary cities last year were charged with 7,490 new crimes, including the horrifying offenses of rape and child abuse. More than 1,000 of the offenders remain free. “These cities are not just imperiling their own citizens, they are putting at risk the safety of citizens across the country,” Carter said. “If they continue to refuse to cooperate in the interest of public safety, Congress must act to ensure taxpayers are not on the hook to subsidize these misguided and dangerous policies.” Carter has also cosponsored Representative Jody Hice’s (GA-10) legislation H.R. 2793, the TRAC Act, to require Immigration and Customs Enforcement to proactively register illegal immigrants convicted of a sex crime on the local sex offender registry. Carter is a member of the House Homeland Security Committee which is charged with oversight of federal border security.
07.14.2015	Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (GA-01) today reacted to the announcement of an agreement on the Iranian nuclear deal. "I fear this will be a legacy making deal for the Obama Administration but not the legacy it is looking to make,” Carter said. “This dangerous deal threatens to unleash a nuclear arms race in the most unstable region in the world, imperils our closest ally Israel, and signals to other regimes that America will not maintain its resolve to combat extremism.” Carter has raised concerns and fought for Congressional oversight throughout negotiations of the deal. In March, Carter sent a bipartisan letter to President Obama with Representative Ed Royce (CA-39), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, and 365 other House Members underscoring the “grave and urgent issues that have arisen” relating to the ongoing nuclear negotiations with Iran. Additionally, Carter voted in support of H.R. 1191, the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act, ensuring Congress has a review period and final approval of the deal. “Congress has sixty days to review this deal and I intend to use every minute to educate the American people on the ramifications it could have," Carter said. "The American people, through their elected representatives, must have the final say on this deal to ensure that the Iranian regime is held accountable and the threat of their nuclear program is eliminated. We cannot hand Iran an unabridged opportunity to increase its nuclear capabilities or reportedly remove the United Nations arms embargo while they work hand-in-hand with terrorist organizations. Removing the arms embargo on Iran will arm those fighting against the US and our allies while the billions of dollars in increased economic incentives are spent on weapons, not on the needs of the people of Iran. In the end, no deal is better than a bad deal." Click here to view the letter sent to President Obama raising concerns with the negotiations.
07.10.2015	Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (GA-01) voted today to expedite the discovery, development and delivery of new medical treatments for thousands of diseases with no known cure while saving taxpayer dollars. The House passed H.R. 6, the 21st Century Cures Act today with Carter’s support. “As the only pharmacist in Congress, I’ve seen firsthand the lifesaving innovations that American inventors have brought to health care over the last 30 years,” Carter said. “All too often, though, innovations are held up by unnecessary government road blocks standing in the way of bringing these treatments to the patients they could save. It is unacceptable that patients and families could wait up to 15 years for a new therapy because the federal government cannot keep up. I am pleased to support this bill today because it provides the necessary reforms to give scientists the ability to focus on discovering cures and delivering results instead of being held back by overly burdensome bureaucracy.” While paving the way for a new era of medical innovation, H.R. 6 includes several permanent reforms in the Medicare and Medicaid programs that, according to the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office, will reduce the deficit by $500 million over the next decade. “Not only will this bill save lives, it will also work to reduce our national debt and save American jobs,” Carter said. “H.R. 6 will develop cures instead of exacerbating the heavy costs of chronic illnesses that burden taxpayers while increasing US competitiveness around the globe. All Georgians and all Americans have been touched in some way by an incurable disease and it’s time to find cures, not just treatments.” H.R. 6, 21st Century Cures Act: Removes barriers to increased research capabilities; Incorporates the patient perspective into the drug development and regulatory review process; Measures success and identifies diseases earlier through personalized medicine; Modernizes clinical trials; Removes regulatory uncertainty for the development of new medical apps; Provides new incentives for the development of drugs for rare diseases; and Helps the entire biomedical ecosystem coordinate more efficiently to find faster cures.
07.10.2015	Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (GA-01) this week demanded answers from federal officials about the State Department’s costly attempt to duplicate existing capabilities at the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center near Brunswick, Georgia. In a hearing of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee, Carter questioned officials from both the State Department and the Government Accountability Office on why the agency continued to move forward with its plans which some estimates believe could cost taxpayers twice the price. During questioning of Gregory B. Starr, Assistant Secretary for Diplomatic Security, Carter raised serious concerns about State’s wasteful plan, “…we’re here to discuss cost over-runs and the waste of taxpayers’ money and there’s no better example than this. You’ve got a facility in FLETC, that trains over 91 agencies, but yet you’re saying that you’ve got to have one of your own; that you can’t utilize this. And I’m having trouble understanding that when FLETC has already said that they can do this at almost half the cost.” Carter went on to make it clear that he will not stand for State’s actions and will continue the fight for FLETC. “I’m going to tell you that I’m going to continue to fight this because I think you are wasting taxpayers’ money. I think you’ve got a perfectly fine facility that can be utilized without building another, and without getting us further into debt, and without wasting taxpayers’ money like the State Department has done time and time again.” Click here to view or download Carter's questioning Recently, Carter and Senators Johnny Isakson and David Perdue were joined by Reps Sanford Bishop (GA-02), Lynn Westmoreland (GA-03), Tom Price (GA-06), Rob Woodall (GA-07), Austin Scott (GA-08), Jody Hice (GA-10), Barry Loudermilk (GA-11), Rick Allen (GA-12), David Scott (GA-13), and Tom Graves (GA-14) in sending a letter to U.S. Government Accountability Office Comptroller General Gene Dodaro demanding a thorough and impartial review of the State Department’s existing proposals for its training center given the vast cost difference based on estimates by the State Department and the Department of Homeland Security between constructing the facility from scratch in Blackstone, Va., at the cost of $413 million, compared to estimated $272 million to retrofit the existing training center in Georgia. Background: In 2013, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) submitted a proposal to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) to service State’s training needs by augmenting the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center (FLETC), in Brunswick, Ga., which provides security training for DHS and 95 federal partner organizations, including the State Department, as well as state and local law enforcement agencies. In its 2013 proposal to OMB, DHS included the construction of new buildings, weapons ranges, and driving tracks to meet the requirements of State’s original FAST-C master plan. FLETC estimated that this new construction would cost $272 million. By leveraging its existing facilities to meet State’s training needs, FLETC estimates its proposal could also achieve significant cost savings over the long term. However, in April 2014, the Administration confirmed that it planned to adopt the State Department’s proposal to build FAST-C in Blackstone, Va. Click here to view and download Carter's questioning. Click here to view and download the letter to U.S. Government Accountability Office Comptroller General Gene Dodaro.
07.08.2015	Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (GA-01) responded to the United States Army’s announcement today that it will reduce the number of uniformed soldiers at Fort Stewart and Hunter Army Airfield by 950 as part of a national draw down of 40,000 troops. Click here to view and download Congressman Carter's reaction “With global instability on the rise and increasingly unpredictable threats, this draw down is short sighted," said Carter. "Cutting troops at this time flies in the face of reality. I believe the number one responsibility of the federal government is to provide a strong national defense and I am increasingly concerned that we will render ourselves unable to respond to the threats we face around the globe." The announced reduction in Army forces includes cuts to 4,350 soldiers from military installations in Georgia as part of the Department of Defense’s plans to reduce the Army from the troop strength of 490,000 to 450,000 by the end of 2017. Of the troops cut in Georgia, 3,400 will be eliminated from Fort Benning near Columbus and 950 from Fort Stewart. “Fort Stewart and Hunter Army Air Field is uniquely equipped and strategically located to deliver a devastating blow to our adversaries world-wide with its vast training areas, modern facilities and an extraordinary network of intermodal deployment options through nearby ports and on-post and nearby airports," Carter said. "With our unmatched capabilities, I remain optimistic for the future. We will continue fighting every day to attract new missions. Fort Stewart and Hunter Army Airfield remains the right place to grow." Fort Stewart and Hunter Army Air Field is the largest Army installation east of the Mississippi River and the home to the 3rd Infantry Division (ID). The “Rock of the Marne” has played an integral role in the Army dating back to World War I and up to present day Operation Resolute Support currently underway in Afghanistan. One of the reasons why the 3rd ID is able to preserve those levels of heightened readiness is because of the unique training capabilities soldiers have access to in Coastal Georgia. Fort Stewart and Hunter Army Air Field was recently the host to a large scale brigade-level training operation as part of Marne Focus, which included a collaborative effort between the Air Force and Army in executing a simulated Joint Air Attack Team exercise. In February, the 63d Expeditionary Signal Battalion was restationed at Fort Stewart bringing 492 soldiers and their families to the post. Most recently, Fort Stewart and Hunter Army Air Field was awarded with the Army Communities of Excellence Award for the sixth time in June. Carter represents Fort Stewart and Hunter Army Air Field in the United States Congress. Please click here to view and download Congressman Carter's reaction.
07.08.2015	Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (GA-01) voted in support of H.R. 5, the Student Success Act, today to improve K-12 education and reform the Elementary and Secondary Education Act, currently known as No Child Left Behind. “As a father and grandfather, I know firsthand how important it is for our children to have access to the best education possible,” Carter said. “It’s clear, however, that our education system is not adequately serving our children and it’s not going to be fixed by Washington bureaucrats who think they know what is best for our children. Our education system can only be fixed by those who know students best – parents, teachers, and communities.” H.R. 5 will reduce the federal footprint in education and restore local control while empowering parents and education leaders. It repeals out-of-touch teacher qualification programs and allows state and local officials to determine who is qualified to teach their children. It also eliminates excessive ineffective programs and prevents one-size-fits-all standards like Common Core. “The bill prohibits the federal government from coercing states into adopting standards, including the train wreck of Common Core,” Carter said. “Without the Student Success Act, the Department of Education could prohibit funds from being sent to Georgia unless we adopt Obama’s federally prescribed education standards. We all know that each child learns differently and at their own pace and they should not be punished for this. I voted for this bill to put restraints on the Washington intrusion into classrooms, rein in the Department of Education, and put the keys to our children’s education and future back in local control.” H.R. 5 – STUDENT SUCCESS ACT: Replaces the current national accountability scheme based on high stakes tests with state-led accountability systems, returning responsibility for measuring student and school performance to states and school districts. Ensures parents continue to have the information they need to hold local schools accountable. Eliminates more than 65 ineffective, duplicative, and unnecessary programs and replaces this maze of programs with a Local Academic Flexible Grant, helping schools better support students. Protects state and local autonomy over decisions in the classroom by preventing the Secretary of Education from coercing states into adopting Common Core or any other common standards or assessments, as well as reining in the secretary’s regulatory authority. Empowers parents with more school choice options by continuing support for magnet schools and expanding charter school opportunities, as well as allowing Title I funds to follow low-income children to the traditional public or charter school of the parent’s choice.
06.25.2015	In a 6-3 ruling, the U.S. Supreme Court today upheld controversial subsidies offered by the Obama Administration’s Internal Revenue Service to individuals purchasing insurance on federally-maintained health care exchanges. Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (GA-01), the only pharmacist in Congress, criticized the ruling and pledged to redouble his efforts to repeal and replace Obamacare. “The only thing worse for health care in America than Obamacare has been its implementation which clearly ignores the rule of law,” said Carter. “While this ruling is a deep disappointment to those who, like me, have seen the devastating impact of this train wreck of a law first hand, we cannot lose hope that we will prevail in repealing and replacing it with real reforms.” To that end, Carter joined the Republican Study Committee’s Health Care Task Force earlier this year in introducing H.R. 2653, the American Health Care Reform Act, to fully repeal Obamacare and create patient-centered reforms while bringing the free market back into our health care system. Among the reforms in the proposal are provisions that would: provide the same tax benefits to those purchasing health care coverage on the individual market as those with employer-sponsored coverage; expand federal support for high-risk pools and expand portability to increase insurance access for those with pre-existing conditions; allow for the purchase of health insurance across state lines; and give small businesses the ability to pool together to negotiate better rates. “With these commonsense, market-oriented reforms, we can empower all Americans to have access to quality health care coverage without expanding the role of government in our lives,” Carter said. “In contrast, Obamacare empowers government bureaucrats to drive up cost, take away choice, and eliminate innovation in the system.”
06.25.2015	The United States House of Representatives today passed Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter’s (GA-01) DHS FOIA Efficiency Act of 2015. The legislation unanimously passed the House and would require the Chief FOIA Officer at the Department of Homeland Security to improve and streamline the FOIA request process at the department to reduce their backlog and provide greater transparency in the FOIA process. “In what is supposed to be the most transparent administration in history, DHS has an unacceptable record when it comes to FOIA requests,” said Carter. “It boasts the largest backlog of any federal agency, was given a D+ for its handling of them by an independent watchdog and last year the backlog more than doubled. An agency cannot and should not be allowed to operate like this. This important legislation provides the desperately needed reforms to improve the process, eliminate duplication and significantly reduce the backlog at DHS while increasing transparency and accountability.” Carter recently discovered that President Obama’s executive actions on immigration could have created a surge in FOIA requests at DHS exacerbating the backlog. After inquiries from Carter, Karen Neuman, DHS Chief Privacy and FOIA Officer, admitted that “the FOIA backlog has more than doubled in part because we’ve received an enormous increase in the number of requests for Fiscal Year 2014.” Neuman additionally confirmed that a “significant number of requests are requested for immigration records.” It is likely that most of these requests seek immigration records to prepare for President Obama’s amnesty programs like Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) and Deferred Action for Parental Accountability (DAPA). “There has been a 182 percent increase in the number of FOIA requests at the Department of Homeland Security since the Obama Administration took over,” Carter said. “This outrageous increase is partly thanks to supporters of amnesty, including Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid, publicly encouraging those who would like to take advantage of the President’s executive orders to request their immigration records through the FOIA process – whether they are here legally or not. FOIA requests from illegal immigrants taking advantage of unconstitutional programs should never stand in the way of transparency for the American people.” H.R. 1615, the DHS FOIA Efficiency Act of 2015, was introduced as part of a greater legislative initiative from the House Committee on Homeland Security to curb waste, fraud, abuse and increase transparency at the DHS. Bill Summary: This bill will direct the Chief FOIA Officer of the Department of Homeland Security to make certain improvements in the implementation of section 552 of title 5, United States Code (commonly known as the Freedom of Information Act), to include: Finalize, update, and issue FOIA regulations for the Department of Homeland Security; Identify annual cost to the Department of implementing FOIA; Identify and eliminate unnecessary duplication in the course of processing FOIA requests; Develop a plan for electronic FOIA tracking; and Minimize the FOIA backlog. Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter represents the First District of Georgia. He serves as a member of the House Committee on Homeland Security as well as the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform and the Education and the Workforce Committee. To view Carter’s questioning of Karen Neuman, DHS Chief Privacy and FOIA Officer, please click here.
06.23.2015	Today, Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (GA-01) joined the United States Army at the Pentagon in Washington, D.C. to award Fort Stewart and Hunter Army Airfield with the Army Communities of Excellence (ACOE) Gold Award. “The award today proves what we’ve always known; Fort Stewart and Hunter are without a doubt the best army installations in the nation,” Carter said. “This award recognizes not only the best performing installation, but also the best community in the Army. As the Army considers manpower drawdowns, Fort Stewart and Hunter are clearly ready for the opposite. It’s remarkable that this is the 6th year they have taken the Gold Award and I’m confident that there will be many more to come.” The annual ACOE competition measures and recognizes the best performing installations and communities in the Army. This year marks the 6th time that Fort Stewart and Hunter Army Airfield have placed gold in the Army Communities of Excellence Awards. Fort Stewart-Hunter won gold in 2004, 2005, 2006, 2009, and 2012. Fort Stewart and Hunter Army Air Field are uniquely equipped and strategically located to deliver a devastating blow to our adversaries world-wide. It has vast training areas, modern facilities and an extraordinary network of intermodal deployment options through nearby ports and on-base and nearby airports. Carter represents Fort Stewart and Hunter Army Air Field in the United States Congress.
06.18.2015	Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (GA-01) joined a bipartisan majority today in voting to assert Congress’ role in and bring transparency and accountability to international trade negotiations. The Trade Priorities and Accountability Act, H.R. 2146, would establish Trade Promotion Authority (TPA), a process by which Congress lays out requirements for trade agreements to receive expedited consideration. “I again voted for TPA today because Georgia jobs are too important to be left in the hands of an untrustworthy President and the Democratic Party who sunk their own priorities to hinder free trade and American competitiveness,” Carter said. “President Obama has proven his complete disregard for our constitutional checks and balances and TPA prevents the President from entering into secret trade deals. Conservatives such as Senator Ted Cruz, Condoleezza Rice, the American Conservative Union and Americans for Tax Reform agree and have supported this bill because a vote against TPA is a vote to send American business and jobs to our competitors like China. I refuse to let that happen.” The House recently passed H.R. 1314, the Trade Act, to establish TPA but was hindered by procedures on the House floor. TPA will help deliver the strongest possible trade agreements that will boost American exports and benefit American workers, manufacturers, farmers, ranchers, and job creators. “TPA is critical for Georgia jobs and the economic prosperity of our local economy,” Carter said. “1.2 million jobs in Georgia depend on international trade and, with two of the fastest growing ports in the country here in the First District, there is a great opportunity to increase this number. Unfortunately, American job creators are not playing on a level playing field and our trading partners will continue stacking the deck without the best possible trade agreements. TPA will accelerate these much-needed trade deals and ensure the American people have the final say.”
06.12.2015	Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (GA-01) today joined a bipartisan majority in voting to assert Congress’ role in and bring transparency and accountability to international trade negotiations. The Trade Act, HR 1314, would establish Trade Promotion Authority (TPA), a process by which Congress lays out requirements for trade agreements to receive expedited consideration. “With two of the busiest and fastest growing ports in the nation, international trade is a critical factor in the economic prosperity of the First District and all of Georgia,” said Carter. “Unfortunately, America is falling behind. Since 2007, there have been more than 100 trade agreements signed around the world and we were party to none. We just can’t afford to let that continue. In order to create more opportunity and more jobs all across America, we need to open more markets to American-made products that will be exported through our ports like Savannah and Brunswick. TPA will expedite these much-needed agreements while giving the American people a voice in ensuring any deal benefits the American people.” TPA has three main components: a list of nearly 150 congressionally-prescribed negotiating objectives that sets priorities for the administration to follow; robust consultation and transparency requirements that give Congress adequate oversight of negotiations and give the public a full understanding of what an agreement would mean including a 60 day public review period for any deal; and a streamlined procedure to vote on a trade agreement if the administration meets its TPA obligations. “We need to expand trade opportunities but we can’t harm working American families in the process,” Carter said. “Right now, trade agreements are being negotiated behind closed doors with no transparency and it cannot stand. I voted for TPA today to hold President Obama accountable and ensure any trade agreement is available for everyone to review. Like many, I don’t trust the President and that is exactly why I voted for this legislation today.”
06.11.2015	The United States House of Representatives today approved more than $452 million to preserve the present force structure of the A-10 Thunderbolt fleet. The fiscal year 2016 Defense Appropriations bill also prohibits the Air Force from placing A-10s in backup status or retirement securing protection of the 23d Wing stationed at Moody Air Force Base. Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (GA-01), who represents Moody Air Force Base in Congress, has been a leader in the fight to preserve the A-10. During discussions leading to the passage of the legislation today by the House, he testified in front of the House Appropriations Committee highlighting the importance of the A-10 to our national security and requesting full funding for the fleet. “The legislation passed today provides critical funding for the A-10 fleet while providing the necessary protections to ensure there are no backdoor divestment attempts,” Carter said. “Plain and simple, the A-10 is the only aircraft of its kind that can effectively accomplish its mission of protecting our troops while remaining close to the battlefield for any additional support that may be needed by ground forces. Passage of this bill is a strong step in the protection of the Warthog and our troops and I am committed to continuing the fight. I strongly urge the Senate to put the safety of our troops first and provide the same support for the fleet as the House has done today.” The A-10 provides Close Air Support and Combat Search-And-Rescue capability unmatched by any other aircraft in the Air Force’s inventory. No other fixed-wing airframes are as proficient as the A-10 in operating in rugged environments, low visibility, and very low altitudes. The A-10s, operated by the 23rd Wing, have been providing critical close air support (CAS) for our ground troops since they first entered service in the 1970s. It is this unique ability to perform effective close air support that has garnered the A-10 with high accolades in recent theatres of conflict, including Iraq and Afghanistan. Currently, A-10s are flying Close Air Support missions against ISIS advances. Fox news has reported that the A-10 “sparked panic in the ranks of ISIS after bombing its elements and flying in spaces close to the ground.” The Warthog flew eleven percent of the attacks in Iraq between November 2014 and January 2015 and continues to support missions against the terrorist group. The fiscal year 2016 Defense Appropriations bill funds critical national security needs, military operations abroad, and health and quality-of-life programs for the men and women of the Armed Forces and their families. Carter voted in support of the legislation.
06.11.2015	The United States House of Representatives today approved more than $971 million for the Ohio-class missile submarine replacement reactor program. This is in addition to $186 million approved by the House last month. Leading to the vote today, Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (GA-01) was the leader in securing this funding. He testified in front of the House Appropriations Committee and requested that the bill include funding for a replacement to the Ohio-class submarine to prevent a gap in the retirement of the Ohio-class boats and their replacement, which will impact future missions at Naval Submarine Base Kings Bay in Camden County. “This legislation provides vital resources for future missions at Kings Bay,” Carter said. “The submarines stationed at Kings Bay play a dynamic role in our nuclear deterrence. The funding provided today will ensure Kings Bay has the opportunity to remain the elite home base of the Atlantic ballistic submarine fleet.” Kings Bay is currently home to 8 Ohio-class submarines. While these submarines fulfill a critical role in nuclear deterrence and readiness, they will soon be reaching the end of their expected lifespan and a replacement will be needed. The first Ohio-class replacement submarine was originally scheduled to be procured in fiscal year 2019, but deferments by the Navy have pushed back that timeline. This means that there may be a gap in the retirement of the Ohio-class boats and the procurement and production of its replacement class of boats. This bill seeks to prevent this gap. The funding comes as part of the fiscal year 2016 Defense Appropriations bill which funds critical national security needs, military operations abroad, and health and quality-of-life programs for the men and women of the Armed Forces and their families. Carter represents Naval Submarine Base Kings Bay in Camden County in Congress and voted in support of the legislation.
06.10.2015	Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (GA-01) released the following statement today in support of Senator Johnny Isakson (R-GA) after his announcement regarding his diagnosis of Parkinson's disease. “Johnny Isakson’s leadership is invaluable to our state and our nation. It is clear he is approaching this challenge like he has approached every other: refusing to let anything get in the way of his unyielding desire to do the most good for the people he serves.”
05.26.2015	The United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit today denied the Obama Administration’s request to lift a hold on the president’s executive actions on immigration to grant amnesty. The ruling comes in a lawsuit by 26 states, including Georgia, aimed at permanently stopping the executive orders. Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (GA-01) has helped lead the charge against the Obama Administration’s actions, voting twice to reject any funding for them and he recently joined this court battle by signing an amicus brief to support the lawsuit brought by the states. “This is a big win in our fight to stop the president’s blatant overreach on amnesty,” Carter said. “The Fifth Circuit has provided yet another warning to the president that he will not get away with unilaterally rewriting our nation’s immigration laws. Every branch of government – including President Obama himself – has made clear that this approach to backdoor amnesty is unconstitutional. I will not rest in my fight to stand for the rule of law and restore the balance of power laid out in the Constitution.” In February, United States District Judge Andrew Hanen granted a preliminary injunction on the executive orders. The appeals court today found that the states do have sufficient legal grounds to bring the lawsuit, pushing the lawsuit forward in the legal process and continuing the ban on the administration’s implementation of the unprecedented executive actions.
05.15.2015	The United States House of Representatives today approved legislation to keep the A-10 Thunderbolt flying. The Fiscal Year 2016 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) passed in the House includes $682.7 million to fully support personnel and to preserve, modify and upgrade the A-10 fleet. The NDAA also prohibits the Air Force from placing A-10s in backup status or retirement. Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (GA-01), who represents Moody Air Force Base in Congress, has been a leader in the fight to preserve the A-10. During discussions leading to the passage of the legislation today by the House, he sent a letter to every member of the House Armed Services Committee asking for support of the aircraft, detailing its unique capabilities, and urging the committee to prohibit the Air Force from taking further action to divest the aircraft. Carter also testified in front of the House Appropriations Committee highlighting the importance of the A-10 to our national security and requesting full funding for the fleet. “Today is a big win in the fight to keep the Warthog flying to protect our troops in combat,” said Carter. “The legislation passed today not only funds the fleet, but it also provides the necessary protections to ensure there are no backdoor divestment attempts. We cannot risk the safety of our troops by retiring the A-10 Thunderbolt fleet without a viable alternative to take its place. Now it is time for the Senate to act and I strongly urge them to make the protection of our troops their top priority and provide the same support for the fleet as the House has done today.” The Fiscal Year 2016 National Defense Authorization Act passed the House today by a vote of 269-151. The legislation sets defense policy for the year and offers a $612 billion defense spending blueprint. The legislation increases troop pay and benefits, reinforces missions to defeat ISIS, strengthens our cyber defenses and boosts our missile defense capabilities. Carter voted in support of the legislation.
05.15.2015	The United States House of Representatives today approved legislation to secure funding for the Ohio-class ballistic missile submarine replacement reactor program. The Fiscal Year 2016 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) passed in the House today transfers $1.39 billion from the Research, Development, Test, and Evaluation, Navy account to the National Sea Based Deterrence Fund, Department of Defense account to ensure funding is available for shipbuilding. “This legislation ensures critical funding is used to prevent interruptions of future missions at Kings Bay that would be threatened without this transfer of funds,” said Carter. “The submarines stationed at Kings Bay play an integral role in our nuclear deterrence. As they reach the end of their expected lifetime, we must ensure Kings Bay has the opportunity to remain the elite home base of the Atlantic ballistic submarine fleet.” The Fiscal Year 2016 National Defense Authorization Act passed the House today by a vote of 269-151. The legislation sets defense policy for the year and offers a $612 billion defense spending blueprint. The legislation increases troop pay and benefits, reinforces missions to defeat ISIS, strengthens our cyber defenses and boosts our missile defense capabilities. Carter represents Naval Submarine Base Kings Bay in Camden County in Congress and voted in support of the legislation.
05.14.2015	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (GA-01) released the following statement today after the United States House of Representatives approved H.R. 1191, the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act. Carter voted in support of the legislation to prevent the president from unilaterally lifting sanctions in Iran if Congress does not approve the final nuclear deal currently being negotiated. “There is no question that Congress should have oversight and scrutiny over any nuclear deal with Iran. Our president is negotiating this deal and ignoring the reality that Iran has a long-term plan to increase its nuclear capabilities while threatening Israel, one of our closest allies, and the security of the entire world. These negotiations are a ploy to trick the United States and our allies into allowing full freedom for Iran to grow their nuclear presence, implement their plans of terror and provoke a nuclear arms race in the most unstable region. “Allowing Congressional oversight is the only way the American people, through their elected representatives, will have the opportunity to voice their concerns. The president must work with Congress to ensure the Iranian regime is held accountable and the threat of their nuclear program is eliminated.”
05.13.2015	Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (GA-01) today voted for landmark pro-life legislation which would extend protections for the unborn. The Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act (H.R. 36) would ban abortions nationwide 20 weeks after conception except in the cases of incest and rape. “As a healthcare professional, father, grandfather and Congressman, I strongly believe life starts at conception. There is overwhelming scientific evidence proving that precious babies are capable of feeling pain after 20 weeks and this legislation would put a necessary end to the excruciating abortion methods used in late term pregnancies. On the two year anniversary of the conviction of Kermit Gosnell’s murders performed in his abortion clinic, I strongly urge the Senate and President Obama to act swiftly on this legislation to ensure similar tragedies do not continue to occur.” The legislation which passed the House today is supported by nearly every pro-life organization including the Georgia Life Alliance, the National Right to Life Committee, Concerned Women for America, Family Research Council, Americans United for Life, Christian Coalition, Susan B. Anthony List, National Committee for a Human Life Amendment, and March for Life. While he heralded the importance of today’s legislation, Carter vowed to continue his push to protect all life from conception. “It’s time for the United States Congress to stand up for all those who cannot stand up for themselves and pass permanent federal legislation that will protect innocent lives at any stage of gestation. The sanctity of human life should be protected from conception and I look forward to supporting legislation to do so.” Carter is a cosponsor of H.R. 426, the Sanctity of Human Life Act, which protects life from conception.
05.13.2015	The Committee on Homeland Security’s Subcommittee on Oversight and Management Efficiency today approved Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter’s (GA-01) DHS FOIA Efficiency Act of 2015. The legislation would require the Chief FOIA Officer at the Department of Homeland Security to improve and streamline the FOIA request process at the department to reduce their backlog and provide greater transparency on costs associated with the FOIA process. Carter introduced the legislation after a Government Accountability Office (GAO) report found that DHS has an outstanding number of backlogged FOIA requests due to mismanagement and duplicative efforts between components of the department. At the end of fiscal year 2013, DHS held approximately half of the reported backlogged federal FOIA requests, more than any other federal agency. “In what is supposed to be the most transparent administration in history, DHS has an abysmal record when it comes to FOIA requests,” said Carter. “It boasts the largest backlog of any federal agency and was given a D+ for its handling of them by an independent watchdog. I am pleased the subcommittee approved this important legislation today moving these desperately needed reforms to improve the process, eliminate duplication and significantly reduce the backlog while increasing transparency and accountability to the public one step closer to reality.” H.R. 1615, the DHS FOIA Efficiency Act of 2015, was introduced as part of a greater legislative initiative from the House Committee on Homeland Security to curb waste, fraud, abuse and increased transparency at the DHS. Carter’s legislation will now be considered by the full Committee on Homeland Security. Full text of the legislation as introduced can be found here.
05.01.2015	The U.S. House of Representatives today approved critical funding for the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project and continued maintenance of the Savannah Harbor. Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter spearheaded efforts to ensure funding for the project was included in the legislation. In addition to his request to the House Appropriations Committee to fund the project, Carter led the entire Georgia delegation highlighting the importance of the project, the unprecedented $5.50 return on every $1 invested, and the need for funding. “Savannah’s harbor is an economic engine not just for our area but for our state and our nation,” said Carter. “Seeing this project through is one of my top priorities in Congress because it will create jobs, opportunity, and prosperity for generations to come.” The bill provides $50.6 million total for the Savannah Harbor. $29.6 million is provided for the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project specifically and $21 million is provided for regular maintenance of the channel. It comes as part of a larger bill providing funding for national defense nuclear weapons activities, the Army Corps of Engineers, various programs under the Department of Energy (DOE), and other related agencies.
05.01.2015	The United States House of Representatives today approved more than $186 million for the Ohio-class ballistic missile submarine replacement reactor program. During budget discussions, Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (GA-01) testified in front of the House Appropriations Committee and requested that the bill include funding for a replacement to the Ohio-class submarine to prevent a gap in the retirement of the Ohio-class boats and their replacement, which will impact future missions at Naval Submarine Base Kings Bay in Camden County. “The submarines stationed at Kings Bay play a critical role in nuclear deterrence and readiness, however they will soon be reaching the end of their expected timeline and a replacement will be needed," said Carter. “I am pleased that this bill provides necessary funding so Kings Bay will have the opportunity to continue to be the elite home base of the Atlantic ballistic submarine fleet.” The funding comes as part of the Fiscal Year 2016 Energy and Water Appropriations Act which provides funding for national defense nuclear weapons activities, the Army Corps of Engineers, various programs under the Department of Energy (DOE), and other related agencies.
04.30.2015	Today, Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (GA-01) voted in support of the joint Congressional balanced budget resolution, the Congressional budget for the coming year. The budget balances within 10 years, does not raise taxes, strengthens our national defense, strengthens Medicare, and stops the federal government’s out of control spending. “As I have said before, I believe that our national debt is the single biggest threat to our national security and, unchecked, threatens to leave future generations to a life indebted to other countries,” Carter said. “This is the first joint 10-year balanced budget since 2001 and I am proud that Washington is finally taking a cue from hard working families, small businesses, and states, counties, and municipalities, and learning to balance a budget.” “Similar to the House budget I supported earlier this year, the joint budget resolution provides the foundation for a strong economy, works to keep our nation safe, and saves vital programs like Medicare. Hardworking Georgians deserve a Congress that delivers results, and this budget is the blueprint that will create a better America for our children and grandchildren.” Key provisions of the joint Congressional balanced budget resolution include: Balancing the Budget within 10 years without Raising Taxes $5 Trillion Plus in Savings Repealing Obamacare to Start Over with Patient-Centered Reforms $400 Billion in Additional Economic Growth Over the Next 10 Years, According to the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) Providing for a Strong National Defense 1.2 Million Additional Jobs Over the Next 10 years, Based on CBO Data Strengthening Medicare Providing the foundation for a strong economy Improving Efficiency, Effectiveness & Accountability of Government
04.29.2015	Just four months into his term, Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (GA-01) has earned a coveted appointment to the House Republican Whip Team. In announcing the move, House Majority Whip Steve Scalise (LA-01) praised Carter for his business experience and commitment to advancing conservative reforms. “It is an honor to appoint my friend and colleague Buddy Carter to the Whip Team,” Scalise said. “Buddy's strong commitment to public service, and experience and expertise as a businessman and leader in his community will make him a valuable asset to the team. I look forward to working with Congressman Carter to unite the Republican Conference and pass bold conservative solutions that will get our country back on the right track.” As Deputy Whip, Carter will be charged with assisting Scalise and Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry (NC-10) with managing and building support for legislation on the floor. It also provides him with a key perch from which to influence the legislative process and advocate for issues of importance to Georgia and the First District. “I am honored and excited that Whip Scalise has asked me to join the whip team,” Carter said. “I hope to unify the Republican Conference in support of conservative efforts to promote economic growth and job creation, reduce overly-burdensome federal regulations, repeal and replace Obamacare, secure our border, promote energy independence, and reform our antiquated tax code. Together we will deliver the results the American people are yearning for and leave our country better off for the next generation.” Carter is a first term Congressman from Georgia’s First District. He brings to the Whip Team experience, having served as Whip and Chief Deputy Whip in the Georgia Senate. Carter is the only pharmacist in Congress and operated community pharmacies in South Georgia for nearly thirty years. Born and raised in the First District of Georgia, Carter is a graduate of the University of Georgia and Young Harris College. He has been married to his college sweetheart, Amy, for thirtysix years. Together they have three adult sons, two daughters-in-law, and two twin granddaughters.
04.16.2015	Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (GA-01) voted today to fully repeal the death tax. Carter is a cosponsor of H.R. 1105, the Death Tax Repeal Act of 2015, that passed the United States House of Representatives today to fully repeal the federal estate and generation-skipping transfer taxes, better known as the death tax. “This legislation will finally put an end to this unfair tax that tears apart family businesses and farms,” said Carter. “Eliminating the death tax will not only provide stability to hardworking Americans who hope to share their life savings with their children and grandchildren, but it will also provide strong economic growth and job creation. The Senate and President Obama should act swiftly to make this law.” A 2012 Joint Economic Committee (JEC) report called the death tax “an overwhelming cause of the dissolution of family businesses.” JEC estimates that the death tax has cost the Unites States economy an estimated $1.1 trillion in capital accumulation. Additionally, a recent study by the Tax Foundation found that repeal of the death tax would increase the U.S. capital stock by 2.2%, boost the economy, create 139,000 jobs and eventually increase federal revenue. “While I am pleased that the House passed this legislation today with my support, this opportunity should be used to call for a greater simplification of our antiquated tax code,” said Carter. “As Georgians start to recover from the burden of tax season, we must move forward with pro-growth tax reform, like the Fair Tax, to create a fairer, simpler and flatter tax code to build a stronger economy.” Original cosponsorship of H.R. 25, the Fair Tax Act of 2015, was Carter’s first act as a Member of Congress. In addition to eliminating the death tax, the Fair Tax eliminates all personal and corporate income taxes, gift taxes, and the payroll tax.
04.15.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (GA-01) testified before the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense to request support for operations at Moody Air Force Base in Lowndes County, including the A-10 fleet operated by the 23d Wing, during fiscal year 2016 budget discussions. CLICK HERE TO DOWNLOAD A HIGH-RES COPY Carter testifies on the importance of First District military installations before House Appropriations Committee Before the subcommittee, Carter testified on the importance of the A-10 Thunderbolt to our national security and asked for full funding for the fleet in the fiscal year 2016 Defense Appropriations bill. "Plain and simple, the A-10 is the only aircraft of its kind that can effectively accomplish its mission of protecting our troops while loitering around the battlefield for any additional support that may be needed by ground forces", said Carter. "The A-10 platforms provide a cost-effective and proven mission set that is fully capable of filling a role that no other airframe can accomplish to that degree. With the F-35 untested in the close air support role, we cannot afford to retire the A-10 airframes, especially with how much life is left in the planes. That’s why I am requesting your support of full funding for the A-10 fleet in the Fiscal Year 2016 Defense Appropriations bill." Carter's testimony in support of the A-10 is in addition to a letter that was recently submitted to the House Appropriations Committee requesting support and full funding for the aircraft fleet. To view Carter's full testimony before the House Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, please click here.
04.15.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (GA-01) testified before the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense to highlight the need to support the missions at Fort Stewart and Hunter Army Air Field during fiscal year 2016 budget discussions. CLICK HERE TO DOWNLOAD A HIGH-RES COPY Carter testifies on the importance of First District military installations before House Appropriations Committee Before the Subcommittee, Carter brought attention to the Army’s planned manpower drawdowns and his serious concerns with the possible impacts on the effective troop levels and missions at Fort Stewart. “I’ve heard discussions about reducing the total number of Army Brigade Combat Teams nationwide and additional manpower cuts which could affect the 3rd Infantry Division by the reduction of one or even two BCTs,” Carter said. “Such reductions would be a severe blow to the ability of the 3rd Infantry Division, Fort Stewart and Hunter Army Air Field to provide their extraordinary capability to our national defense.” Carter requested that the Army broaden its evaluation of Fort Stewart and Hunter Army Air Field with regard to Army Brigade Combat Teams to maintain full mission integrity and capabilities. During his testimony, Carter also shared his concerns and priorities for the rest of the military installations within Georgia's First Congressional District including Kings Bay Naval Submarine Base, the Townsend Bombing Range and Moody Air Force Base. Excerpts of Carter's testimony are below. To view Carter's full testimony before the House Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, please click here. Thank you for this opportunity to share with you my concerns and priorities for the military installations within Georgia’s First Congressional District. It’s an honor to represent a district which houses four major military installations, every branch of the military, and thousands of veterans who have served our country so honorably. With this unique military footprint, the district’s defense elements are important not just to our state and region but to the nation and America’s interests around the world. The First District is the proud home of Fort Stewart and Hunter Army Airfield. As the largest Army installation east of the Mississippi River and home to the “Rock of the Marne,” the 3rd Infantry Division (ID), Fort Stewart has a long and storied past as well as a vibrant role in today’s national defense missions. Its level of significance and contributions continues to be a point of pride for the district, from spearheading the advance into Baghdad during Operation Iraqi Freedom to the deployment of soldiers to West Africa to help contain the Ebola outbreak. Today, as I speak, the 3rd ID is deployed to Afghanistan and Eastern Europe. With the Army’s planned manpower drawdowns, the maintenance of effective troop levels and mission sets at Fort Stewart has become a very concerning issue. I’ve heard discussions about reducing the total number of Army Brigade Combat Teams (BCTs) nationwide and additional manpower cuts which could affect the 3rd ID by the reduction of one or even two BCTs. Such reductions would be a severe blow to the ability of the 3rd ID, Fort Stewart and Hunter Army Airfield to provide their extraordinary capability to our national defense. Fort Stewart and Hunter Army Air Field are uniquely equipped and strategically located to deliver a devastating blow to our adversaries world-wide. It has vast training areas, modern facilities and an extraordinary network of intermodal deployment options through nearby ports and on-base and nearby airports. For those reasons and more, I am requesting that the Army broaden its evaluation of Fort Stewart and Hunter with regard to BCT reductions. That should include factors such as cost efficiencies of operations and speed of deployment, the regional training capabilities with other installations, and community support. ...Thank you for this opportunity to provide testimony to the Subcommittee today. With our rich military heritage, these issues are extremely important to me and my constituents in the First District of Georgia. I’m very proud of the men and women who serve in our military and it is my intention, as I am sure it is yours, to do everything possible to ensure they continue to be the best equipped, most highly trained, and well cared for fighting force in the world. I appreciate your attention to these requests and thank you again for the time today.
04.15.2015	Washington, D.C. - Today, Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (GA-01) testified before the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense to highlight the need to support the Kings Bay Naval Submarine Base in St. Marys during fiscal year 2016 budget discussions. CLICK HERE TO DOWNLOAD A HIGH-RES COPY Carter testifies on the importance of First District military installations before House Appropriations Committee After highlighting the indispensable role the fleet of submarines located at Kings Bay plays in our national defense, Carter requested that the House Appropriations Committee consider a replacement to the Ohio-class submarine during this year's budget discussions to prevent a gap in the retirement of the Ohio-class boats and their replacement. "While these submarines fulfill a critical role in nuclear deterrence and readiness, they will soon be reaching the end of their expected timeline and a replacement will be needed," said Carter. "The first Ohio-class replacement submarine was originally scheduled to be procured in fiscal year 2019, but necessary deferments by the Navy have pushed back that timeline. This means that there may be a gap in the retirement of the Ohio-class boats and the procurement and production of its replacement class of boats. Due to this concern, I submitted a request to the Appropriations Committee in support of the Department of Defense’s budget line of $1.391 billion for the Ohio replacement development in accordance with the President’s budget." During his testimony, Carter also shared his concerns and priorities for the rest of the military installations within Georgia's First Congressional District including Fort Stewart, Hunter Army Air Field, the Townsend Bombing Range and Moody Air Force Base. Excerpts of Carter's testimony are below. To view Carter's full testimony before the House Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, please click here. Thank you for this opportunity to share with you my concerns and priorities for the military installations within Georgia’s First Congressional District. It’s an honor to represent a district which houses four major military installations, every branch of the military, and thousands of veterans who have served our country so honorably. With this unique military footprint, the district’s defense elements are important not just to our state and region but to the nation and America’s interests around the world. ...Nearby Fort Stewart, my district proudly includes the Kings Bay Naval Submarine Base, located in St. Marys, Georgia. Kings Bay is the home port for the Atlantic ballistic missile submarine fleet. The fleet of submarines located at Kings Bay plays an indispensable role in our nation’s security as an element of the nation’s nuclear triad. It is currently home to 8 Ohio-class submarines, six of which are ballistic missile submarines and two of which have been converted to guided missile submarines. While these submarines fulfill a critical role in nuclear deterrence and readiness, they will soon be reaching the end of their expected timeline and a replacement will be needed. The last guided missile submarine is expected to be retired in 2028, leaving the Navy with a 60% reduction in in undersea strike capacity. The first Ohio-class replacement submarine was originally scheduled to be procured in fiscal year 2019, but necessary deferments by the Navy have pushed back that timeline. This means that there may be a gap in the retirement of the Ohio-class boats and the procurement and production of its replacement class of boats. Because of this, I submitted a programmatic request in support of the Department of Defense’s budget line of $1.391 billion for the Ohio replacement development in accordance with the President’s budget. The Virginia-class fast attack submarine is another major program with a critical role in the defense of our nation and our Navy. With the Ohio-class replacements on the horizon, Virginia-class submarines will continue to fulfill a larger role in the submarine fleet, especially with their life expectancy projected to reach as far as 2070. The Virginia Payload Module (VPM) is a cost-effective way to preserve our undersea strike capacity by adding expanded capabilities and armaments to the Virginia-class submarine fleet. With the rise in development and procurement of anti-access and area denial systems, undersea strikes will, through necessity, assume a more dominant role in future conflicts. It is through an expansion program, like the Virginia Payload Module, that we would be able to effectively maintain our capabilities while assuming cost savings until a guided missile replacement can enter service. The development of the Virginia Payload Module must continue to ensure that all Block 5 boats procured in fiscal year 2019 through 2023 can incorporate the capabilities of the expansion. This will help to ensure that we don’t have a loss in undersea strike capabilities between the retirement of the Ohio-class submarine and the procurement and construction of its replacement boat. It is for all these reasons discussed that I am requesting $168 million for the development of the Virginia Payload Module. ...Thank you for this opportunity to provide testimony to the Subcommittee today. With our rich military heritage, these issues are extremely important to me and my constituents in the First District of Georgia. I’m very proud of the men and women who serve in our military and it is my intention, as I am sure it is yours, to do everything possible to ensure they continue to be the best equipped, most highly trained, and well cared for fighting force in the world. I appreciate your attention to these requests and thank you again for the time today.
04.10.2015	Washington, D.C. – As the federal government considers expanding offshore energy production to the Atlantic Coast, Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (GA-01) has just returned from a fact-finding mission to the Gulf of Mexico to learn more about the industry and how it could impact the First District of Georgia. Carterat Hess Corporation’s Tubular Bells deepwater oil and gas field CLICK HERE TO DOWNLOAD A HI-RES COPY Participating in the 2015 Offshore Energy Tour with House Majority Whip Steve Scalise (LA-01) and Carter were Reps. Larry Bucshon (IN-08), Barbara Comstock (VA-10), Paul Cook (CA-08), Gene Green (TX-29), Richard Hudson (NC-08) Tim Walberg (MI-07), Mimi Walters (CA-45), and Ryan Zinke (MT-AL). “It was extremely beneficial to see first-hand the advancements in safely producing American energy offshore,” said Carter. “Offshore energy production provides an opportunity for job creation and economic incentives in Georgia while strengthening our national security by reducing our dependence on foreign sources of energy from nations often hostile to our national interests. This trip provided me with a deeper understating of the technology and skill involved in the process which will be vital as the federal government moves forward with opening the Atlantic to ensure it is done safely and in a manner that protects our beautiful coasts.” During the fact finding mission, Carter visited Hess Corporation’s Tubular Bells deepwater oil and gas field. The Tubular Bells deepwater oil and gas field was discovered in 2003 and lies in approximately 4,300 feet of water, 135 miles southeast of New Orleans primarily on Mississippi Canyon Block 724. They are forecasted to deliver an average net production of between 30,000 and 35,000 barrels of oil per day from four producing wells this year. In addition, he participated in a roundtable with energy industry leaders to discuss more ways to increase energy production. To view or download additional photos from Carter’s trip, please click here.
03.26.2015	Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (GA-01) today voted in support of H.R. 2, the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015, to strengthen Medicare and replace the broken Medicare payment system which has repeatedly threatened seniors’ access to care. The legislation would permanently replace the Medicare Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR) formula which was intended to control costs for Medicare but has done nothing to improve the program’s solvency. “The current Medicare payment system has threatened seniors’ access to quality healthcare for too long and they deserve a permanent solution, not just another band aid increasing the problem,” Carter said. “Huge cuts looming over reimbursements for seniors’ care will continue to drive doctors away from participating in Medicare, leaving seniors with the frightening uncertainty of whether their doctors will still be available to them.” “The legislation I supported today creates a permanent solution for the Medicare program that is reliable, patient-centered and rewarding of doctors who provide quality health care rather than those who focus on quantity. H.R. 2 is the right step in a long fight to strengthen Medicare for current beneficiaries and preserve it for generations to come.” The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) found that H.R. 2 will save taxpayers money compared to the current pattern of the program. CBO estimates that “enacting the legislation would cost $0.9 billion less over the 2015-2025 period than freezing payment rates for physicians’ services” and that savings will continue to rise.
03.26.2015	Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (GA-01) and Congressman Austin Scott (GA-08) called on congressional leaders to support the A-10 Thunderbolt aircraft fleet, also known as the A-10C Warthog. Carter and Scott, who both represent Moody Air Force Base in Valdosta, Georgia, signed a letter to the House Appropriations Committee led by Congresswoman Martha McSally (AZ-02) and Congresswoman Candice S. Miller (MI-10) to support the platform which the Obama Administration has sought to retire without a suitable replacement, threatening the A-10 missions of the 23d Wing at Moody Air Force Base. “The Close Air Support provided by the A-10 Warthog is unparalleled,” said Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter. “It is irresponsible and dangerous to retire the A-10 as the aircraft plays a vital role in our fight against the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria (ISIS). The fleet gives our troops the ability to look terrorists in the eyes as the plane displays its remarkable weapons system and operational effectiveness. In addition to increased threats to our homeland, divesting the A-10 would put our ground troops in additional unnecessary danger. Congress must fight to save the Warthog for the security of our troops and the entire nation.” “Turmoil abroad indicates that our nation’s military must remain armed with the highest quality weapons systems in order to protect and defend our country,” said Congressman Austin Scott. “The A-10C Warthog, flown out of Moody Air Force Base, continues to perform in close-air situations as we fight terrorism in the Middle East. I urge my colleagues to support the A-10s as we move forward in budget discussions.” The A-10 provides Close Air Support and Combat Search-And-Rescue capability unmatched by any other aircraft in the Air Force’s inventory. No other fixed-wing airframes are as proficient as the A-10 in operating in rugged environments, low visibility, and very low altitudes. Fox news recently reported that the A-10 “sparked panic in the ranks of ISIS after bombing its elements and flying in spaces close to the ground.” The Warthog flew eleven percent of the attacks in Iraq between November 2014 and January 2015 and continues to support missions against the terrorist group. Please click here to find the full text of the letter to the House Appropriations Committee.
03.25.2015	Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (GA-01) today voted in support of A Balanced Budget for a Stronger America, the House Republican budget for the coming year. The proposal would balance the budget in less than 10 years without raising taxes in contrast to the budget proposal put forward by the Obama Administration which never balances despite $2.1 trillion in new taxes. “Our national debt is the single biggest threat to our national security and, unchecked, threatens to leave future generations to a life indebted to China,” Carter said. “It is time for Washington to balance its budget just like working families, small businesses, and states, counties, and municipalities do every day. Our budget focuses on accountability, efficiency, and effectiveness across the federal government and on empowering states to implement their own solutions free of Washington’s overregulation.” “A Balanced Budget for a Stronger America repeals Obamacare in full, provides the foundation for a strong economy by simplifying our antiquated tax code, works to keep our nation safe while providing for the brave men and women who protect us, and saves vital programs like Medicare. Hardworking taxpayers deserve a budget that enacts true reforms and this budget is the right path to create a better America for our children and grandchildren.” Key provisions of A Balanced Budget for a Stronger America include: balancing the budget in less than 10 years without raising taxes; cutting $5.5 trillion in spending; repealing Obamacare in full – including all its taxes, regulations, and mandates; providing for a strong national defense through robust funding of troop training, equipment and compensation; strengthening Medicare by making structural improvements to save the program; and promoting innovation and flexibility for Medicaid, nutrition assistance, education and other programs by empowering states. In addition to A Balanced Budget for a Stronger America, Carter voted in support of the budget proposal put forward by the Republican Study Committee which would balance the budget in six years, reduce discretionary spending, reform Medicare, repeal Obamacare, and enact tax reform.
03.18.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (GA-01) introduced two pieces of legislation today to protect workers’ rights by curbing intimidation practices of labor unions and their leaders. The Freedom from Union Stalking Act and the Freedom from Union Identity Theft Act would prohibit preemption of state stalking and identity theft laws in the cases of union officials. “Hardworking Americans should be able to go to work every day without the fear of intimidation or coercion from big union bosses,” said Carter. “Under current law, there is an unacceptable ‘Union Boss Loophole’ protecting these scare tactics and preventing the successful prosecution of labor officials in identity theft and cyber security crimes. These bills simply ensure that anti-stalking and anti-identity theft laws are not preempted by the National Labor Relations Act so law enforcement and the court system have the ability protect innocent working families from these appalling crimes. Union bosses are not above the law and their bullying must be explicitly prohibited.” Union officials across the country are getting away with crimes like posting Social Security numbers and other private information, exposing workers to identify theft, credit fraud and other threats, to strong-arm them into joining or supporting union positions. In North Carolina, it was reported that workers who exercised their freedom under North Carolina’s Right to Work law and resigned from membership in a labor union had their personal information disseminated via email, including their Social Security numbers. In Connecticut, it was reported that a woman had her identity stolen after expressing her objections to a union. In both cases, because of the ‘Union Boss Loophole,’ the perpetrators were not prosecuted in a court of law. Please click here to view the full text of the Freedom from Union Stalking Act. Please click here to view the full text of the Freedom from Union Identity Theft Act. Rep. Carter is a member of the House Education and the Workforce Committee which oversees federal labor policies. He is a member of the Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Subcommittee which has jurisdiction over all federal laws dealing with the relationships between employers and employees.
03.17.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (GA-01) released the following statement in response to the House Budget Committee’s introduction of its Fiscal Year 2016 budget proposal, A Balanced Budget for a Stronger America, today. “The House Republican Budget released by the House Budget Committee today provides real solutions and is a plan to grow our economy, protect Georgia’s families and create a better America for our children and grandchildren. A Balanced Budget for a Stronger America balances the budget in less than ten years, calls for a fairer and simpler tax code, eliminates wasteful programs, provides for a strong national defense and supports the brave men and women who risk their lives for it, strengthens vital programs like Medicare and repeals Obamacare in full. “As a father, husband and small business owner for more than thirty years, I know firsthand the necessity of balancing a budget just like American families do across the country every day. Hardworking taxpayers deserve a budget that enacts true reforms and this budget is the right path to put an end to Washington’s out of control fiscal situation.” Click here to view A Balanced Budget for a Stronger America.
03.10.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (GA-01) released the following statement regarding President Obama’s visit to the Georgia Institute of Technology campus in Atlanta today. “I find it ironic that President Obama discussed college affordability and access to quality higher education in Atlanta when, under his watch, education costs have skyrocketed leaving last year’s graduating class the most indebted ever. Today, nearly two-thirds of students graduating from American colleges and universities have some level of debt and they face double the amount graduates were faced with twenty years ago. The students the President addressed today are next in line to take the title of ‘most indebted’ when entering Obama’s unstable economy and job market. “As the Obama Administration continues to push its bad policies into education and our economy, the potential for these students to find employment, pay off their debts and even get a mortgage on a home while faced with Washington’s crushing burden of debt will continue to decline. Students in Georgia, and across the country, deserve more.” Carter is a member of the House Education and the Workforce Committee where he works to reduce education costs and return education to local control.
03.03.2015	Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (GA-01) released the following statement today after voting against the Senate Amendment to H.R. 240 to fund the Department of Homeland Security with no restrictions on President Obama’s executive actions on amnesty. “I voted against this legislation today because this vote was about more than funding for the Department of Homeland Security. The vote today was about securing the separation of powers and protecting the Constitution. If we do not fight the President’s executive orders, when will this end? We must place boundaries on the President’s authority. “Some are calling this a “clean” funding bill. There is nothing clean about letting the President trample the Constitution and letting the United States Congress be held hostage to a minority party intent on ignoring the will of the American people. “House Republicans passed a bill to fund the Department of Homeland Security weeks ago and last week we asked the Senate to hold a conference and discuss the issue and they refused. Well, I refuse to throw my conservative principles and the Constitution out the door.”
03.03.2015	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (GA-01) released the following video after Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel's third address to Congress. The video may also be found here. The full text of the speech is below: This morning, I had the honor to receive Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s third address to Congress. As the only democracy in the Middle East, Israel is one of our closest and most important allies. Prime Minister Netanyahu is a great friend of our nation who is committed to defending our values and interests in the region. It is important that the Prime Minister joined us today because it is crucial for Congress, and all Americans, to hear of the grave dangers that haunt Israel because these threats are also perilous to our own national security. The Prime Minister’s speech was about unification against terrorism, highlighting the reality that we are all in the same head-to-head fight of the free world vs. those who are trying to destroy us. His visit comes at a critical time when the Obama administration is actively working to ease nuclear restrictions on Iran and on the heels of veto threats from the White House on preventative legislation from Congress. Just last week, President Obama threatened a veto on a bill requiring Congressional approval of any nuclear deal with Iran. Congress has the constitutional role to check the President’s actions with regards to foreign policy and we must exercise that role when his actions threaten the security of our nation and the world. I appreciate the Prime Minister’s call to stand up to Iran’s nuclear program and I stand with him, not only for the security of the Middle East, but for the defense of Georgians and all Americans, as well. The threats we face from Iran and radical Islamic terrorists are real and they cannot be appeased away. We must not forget that Iran is a brutal regime with every intention of building a dangerous nuclear weapons arsenal so they can wipe Israel off the map and further disrupt an already unstable region. We cannot let that happen. The visit from the Prime Minister today is an important step in that process.
02.27.2015	Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (GA-01) released the following statement today after supporting H. J. Res. 35, the House passed bill to fund the Department of Homeland Security at current levels through March 19, 2015. “It should have never come to this. The House passed legislation more than forty days ago to responsibly fund the Department of Homeland Security and stop the President’s unconstitutional and dangerous executive orders on immigration. Instead of swiftly and responsibly acting to ensure the Department of Homeland Security was funded by today’s deadline, Senate Democrats blocked attempt after attempt to fund the Department opting instead for their irresponsible game of party politics. I voted in support of this bill today to protect the hardworking men and women who secure our homeland while Congress works to find an agreement. “I remain steadfast that the President has violated the Constitution and I am looking to the Senate to work with us to respect the rule of law by holding him accountable. All three branches of the Federal government have echoed my conviction. A federal court, the United States House of Representatives and the President himself have all said that the executive amnesty orders are unacceptable. It’s time for my colleagues in the Senate to stand with us.”
02.24.2015	Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (GA-01) released the following statement after President Obama’s decision to veto legislation to approve the Keystone XL Pipeline. S.1, the Keystone XL Pipeline Approval Act, passed both chambers of Congress with bipartisan support. “It is an outrage that President Obama has decided to let his political pettiness stand in the way of thousands of jobs and lower energy prices for the American people. “The President even had the audacity to say that the legislation ‘cuts short thorough consideration of issues that could bear on our national interest - including our security, safety, and environment.’ The project has been under consideration for more than six years! There is no question that it is vital to our national security and it’s time for the President to admit it. “This isn’t the end of this fight and we won’t stop here. This project has strong bipartisan support and the President must join us for the safety and prosperity of the American people and our nation.”
02.23.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Farmers impacted by last year’s severe drought in some South Georgia Counties are now eligible for assistance from the United States Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) Farm Service Agency (FSA). Atkinson, Coffee and Ware Counties were designated by USDA Secretary Tom Vilsack as primary natural disaster areas due to production losses caused by dry weather and drought last year. Additionally, Bacon, Ben Hill, Berrien, Brantley, Charlton, Clinch, Irwin, Jeff Davis, Lanier, Pierce and Telfair Counties have been named as contiguous disaster counties. “This declaration makes available resources to those hit hardest by the drought and dry weather we’ve been experiencing,” Carter said. “I urge those who have experienced production losses to contact their FSA office for more information about assistance.” The declaration provides 8 months for farmers in affected areas to apply for assistance, including FSA emergency loans, provided eligibility requirements are met. Local FSA offices can provide affected farmers with further information. The full text of the notice can be found here.
02.17.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (GA-01) released the following statement after United States District Judge Andrew Hanen granted a preliminary injunction to block President Obama's executive overreach on immigration. The decision allows a lawsuit from twenty-six states, including Georgia, aimed at permanently stopping the executive orders to move through the courts. “This is a welcome announcement as the President himself said he did not have the authority to move forward with his executive orders. This is yet another warning to the President that he will not get away with his blatant overreach on amnesty and I look forward to watching this case as it progresses. “House Republicans have already acted to stand up to the President and restore the balance of powers. It's time for Senate Democrats to allow our bill to move forward to fund the Department of Homeland Security and block President Obama’s unconstitutional executive action on immigration once and for all."
02.12.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (GA-01) announced today that the 63d Expeditionary Signal Battalion will be restationed at Fort Stewart. The Army’s planned force structure will bring 492 soldiers and their families to the post. “We work every day to attract new missions to our installations and this is great news for our area,” said Carter. “We know Fort Stewart is the premiere Army installation in the country and I am proud of the great work the men and women on post are doing to demonstrate that. This move makes clear their efforts have not gone unnoticed by the Army. I will continue to work with the communities that surround the post to attract new missions and keep Fort Stewart growing.” The 63d Expeditionary Signal Battalion’s mission focuses on rapidly deploying worldwide to engineer, install, operate, maintain and defend in support of Full Spectrum Operations. The 63d Expeditionary Signal Battalion is the U.S. Army’s contribution to the Global Information Grid, which globally interconnects with end-to-end information capabilities for collecting, processing, storing, disseminating and managing information on demand to warfighters, policy makers, and support personnel.
02.11.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (GA-01) released the following statement today after the United States House of Representatives passed S.1, the Keystone XL Pipeline Approval Act, with Carter’s support. The legislation would remove bureaucratic hurdles that stand in the way of construction on the Keystone XL Pipeline. “I am proud to vote again today to approve this important project that will create over 40,000 jobs without a dime of taxpayer funding to help pull eager American workers out of the unemployment line. In addition to job creation and reducing energy costs, this project is vital to our national security. The construction of this pipeline will reduce our dependence on oil from often hostile foreign sources leading to reduced funding for both sides of the War on Terror. That is of special importance to me as the Representative for four major military installations that have borne the brunt of this fight, especially as the President requests Authorization for Use of Military Force against ISIL. “Six years since the application was submitted, Americans are ready to see this project move forward. As we send this bill to the President’s desk, it’s time for him to make the choice to stand with us and the American people or continue to stand in the way. I strongly urge him to make the right choice for job creation, energy independence and America’s safety. “
02.03.2015	Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (GA-01) voted in favor of H.R. 596 today to fully repeal Obamacare. The legislation was passed by the House this afternoon. “Today, I voted to repeal the health care law that is destroying the healthcare system that I proudly worked in for thirty years,” Carter said. “As a small business owner and healthcare professional, I have seen firsthand that many Georgians can no longer afford the astronomical costs of healthcare and they are forced to skip visits to the doctor, put off medical procedures and avoid filling prescriptions. No one should be burdened with the choice of whether they can or cannot receive medical care because of a misguided law that continues to kill jobs and our economy. Obamacare is driving the free market out of healthcare and preventing patients from having a say in their health – I refuse to let that happen.” In addition to fully repealing Obamacare, the legislation would require Congress to create replacement legislation within 180 days of enactment. “While I am pleased to support a full repeal, we can’t stop there,” Carter said. “American families deserve better than Obamacare and this legislation will allow Congress to create solutions to repair our broken healthcare system and empower patients with more choices, lower costs and better services.” Carter operated a community pharmacy for 26 years. He previously served in the Georgia General Assembly and as Mayor of Pooler, Georgia where he used his business experience to advocate for affordable healthcare.
02.02.2015	Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (GA-01) released the following statement today on the release of the President’s Fiscal Year 2016 Budget Request. “Again, I find myself disappointed, but not surprised by the President today. The Obama Administration has proven again that they have no interest in helping hardworking taxpayers and families or balancing the budget. Even while proposing an unsettling amount of new tax increases, the President’s budget never balances – ever. Most alarming, the budget increases total spending by 65 percent in just a decade. The American people have sent a clear message that is it time to enact true spending reforms to put an end to Washington’s out of control fiscal situation. This budget clearly and drastically misses that message and I am ready to work with my colleagues to put forward solutions that will grow our economy, protect Georgia’s families and create a better America for our children and grandchildren.”
02.02.2015	U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson, R-Ga., and David Perdue, R-Ga., and U.S. Representative Buddy Carter, R-Ga.-01, today applauded the inclusion of new construction funding for the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project (SHEP) in the president’s Fiscal Year 2016 budget. The administration’s budget request includes $29.7 million for the Savannah harbor -- $21.05 million for the expansion project and an additional $8.66 million to dispose of the dredging waste in Georgia and South Carolina -- in Fiscal Year 2016. In addition, the budget lists the project for the first time as an ongoing construction project in order to keep this vital economic infrastructure project on track for future federal funding. “After the shock and disappointment we felt last year when SHEP was omitted from the president’s budget, the inclusion of funding today for our state’s number one economic development project in the president’s budget is welcome but long overdue,” said Senator Isakson. “In addition to providing funding in the Fiscal Year 2016 budget, I’m pleased the Army Corps of Engineers has indicated that it is also working to secure an additional $21 million dedicated to the Savannah project in the Corps’ budget for this year’s FY15 budget.” “This victory for SHEP and our state is the result of many years of work and partnership between many people, including Governor Deal, former Senator Saxby Chambliss and former Congressman Jack Kingston,” Isakson continued. “The expansion and deepening of the Port of Savannah has been a top priority of mine since coming to the Senate in 2005 and I am so pleased to see this critical project get underway.” “I am very disappointed it has taken nearly 17 years to get this done. After all, we’re only talking about deepening the harbor five feet,” said Senator Perdue. “I applaud Georgia’s Governors who have consistently committed the state’s portion of funds for this project. This is a necessary infrastructure investment in order for the Savannah Port to remain competitive. At a time when we are spending more money than we are taking in, every federal government expenditure needs to be scrutinized. That said, expanding the Savannah Harbor should be a priority because it is an infrastructure investment that creates jobs and grows the economy.” “I am thrilled to see that the President has finally decided to stop playing games and provide what is needed to allow this vital project to move forward after Georgia’s tireless fight for almost two decades,” Representative Carter said. “I hope the Obama Administration will continue to honor its commitment to SHEP and match the dedication of the state. While I know we still have a lot of work to do, the start of construction last week and the news today are strong steps to seeing this important project become a reality.” SHEP has broad bipartisan support from Georgia’s local, state and federal leaders. The president previously included SHEP in his 2012 “We Can’t Wait” initiative, in which he specifically pledged to expedite SHEP and four other port projects. The final Project Partnership Agreement between the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, the Georgia Department of Transportation and the Georgia Ports Authority to allow construction to begin on the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project was signed on October 8, 2014. More information on the Savannah Harbor Expansion project is available here. Background: The Savannah Harbor Expansion Project was authorized in the Water Resources and Development Act of 1999 to deepen the Savannah River from its current 42-foot depth to as much as 48 feet. The project is being undertaken in anticipation of an expansion of the Panama Canal that will increase the maximum draft of vessels travelling to and from the East Coast from 39.5 feet to as much as 50 feet. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers estimates that the harbor deepening project will bring $174 million in annual net benefits to the United States. For the Post-Panamax II vessels, the extra five feet of depth will allow for an additional 3,600 cargo containers in each transit, an increase of 78 percent. The deepening project will cost approximately $706 million, including construction and environmental mitigation costs. The federal government has a role in funding this project because the U.S. Constitution gives authority over navigable waters.
02.02.2015	Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (GA-01) released the following statement after President Obama’s decision to veto legislation to approve the Keystone XL Pipeline. S.1, the Keystone XL Pipeline Approval Act, passed both chambers of Congress with bipartisan support. “It is an outrage that President Obama has decided to let his political pettiness stand in the way of thousands of jobs and lower energy prices for the American people. “The President even had the audacity to say that the legislation ‘cuts short thorough consideration of issues that could bear on our national interest - including our security, safety, and environment.’ The project has been under consideration for more than six years! There is no question that it is vital to our national security and it’s time for the President to admit it. “This isn’t the end of this fight and we won’t stop here. This project has strong bipartisan support and the President must join us for the safety and prosperity of the American people and our nation.”
01.29.2015	Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (GA-01) applauded the start of construction on the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project today. The United States Army Corps of Engineers began the long-awaited first actions on construction this afternoon. “Today is a momentous day for the state of Georgia,” Carter said. “I am thrilled to see this project finally moving forward after nearly two decades of bureaucratic hurdles that stood in the way of construction. It is past time to begin this vital project that will create thousands of jobs and increase our nation’s competitiveness while boasting an unprecedented $5.50 return on every $1 invested.” The United States Army Corps of Engineers estimates that the harbor deepening project will bring $174 million in annual net benefits to the United States. “I celebrate the tireless fight and dedication of my predecessor, former Congressman Jack Kingston, as well as other leaders who got us to this point,” Carter said. “Now it’s my turn and I know that we still have a long road ahead of us. I am jumping into the fight and I will be there every step of the way until this project is completed.” The Savannah Harbor Expansion Project was originally authorized in the Water Resources and Development Act of 1999. The project will deepen the Savannah River from its current 42 feet to 47 feet to allow larger container vessels into the harbor. Congress reauthorized the construction of SHEP in the Water Resources Reform and Development Act of 2014 and in October, officials from the Georgia Ports Authority and the United States Army Corps of Engineers signed a project partnership agreement to officially launch construction of the project.
01.22.2015	Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter released the following statement today after the United States House of Representatives passed H.R. 7, the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion and Abortion Insurance Full Disclosure Act, with Carter’s support. The legislation would permanently ban all federal funding for abortions. “As a healthcare professional, father, grandfather and Congressman, I strongly believe life starts at conception and support the sanctity of human life. Under no circumstances should American taxpayers be responsible for footing the bill for ending a precious life before it begins. However, thanks to Obamacare, the paychecks of families who share my conviction could end up paying for abortion services, possibly without their knowledge. This legislation ensures that cannot happen. “While I am pleased with the actions in the House today, I must highlight the overwhelming fact that more than 56 million babies have been denied the right to life since the tragic and injudicious Supreme Court decision in Roe v. Wade more than forty years ago. It’s time for the United States Congress to stand up for those who cannot stand up for themselves and pass permanent federal legislation that will protect the most innocent of lives. I look forward to seeing and supporting this legislation on the House floor.” Carter is a pharmacist by trade and operated a chain of community pharmacies in Southeast Georgia for nearly 30 years. In addition, he served in the Georgia General Assembly and as Mayor of Pooler, Georgia where he established himself as a leading advocate for pro-life policies to protect the unborn. He plans to continue this work in the United States House of Representatives and is a cosponsor of H.R. 426, the Sanctity of Human Life Act, which protects life from conception.
01.20.2015	Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (GA-01) released the following statement in response to the President’s State of the Union Address tonight. “While I watched my first State of the Union Address on the House floor tonight as a United States Representative I was disappointed, but not surprised, to hear the same false promises and reckless policies from the President in his sixth address. I hoped for a call to unity and a desire to work with the new Congress for a better America. Instead, I heard a vision for our nation that promotes class warfare and burdens Americans with increased regulation and more bureaucracy. Of even greater concern is my fear that the President will act on his agenda with or without Congress while blatantly ignoring the United States Constitution. I will do everything in my power to ensure he cannot act alone. “If we want to truly put an end to our nation’s out of control fiscal situation we must enact true spending and tax reforms and advance solutions that increase opportunities for all Americans — not implement irresponsible policies that allow the government to choose winners and losers like we heard tonight. It’s time to empower the middle class by creating a fairer, simpler tax code. It’s time to increase our energy security and approve the Keystone XL Pipeline. It’s time for Washington to get out of education and provide the states the ability to promote an equal opportunity to a great education for all. It’s time to repeal Obamacare and replace it with a system that provides more choices, lower costs and better services. Most importantly, it’s time to cut up the credit cards and make sure the President realizes we have a spending problem, not a revenue problem. The President’s agenda tonight focused on failed policies of the past and I strongly encourage him to join Congress in our fight to empower America for the future.”
01.16.2015	In his first act as a United States Representative, Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter lent his support as an original co-sponsor of a bill that would replace the current tax code with a national consumption tax known as the Fair Tax. “As a small business owner for nearly 30 years, I’ve experienced firsthand the devastating impact of our outdated tax code,” Carter said. “That’s why my first act in Congress was to add my support to the kind of pro-growth tax reform we so desperately need.” First introduced into the U.S. Congress in 1999 by former Georgia Congressman John Linder, the Fair Tax is the leading tax reform movement in the country. In addition to eliminating all personal and corporate income taxes, the Death Tax, gift taxes, and the payroll tax, the fair tax would also eliminate the need for the powerful and politically biased Internal Revenue Service. “The Fair Tax rewards hard work and savings while also making the IRS obsolete,” Carter said. “It is reckless to allow a politically motivated government organization the ability to interfere with the paychecks of hardworking Georgians. I firmly believe that we need a simpler, flatter and fairer tax code to build a stronger economy and moving to the system presented by the Fair Tax will achieve this.” Carter is a pharmacist by trade and operated a chain of community pharmacies in Southeast Georgia for nearly 30 years. In addition, he served in the Georgia General Assembly and as Mayor of Pooler, Georgia where he established himself as a leading advocate for pro-growth, pro-jobs policies to support private sector growth. He plans to continue this work in the United States House of Representatives.
01.14.2015	Today, Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (GA-01) voted to block President Obama’s controversial executive action on immigration while funding critical border and homeland security programs. “President Obama’s executive actions are not only dangerous, they’re unconstitutional,” Carter said. “The House acted today to stand up to the President, uphold the rule of law and restore the balance of powers. It is unacceptable that the President continues to directly ignore the will of the people, the law and most importantly, the United States Constitution.” The legislation provides funding for the Department of Homeland Security through September 30, 2015. The bill prioritizes national security while reducing overhead costs and cutting funds for lower-priority programs. The bill also includes several critical amendments to prevent executive action on amnesty and to require the Department of Homeland Security to enforce laws already on the books. Carter supported the amendments. “The House showed the President that we are not afraid to use the power of the purse to stop his blatant overreach on amnesty,” Carter said. “We will continue to fight to secure our border and reward those who come to our nation the right way, not those who have broken our laws.” Carter is also a cosponsor of H.R. 191, the Repeal Executive Amnesty Act, and H.R. 206, the Immigration Accountability Act in the new Congress. Both bills work to prevent actions on immigration through executive order.
01.09.2015	Congressman Buddy Carter (GA-01) released the following statement today after the United States House of Representatives passed H.R. 3, the Keystone XL Pipeline Act, with Carter’s support. The legislation would clear several bureaucratic hurdles for the pipeline which has been under review for over six years. “We can’t afford to delay this project any longer. It’s been more than 2,300 days since the application was first filed with the U.S. State Department, only to be stonewalled by President Obama. The pipeline will create tens of thousands of American jobs without a dime from taxpayers. It will offset the oil we import from hostile countries in the Middle East and replace it with oil from our largest trading partner. “This bill cuts the bureaucratic red tape and promotes America’s energy sources to create jobs and support energy security. While I am pleased the House passed this legislation, I strongly urge the President to reconsider his threat to veto Keystone related legislation. The American people, both Republican and Democrat, overwhelmingly support the project and it’s time for the President to step out of the way and let construction begin.”
01.08.2015	Congressman Buddy Carter (GA-01) released the following statement today after the United States House of Representatives passed H.R. 30, the Save American Workers Act, with his support. The legislation would repeal the 30-hour definition of full-time employment in the Affordable Care Act and restore the traditional 40-hour definition. “Obamacare’s employer mandate redefines full-time employees to anyone who works 30 hours or more instead of using the standard 40-hour work week. By redefining the traditional work week, this mandate is killing jobs, cutting hours and lowering wages for workers in South Georgia and across the nation. As a small business owner and healthcare professional, I have seen firsthand the devastating impact the employer mandate can have on hardworking families. By passing this bill, we are protecting the paychecks of those who need them the most. “As I have said from the beginning, I will work tirelessly to fight Obamacare and repair our broken health care system. By making this one of the first votes of the new Congress, it is clear that House Republicans are unified behind this message. I was proud to support this important legislation and I am pleased that it passed the House today. I look forward to continued efforts to end the Obamacare train wreck.” Carter operated a community pharmacy for 26 years. He previously served in the Georgia General Assembly and as Mayor of Pooler, Georgia where he used his business experience to advocate for affordable healthcare.
01.07.2015	Earl L. “Buddy” Carter was sworn in to the 114th United States Congress as the United States Representative for Georgia’s First Congressional District. “I am honored and excited to represent the people of the First District of Georgia,” said Carter. “We have a great opportunity, and even more a responsibility, to show real leadership that makes government more accountable, efficient, and transparent for the American people.” During the ceremony, Representative Carter joined other members of the 114th Congress to take the oath of office on the House floor. Later, Congressman Carter and his family joined Speaker John A. Boehner in the Capitol for a ceremonial swearing in. Carter also hosted guests from across Georgia at his new offices in Savannah, Brunswick and the Cannon House Office Building in Washington, D.C. to celebrate the occasion. Carter noted throughout the day that he is ready to address the serious challenges facing our nation. “We must work diligently to reduce out of control spending, foster job creation, repair our broken healthcare system and support our military,” Carter said. “Now it's time to roll up our sleeves and get to work.” Earl L. “Buddy” Carter Earl L. “Buddy” Carter was elected U.S. Congressman for the 114th Congress representing the First District of Georgia. As a pharmacist for more than 30 years, Buddy has earned the trust of thousands of south Georgians with their most valuable assets: their health, lives and families. He previously served in the Georgia General Assembly and as Mayor of Pooler, Georgia where he has used his business experience to advance pro-jobs policies and make government more efficient and responsive to the people. A native of Port Wentworth, Georgia, he has been married for 36 years and has three adult sons, two daughters-in-law, and twin granddaughters.
