02.26.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) and Congressman Austin Scott (GA-08) released the following statement on the United States House of Representatives’ passage of bipartisan legislation to expand the current Ocmulgee National Monument from 702 acres to 2,800 acres. The measure also will change the name from “Ocmulgee National Monument” to “Ocmulgee Mounds National Historical Park” to increase name recognition, and authorize a resources study to include recreational activities such as hunting, fishing, and camping. The Ocmulgee legislation had been approved by the U.S. House of Representatives in both the 114th Congress (2015-2016) and the 115th Congress (2017-2018) but had not been considered by the full United States Senate. The Ocmulgee legislation ultimately was included in S.47, the Natural Resources Management Act - a public lands package that was recently approved by the full U.S. Senate on February 12, 2019 by 92 to 8 vote. The House approved S.47 by a vote of 363 to 62 and it now goes the President’s desk for his signature. “The Ocmulgee Mounds is a unique cultural and archaeological treasure for Georgia and the entire nation,” said Bishop. “There are few if any historic sites in the United States that have evidence of continuous human habitation from when the first nomadic people came to North America to hunt Ice Age mammals. It is one of the many qualities that makes the Ocmulgee National Monument so important. Expanding it will increase visitation, facilitate more learning opportunities and increase protection to this significant historical landmark.” “I am very pleased that the House and Senate have now both passed legislation to expand and designate the Ocmulgee National Monument as a national historical park, further protecting the ancient lands and creating more opportunities for Georgians and tourists from across the country to learn more about our state’s rich history,” said Rep. Austin Scott. “This has been a truly bipartisan, bicameral effort, and I thank the hard work of Rep. Sanford Bishop as well as Sen. Johnny Isakson, Sen. David Perdue, and the countless constituents and local and state officials who worked for years to get this done.” Due to its history and archaeological importance, expanding Ocmulgee National Monument to Ocmulgee Mounds National Historical Park will be a lasting memorial to how individuals relate to the land and other natural resources. This expansion and improvement will be a fitting tribute to the Native Americans who first came to this historic site during the Paleo-Indian period. The park also will generate tourist revenue for Macon, Georgia and the surrounding areas while educating visitors on the little known fact that different cultures have occupied this land for thousands of years. The mounds and earth-lodges that the Mississippians built to serve as formal council chambers when they arrived in Macon around 900 A.D. remain intact for all to see and appreciate. Ocmulgee National Monument was originally authorized by Congress in 1934 to protect a fraction of the lands commonly known as the 'Old Ocmulgee Fields,' upon which certain Indian mounds of great historical importance are located. The legislation envisioned a large park of approximately 2,000 acres but local citizens could finance the acquisition of only 678 acres by the time it opened in 1936. Today, the Ocmulgee National Monument contains 702 acres. The role of the Ocmulgee National Monument is to "present a story of many stages of prehistoric cultural development, emphasizing the influences of agriculture, the Mound Builder period, and the relationship of these various cultures to each other and to life today." The Ocmulgee Mounds National Historical Park Boundary Revision Act enjoys support from the Inter-Tribal Council of the Five Civilized Tribes (Cherokee, Chickasaw, Choctaw, Muscogee [Creek], and Seminole Nations), which represent over 500,000 Native Americans throughout the United States. The measure is also supported by Macon Mayor Robert Reichert, the Macon Chamber of Commerce, the Macon-Bibb Visitors Bureau, the Macon-Bibb Commission, the Macon-Bibb Economic Development Commission, the National Parks Conservation Association, the Southeast Tourism Society, and the Ocmulgee National Park & Preserve Initiative.
02.26.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Vice Chairman of the U.S. House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies issued the following statement after the House of Representatives passed H. J. Res. 46, a resolution opposing the national emergency declared by the President on a vote 245 to 182. The resolution will now be sent to the Senate where it is expected to receive expedited consideration. “The President declared an emergency over a crisis that does not exist. Border crossings are down to one-fifth of what they were in 2000, and apprehensions are at their lowest level in more than four decades. “Instead of protecting our national security, the President’s declaration makes America less safe by stealing billions from high-priority military construction projects that ensure our troops have the essential training, readiness and quality of life necessary to keep the American people safe, which directly undermines America’s national security. “The declaration clearly violates the Congress’s exclusive power of the purse under Article I of the U.S. Constitution, and, if unchecked, would fundamentally alter the balance of powers established by the Founding Fathers in that document --‘the Supreme Law of the land.’ “The resolution rejecting the emergency declaration transcends partisan politics and partisanship, and is really about patriotism. A bipartisan group of nearly 60 national security officials including former secretaries of state, defense secretaries, CIA directors, and ambassadors to the UN issued a statement declaring that ‘there is no factual basis’ justifying the President’s emergency declaration. “In this vote, the House voted to honor and protect the U.S. Constitution,” said Bishop.
02.21.2019	ALBANY, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) invited high school students from Georgia’s 2nd Congressional District to participate in the 37th Annual Congressional Art Competition. "I am excited to announce that my office is now accepting entries for this year’s Congressional Art Competition,” said Congressman Bishop. “This competition is a tremendous opportunity to showcase the considerable artistic talent of Georgia’s 2nd Congressional District’s high school students, and I am eager to see this year’s entries!" All participants will be invited to attend a reception at the Albany Museum of Art, located at 311 Meadowlark Dr., Albany, GA 31707, on Thursday, April 18, 2019 from 5:00 pm – 7:00 pm, where all submissions will be on display and a winner will be announced. Additionally, all submitted artwork will be on display at the museum during the week of April 15 - 19 for public viewing. The winner of this year’s competition will have his or her artwork displayed for one year in the Cannon Tunnel, a busy underground walkway to the U.S. Capitol from the House office buildings and will have the unique opportunity to join Congressman Bishop at a national awards reception in Washington, D.C. All artwork must be submitted to Congressman Sanford D. Bishop’s Office at 323 Pine Avenue, Suite 400 in Albany, Georgia no later than April 10, 2019. The official competition rules can be found here. For more information, please contact Toni Pickel in the Albany District Office by email at toni.pickel@mail.house.gov or by phone at 229-439-8067.
02.19.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Vice Chairman of the U.S. House Appropriations Subcommittee on the Military, Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies issued the following statement after President Trump issued a declaration of national emergency and plans to divert critical military construction funding to build a wall on the U.S.-Mexico border. “I am opposed to the President declaring a national emergency at our southern border, and I will work with my fellow Appropriations Committee colleagues to challenge this reckless decision. If there were a true emergency at our southern border, the President would have declared this along time ago. This declaration could fleece our much-needed military construction projects in Georgia like those at Fort Gordon, Fort Benning, as well as projects at the Marine Corps Logistics Base Albany. It will also pull funds away from much needed natural disaster zones. “This careless act will weaken our military, lessen our readiness and limit the capabilities of our military men and women. It also sets an irresponsible precedent, and erodes democratic norms - all in the name of a wasteful border wall. “This is not a partisan issue. The ranking Republican of the House Armed Services Committee, Mac Thornberry (R-TX), stated just the other day that he encourages the President to ‘not to divert significant Department of Defense funding for border security. Doing so would have detrimental consequences for our troops...’ The Republican chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, Senator Jim Inhofe (R-OK), stated his opposition to diverting critically needed military construction funding and urged the President to ‘leave [military construction] alone. This is a manufactured
02.19.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) Chairman of the U.S. House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies, Senior Member on the Military, Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies and serves on the Financial Services and General Government issued the following statement after voting in favor of the Consolidated Appropriations Act (H.J. Res. 31), a bill to fund the federal government for the remainder of the fiscal year ending September 30, 2019: “I want to thank the bipartisan and bicameral conferees for working so persistently to get something done for the American people. Although, both sides did not get everything they wanted, we cannot allow the perfect to be the enemy of the good. “I also strongly regret, however, that we are not able to consider the disaster supplemental in this appropriations bill! The House and Senate passed separate bills a month ago that would have provided desperately needed relief to our farmers, ranchers and communities, coast to coast, in Hawaii and the territories that were devastated by tragic disasters but those bills must still be reconciled. I look forward to working with my colleagues in the House and the Senate to get this disaster bill passed as fast as we can so the people affected by these natural disasters can get the relief they desperately need.” ### Watch Floor Remarks Here The Consolidated Appropriations Act (H.J. Res. 31) covers seven appropriations bills: Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies; Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies; Financial Services and General Government; Homeland Security; Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies; State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs; and Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies: Bill Highlights: The Homeland Security division provides $49.4 billion in discretionary funding, $2 billion above the President’s budget request and $1.7 billion above the FY 2018 enacted level. That amount includes $2 billion for defense-related activities, $113 million above the request. Additionally, the division provides $12 billion in major disaster funding. • Customs and Border Protection - $14.9 billion, $734 million above the President’s initial budget request and $942 million above the FY 2018 enacted level. • Provides $100 million for new border security technology. Provides $77 million for opioid equipment and staffing for use at international mail and express consignment facilities. Supports significant new investments in the Coast Guard’s fleets and facilities, including the first Polar Security Cutter in over 40 years, six new Fast Response Cutters, recapitalization of the MH-60 aircraft program, and an additional C-130 J aircraft. · Transportation Security Agency (TSA) – $4.9 billion in net discretionary funding, an increase of $884 million above the request and $5 million above the FY 2018 enacted level. The Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies division provides $23.042 billion in discretionary funding, $32 million above the FY2018 enacted level. In addition, it provides the latest estimates for mandatory programs required by law. · $3.64 billion for Rural Development, including $625 million in funding dedicated for infrastructure investments in Rural America. This total is $1.84 billion above the President’s budget request. · It includes language setting aside funding for persistent poverty counties. It has a modest increase for the Farm Production and Conservation mission area, which includes the Farm Service Agency that provides vital services to our farmers and ranchers. · Rural Broadband – $550 million for the rural broadband loan and grant pilot program, which is $50 million below the FY2018 enacted level and rejects the President’s proposed elimination of the program. · This includes funding for the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC), the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), and the Child Nutrition programs. · Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) – $6.075 billion in discretionary funding for WIC. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) – $3.08 billion in discretionary funding for the FDA, an increase of $269 million above the FY2018 enacted level and $103 million below the President’s budget request. Overall, total FDA funding, including user fee revenues, is $5.67 billion, which is $468 million above the FY2018 enacted level and $52 million below the request. U.S. Department of Commerce – $11.4 billion in overall discretionary funding for the Department of Commerce, an increase of $276.6 million above the FY 2018 enacted level and $1.6 billion above the President’s budget request. U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) – $30.9 billion overall for the Department of Justice, which is more than $638 million above the FY2018 enacted level and $2.1 billion above the President’s budget request. · United States Attorneys – $ 2.2 billion, an increase of $75 million above the FY2018 enacted level and $107 million above the President’s budget request. · United States Marshals Service – $2.93 billion, an increase of $25 million above the FY2018 enacted level and $104 million above the President’s budget request. · Federal Bureau of Investigation – $9.6 billion, an increase of $177 million above the FY2018 enacted level and $653 million above the President’s budget request. The Financial Services and General Government division provides $23.42 billion in discretionary funding, equal to the FY 2018 enacted level and $84 million below the President’s budget request, not including program integrity. Departmental Offices — $214.6 million, an increase of $12.8 million above the FY 2018 enacted level and the President’s budget request. This boost in resources will enable Treasury to cover implementation costs associated with the Foreign Investment Risk Review Modernization Act of 2018. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) — $11.3 billion, which is an increase of $75 million above the FY 2018 enacted level for base operations and $127 million more than the President’s budget request (not including program integrity). The bill includes $77 million designated for implementation of FY 2017 tax legislation. In addition, the bill provides increases above FY 2018 enacted levels for Operations Support (+$90 million) and Business Systems Modernization (+$40 million). The Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies division provides $35.6 billion in discretionary funding, $7.3 billion above the President’s budget request and $300 million above the FY2018 enacted level. · Bureau of Land Management — $1.31 billion in discretionary funding, an increase of $14 million above the FY2018 enacted level and $323 million above the President’s budget request. · U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service — $1.58 billion, which is $17 million below the FY2018 enacted level and $352 million above the President’s budget request. · National Park Service — $3.22 billion, an increase of $20 million above the FY2018 enacted level and $521 million above the President’s budget request. · Land and Water Conservation Fund — $435 million, which is $10 million above the FY 2018 enacted level and $435 million above the President’s budget request. The State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs division provides $54.2 billion in discretionary funding, including $8 billion in OCO funding. This is $11.9 billion above the President’s request, and $200 million above the fiscal year 2018 enacted level. · President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) - $5.7 billion, which is $50 million above the FY2018 enacted level and $945 million above the President’s budget request. This includes $1.35 billion for the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria. · U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) – $1.37 billion in total funding for the operating expenses of USAID, which is $25 million above the FY2018 enacted level and $258 million above the President’s budget request. The Transportation, and Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies division provides $71.1 billion in discretionary funding, $23.1 billion above the President’s budget request and $1 billion above the FY2018 enacted level. The total includes more than $17 billion in funding for new infrastructure projects in addition to $59 billion for infrastructure from dedicated fuel and aviation taxes. · National Infrastructure Investments (TIGER or BUILD)—$900 million, a decrease of $600 million below the FY2018 enacted level and $900 million above the President’s budget request. The funding will be allocated 50 percent to urban areas and 50 percent to rural areas. · Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)—$17.5 billion, which is $549 million below the FY2018 enacted level and $1.3 billion above the President’s budget request. Within this amount, Airport Improvement Program grants receive an additional $500 million to accelerate infrastructure investments at airports. · Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)—$49.3 billion, an increase of $1.8 billion above the FY2018 enacted level and $3.5 billion above the President’s budget request. Within this amount, Highway Infrastructure Programs are funded at $3.3 billion for highway and bridge rehabilitation and construction as well as safety improvements at railroad grade crossings. · Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (FMCSA)—$667 million, which is $178 million below the FY2018 enacted level and $1 million above the President’s budget request. · National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA)—$966 million, an increase of $19 million above the FY2018 enacted level and $52 million above the President’s budget request.
02.12.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) issued the following statement concerning the passing of Congressman Walter Jones: “I was saddened to hear of the passing of my colleague, Congressman Walter Jones. He was a staunch advocate and defender of our military on the House Armed Services Committee, and a heartfelt supporter of their families. He was a man of faith, always voted his conscience, and we are all better because of his service.
02.08.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) issued the following statement concerning the passing of former Congressman John Dingell. “I was deeply saddened to learn of the passing of my friend and former colleague, the former Dean of the House of Representatives, Congressman John Dingell. He was a true public servant as a World War Two veteran, and the longest serving Congressman of 59 years – devoting much of his career to improving access to health care, protecting the environment, ensuring the safety of our food supply, and providing effective oversight of the federal government. His love of country, humor, and service to others will be missed, but certainly not forgotten. My most heartfelt condolences go out to Congresswoman Debbie Dingell as well as their entire family, friends, and loved ones. May his spirit live on through the great legacy he created,” said Bishop.
02.06.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement on the President Trump’s State of the Union: “The President spoke of bipartisanship, and I hope this sentiment is sincere. However, he must abandon his divisive rhetoric, and put action behind his words. In the next week, we must avoid another disastrous shutdown and keep the government open. I urge the President to support the efforts of the bipartisan, bicameral conference committee as it negotiates an agreement to fund our government. The American people cannot afford to have their government let them down again.”
02.01.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement in recognition of Black History Month, which is celebrated during the month of February to recognize contributions that African-Americans have made to American culture and society: “‘The Father of Black History,’ Carter G. Woodson, was a distinguished historian and author who dedicated his life to preserving and promulgating the social, cultural, and factual records of African-American achievement. He is also the founder of Negro History Week, the precursor to what is now Black History Month. “Since its official designation in 1976, Black History Month has been reserved as a time to honor the momentous accomplishments, courageous strides, and lasting impacts that African-Americans have had on America’s history. Prominent figures such as Dr. George Washington Carver and Dr. Maya Angelou as well as Georgians like, Ray Charles; John Wesley Dobbs; Andrew Bryan; Lucy Craft Laney; Jackie Robinson; Hank Aaron; Fletcher Henderson; and Alice Walker were all leaders and heroes, who helped blaze a trail to equality for generations of African-Americans. “As the distinguished novelist, playwright, and poet, James Baldwin, once eloquently said, ‘Know from whence you came. If you know whence you came, there are absolutely no limitations to where you can go.’ As we enter Black History Month, it is my wish that Americans reflect on the rich contributions and the struggles that African-Americans endured so that we can all commit ourselves to striving towards an inclusive society. Because when we understand each other’s past, there will be no limitations to where we will go together.
01.25.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (D-GA-02) released the following statement after the President announced he would sign legislation that will temporarily reopen our government after 35 days of being shut down. “I was relieved to hear that the President will sign legislation to reopen the government for three weeks as this will allow our federal workers and contractors to be paid and provide Americans with the services to which they have been deprived. For 35 days we have asked to reopen the government, pay our workers and debate on border control security measures. In the meantime, I stand ready to do all I can to undo this damaging shutdown and give relief to the selfless 800,000 federal workers and all other Americans who have been hurt from this shutdown,” said Bishop
01.24.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Yesterday, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (D-GA-02), Chairman of the U.S. House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies, released the following statement after the full U.S. House of Representatives approved legislation to reopen the federal government by a vote of 234 to 180. This bill reflects government funding agreements negotiated by Republican and Democratic leaders in both the House and Senate last year. “Yesterday, I took to the House floor to speak on behalf of our federal workers facing another missed paycheck and all the Americans who have been deprived the services from closed federal agencies due to this misguided shutdown. Yesterday, the House of Representatives voted for legislation to provide full fiscal year 2019 funding to six departments and the dozens of agencies that were struck by this unnecessary, partial government shutdown. “The provisions included in this legislative package were previously agreed upon by my colleagues in both the minority and majority parties of the Senate and the House of Representatives. Had we voted on this package before, we certainly would not be in the mess we are in today. Furthermore, reopening the government will restart services that provide food safety inspections, the delivering of SNAP benefits and the issuance of loans to farmers. “Today, I voted for a bill to provide the Department of Homeland Security with funding until February 28, which will allow DHS employees to receive their back pay and give Congress and the President the opportunity to negotiate further on border security and immigration policy. We should be focusing on Twenty First Century solutions like advanced scanning technology at the border, increased infrastructure and more border patrol agents, a - smart wall - that keeps our borders secure and safe. Let’s reopen the government, pay our federal workers and get them back to work for their sake, their family’s sake, and the sake of all American people. Let’s do our job so they can do theirs,” said Bishop.
01.23.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) issued the following statement concerning the passing of former Congressman Jack Thomas Brinkley. “I was deeply saddened to learn of the passing of my dear friend, former Congressman Jack Brinkley,” said Congressman Bishop. “He was a great representative in Washington for our area and he served us with great distinction. Our nation has lost an exceptional public servant, and I have lost a trusted friend and mentor. Georgia and the nation are truly better because of his service and we extend our sincerest condolences to his family and friends.” Congressman Brinkley previously represented Columbus in the State House of Representatives from 1965-1966 and then was elected to the Third Congressional District of Georgia, where he served from 1967 to 1983. Prior to his service in the U.S. Congress, he was an educator and an U.S. Air Force pilot, who flew from 1951-1956. ###
01.17.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representatives Sanford Bishop (D-GA-02), Chairman Designate of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration and Related Agencies and Austin Scott (R-GA-08), a member of the House Agriculture Committee, filed an amendment to the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2019 (H.R. 268) which would increase emergency assistance funding to agricultural producers who suffered losses from hurricanes, wildfires, and other agricultural related losses in 2018. “Hurricane Michael devastated Southwest Georgia and left a path of destruction into Virginia. Across the State of Georgia, many producers suffered near 100 percent crop losses. The pecan, peanut, cotton, vegetable, and poultry industries all experienced significant damages not just in 2018, but for the last three straight years,” said Bishop. “I want to thank Austin Scott and the twelve bipartisan cosponsors of this amendment for our collaboration in developing solutions for these agricultural producers who suffered such great losses.” “Farmers and rural communities across our country have been reeling from the impacts of devastating losses from natural disasters. In my home state of Georgia alone, damages have been estimated at over $2.5 billion with many producers losing not only this year’s crop but impacting them for years to come,” said Rep. Scott. “For months now, Sanford Bishop and I have worked to deliver relief to farmers and rural communities in Georgia. I thank him for his support on this amendment, and I look forward to continuing to work with him and others to complete this process.” In response to Hurricanes Harvey, Irma, Maria, and other natural disasters in 2017, Congress created the Wildfires and Hurricanes Indemnity Program (WHIP) through the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018. This program through the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) provides disaster payments to agricultural producers to offset losses from hurricanes, wildfires, and other natural disasters. The Bishop-Scott amendment ensures $3 billion will be appropriated into WHIP to provide relief for producers impacted by Hurricane Michael and other natural disasters in 2018. Additional information on WHIP can be found on the USDA’s website by clicking here. Cosponsors of the amendment include U.S. Representatives Robert Aderholt (R-AL-04), Neal Dunn (R-FL-02), Josh Harder (D-CA-10), Al Lawson (D-FL-05), Tom Rice (R-SC-07), Martha Roby (R-AL-02), David Rouzer (R-NC-07), David Scott (D-GA-13), Terri Sewell (D-AL-07), Darren Soto (D-FL09), Joe Wilson (R-SC-02), and Ted Yoho (R-FL-03).
01.17.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Yesterday, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (D-GA-02), Chairman Designate of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies, released the following statement after voting in support of the Disaster Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2019 (H.R. 268) which was approved by a vote of 237 to 187: “Hurricanes, wildfires, mudslides, and floods devastated regions of our country and have left communities wondering how they will recover. This bill will provide them with the tools they need to begin to repair and rebuild their farms, homes, and small businesses. This is not a red or blue issue. If we do not support these communities, we all will feel the effects as Americans. I urge my colleagues in the Senate to take up this legislation and send it to the President’s desk so we can reopen the government and help the people of Georgia’s Second District, and the other communities across the country and its territories, including Puerto Rico, the Northern Mariana Islands, and the Virgin Islands.” Congressman Bishop submitted an amendment with his Republican colleague, Rep. Austin Scott (GA-08) to increase payments for losses from 85 to 90 percent for producers with crop insurance and from 65 to 70 percent for producers without insurance and increase funding levels from $1.1 billion that was initially recommended by the USDA to $3 billion.
01.17.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Yesterday, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (D-GA02) was nominated by the House Appropriations Committee to become Chairman of the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Subcommittee for the 116th Congress (2019-2020). Bishop also will be re-joining the Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies Appropriations Subcommittee, and the Financial Services and General Government Appropriations Subcommittee. Before the nomination is finalized, it must be formally approved by the House Democratic Steering and Policy Committee as well as the House Democratic Caucus. “It is a great honor to be nominated as the Chairman of the Agriculture Appropriations Subcommittee,” said Bishop. “Agriculture is a key component of Georgia’s economy, and I look forward to serving in this position so that I can fight for our farmers, promote rural development, and ensure that our nation’s food supply and our medicines are safe now and into the future.” “Georgia agriculture contributes more than $71 billion annually to the state and national economy,” continued Bishop. “The Second Congressional District leads the state in peanuts, cotton, pecans, fruits, and vegetables, as well as family-owned timberlands. More importantly, 26 of the 29 counties I represent in Congress are rural. I have strongly supported rural development initiatives to help bridge the urban-rural divide and provide greater economic opportunities. “The Second District also is home to two military bases where service members, and civil personnel work tirelessly to keep us safe. As a senior member on the Military Construction-Veterans Affairs Appropriations Subcommittee, I will continue to work hard for those who are serving now and the veterans that served before them. “As a member on the Financial Services and General Government Appropriations Subcommittee, I will work with the financial services industry, ‘transaction alley’, to help the great state of Georgia, which leads the world in fintech - so we can continue to build upon our successes, create jobs and grow our economy for generations to come,” said Bishop.
01.10.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (D-GA02) released the following statement today after passage in the United States House of Representatives of the Fiscal Year 2019 Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration (FDA), and Related Agencies Appropriations Act (H.R. 265). Representative Bishop is the Chairman-designate of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture. H.R. 265 is largely the same measure that was approved by the United States Senate last year on a bipartisan vote of 92 to 6. Should this legislation, which the House passed by a vote of 243 to 183, subsequently be approved by the U.S. Senate and signed into law by the President, it would reopen those U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) offices that are currently closed due to the government shutdown and retroactively pay federal workers who are being furloughed. “The closure of the USDA due to the government shutdown has caused a real winter of discontent for our nation’s farmers and all Americans who depend on a safe and secure food supply,” said Bishop. “It makes little sense that rural communities in Georgia and across the country are being held hostage by an Administration that already has done much damage to farmers by his reckless tariff war. The shutdown becomes more and more precarious for all Americans every day that it continues. Whether it is reductions in food safety inspections or the delayed approval of innovative medicines conducted by the FDA, we all fall victim to this shutdown. I urge my Senate colleagues to vote on this legislation and send it to the President’s desk and end this shutdown.” During the House debate, Congressman Bishop delivered the following remarks on H.R. 265: OPENING STATEMENT FOR CONGRESSMAN BISHOP AGRICULTURE APPROPRIATIONS January 10, 2019 Today marks the 20th day of the partial government shutdown. Each day pushes many of our government’s vital services to the breaking point – further jeopardizing the 800,000 federal employees who are furloughed and the countless other Americans impacted by the shutdown. The Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations bill is a critically important piece of legislation for the nation. From the food we eat to the medications we depend on, this bill touches the lives of every American. It must be passed now and the furloughed employees must be brought back to work. Because of the shutdown, USDA has stopped making loans and grants for rural development programs, such as housing, water and wastewater facilities and community facilities. New grants to our universities for agriculture research cannot be made. Across the nation, Farm Service Agency county offices closed on December 28. Farmers applying for relief from retaliatory tariffs are in limbo waiting for the shutdown to end. At the FDA, more than 10,000 employees are working without pay, while another 7,000 have been furloughed which is impacting everything from user fee collections to the reduction of food safety inspections - jeopardizing the food we eat. According to USDA, nearly 9,000 people are working without pay to inspect our meat, poultry, and egg products. This bill would fund the Food Safety and Inspection Service at over $1 billion and restore our safety. I will be the first person to admit this bill is not perfect. But no bill ever is. However, this is about opening the government and putting it back to work for the American people. Specially, this legislation provides over $23 billion in discretionary funding for USDA and FDA. That is $225 million above the FY 2018 enacted level. It provides $2.73 billion for agricultural research conducted by ARS and NIFA, an increase of $114 million from Fiscal Year 2018. These increases will help to ensure American agriculture remains competitive with other nations. In my district, all of the USDA Farm County offices are now closed in Terrell County. These offices are often the primary line of communication for our farmers and ranchers by providing critical data, processing loans, and answering questions. Without this assistance and information, they are left in the dark when it comes to planning for next year’s harvest. This legislation also makes significant investments in rural development by providing $3.8 billion, and takes a balanced approach with investments in water and waste, broadband, housing and rural businesses. Again, right now, as a result of the shutdown, loans and grants that help small towns across the country are not being made. This legislation rejects the President’s proposed elimination of the Food for Peace and instead funds it at $1.716 billion, which is $216 million above the House bill. And the McGovern-Dole program, which was also proposed for elimination by the President, is funded at $210 million, slightly above the House level. Finally, this legislation funds FDA at $2.97 billion, which is $159 million above the FY2018 enacted level – a six percent increase. I would also point out that this bill does better than the House bill in addressing the opioid crisis that is hitting every district in the country. It also provides more funding for food safety than the House bill. After nearly three weeks of uncertainty, it looks like the nearly 40 million people receiving Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) benefits will keep their benefits, at least through February. However, the funds for SNAP beneficiaries for a single mother or a small shop keeper will run dry in March. This bill, which provides $73.2 billion in mandatory funding for SNAP, will end any doubt about this and give these recipients the peace of mind they deserve. Through a diverse urban/rural coalition, this legislation includes our farmer safety net and our food and nutrition programs. Families, farmers, ranchers, and producers go to work every morning. So should their government. I urge my colleagues to support this bill.
01.09.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) and Congressman Austin Scott (GA-08) reintroduced bipartisan legislation to create Georgia’s second national historical park, entitled the Ocmulgee Mounds National Historical Park Boundary Revision Act of 2019 (H.R. 283). Congressman Barry Loudermilk (GA-11) also is an original co-sponsor of the legislation. The legislation will expand the current Ocmulgee National Monument from 702 acres to 2,800 acres, change the name of the park from “Ocmulgee National Monument” to “Ocmulgee Mounds National Historical Park” to increase name recognition, and authorize a resources study to include recreational activities such as hunting, fishing, and camping. It was approved by the United States House of Representatives in both the 114th Congress (2015-2016) and the 115th Congress (2017-2018) but was not considered by the full United States Senate. The bill, however, was included in a Senate omnibus parks package at the end of the 115th Congress that was not voted on largely due to timing issues. It is expected that the Senate will consider the omnibus parks legislation in early 2019. “The Ocmulgee Mounds is a true cultural and archaeological treasure to Georgia and the entire nation,” said Bishop. “I am confident that this important bipartisan legislation will soon get across the finish line so that it will strengthen the current Ocmulgee National Monument and bolster the economy and cultural life of Georgia and beyond.” “Ensuring that the Ocmulgee Mounds receive the historical recognition they deserve will have a lasting positive economic and cultural impact in Middle Georgia,” said Congressman Austin Scott. “It is for our constituents in Middle Georgia that we come together in a bipartisan, bicameral manner to reintroduce this legislation that will preserve our state’s history for future generations.” Due to its history and archaeological importance, expanding Ocmulgee National Monument to Ocmulgee Mounds National Historical Park will be a lasting memorial to how individuals relate to the land and other natural resources. This expansion and improvement will be a fitting tribute to the Native Americans who first came to this historic site during the Paleo-Indian period. The park also will generate tourist revenue for Macon, Georgia and the surrounding areas while educating visitors on the little known fact that different cultures have occupied this land for thousands of years. The mounds and earth-lodges that the Mississippians built to serve as formal council chambers when they arrived in Macon around 900 A.D. remain intact for all to see and appreciate. Ocmulgee National Monument was originally authorized by Congress in 1934 to protect a fraction of the lands commonly known as the 'Old Ocmulgee Fields,' upon which certain Indian mounds of great historical importance are located. The legislation envisioned a large park of approximately 2,000 acres but local citizens could finance the acquisition of only 678 acres by the time it opened in 1936. Today, the Ocmulgee National Monument contains 702 acres. The role of the Ocmulgee National Monument is to "present a story of many stages of prehistoric cultural development, emphasizing the influences of agriculture, the Mound Builder period, and the relationship of these various cultures to each other and to life today." The Ocmulgee Mounds National Historical Park Boundary Revision Act enjoys support from the Inter-Tribal Council of the Five Civilized Tribes (Cherokee, Chickasaw, Choctaw, Muscogee [Creek], and Seminole Nations), which represent over 500,000 Native Americans throughout the United States
01.04.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) Chairman Designate of the U.S. House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, released the following statement after the Democrats in the House of Representatives passed a government funding package that would reopen the government and give much needed relief to the federal workers and all others who have been negatively affected by the administration’s continued decision to keep the government shutdown. This bill goes to the Senate, where it awaits further action. “President Trump left a lump of coal in the stockings of thousands of federal workers this past holiday season by furloughing them, putting them at risk of losing their paychecks, and sowing uncertainty into their futures. I stood with the new democratic majority in the House to pass a spending bill that will reopen the federal government as its first order of business. It is our first and foremost duty to come together and govern responsibly for the American people and keep the government open and functioning,” said Bishop. During the deliberation of the funding package, Congressman Bishop delivered the below remarks on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives. Additional bill background and highlights can be found at the bottom of this statement. I thank the Gentlelady for yielding. We are now in the 13th day of a partial government shutdown. Vital government services that the public relies on have slowed or stopped all together. Specifically, the US Department of Agriculture has stopped issuing loans for rural development and grants for housing and community facilities. New grant payments for agriculture research cannot be made. Across the nation, Farm Service Agency county offices closed on December 28. Furthermore, farmers applying for relief from retaliatory tariffs are in limbo waiting for the shutdown to end. The bill before us today is a serious effort to end this needless shutdown and get the government back to work for the American people. The Agriculture section is virtually identical to the legislation that the Senate passed last August by a vote of 92-6! This impressive bipartisan vote is the result of the Senate agreeing to work together constructively to develop their bills. This bill is not perfect - no bill ever is. But again, this is a serious bill that would get the government working again for the American people. Not only are we in the middle of a needless shutdown, but we are already four months into Fiscal Year 2019. Federal agencies and departments deserve certainty and stability. As we begin a new Congress, I hope we can renew our commitment to responsibly fund the government. This bill provides $3.8 billion for Rural Development. These much needed resources will help communities that face broadband, housing, water and wastewater, and healthcare challenges. The legislation provides an additional $425 million for rural broadband expansion, continuing our commitment to bridge the digital divide. It responsibly funds the McGovern-Dole and Food for Peace programs that provide essential food to help keep children in school and help feed hungry people abroad. It provides $2.73 billion in agricultural research, which is an increase of $114 million above the Fiscal Year 2018 enacted level. It funds the Farm Service Agency at $1.625 million. And it funds Natural Resources Conservation Service at $879.1 million. The bill provides $73.2 billion in mandatory funding for the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), which will soon begin to run out of funding if action is not taken. Last year, SNAP helped more than 42 million people and it is widely considered an efficient and successful safety net that offers desperately needed support to those in need. Finally, the Food and Drug Administration is funded at $2.97 billion and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission is funded at the requested level of $281.5 million. Farmers, ranchers, and producers go to work every morning. So should their government. I urge my colleagues to support this bill and I yield back. FY19 Funding Summaries Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies (PDF, 3pp) Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies (PDF, 4pp) Financial Services and General Government (PDF, 3pp) Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies (PDF, 3pp) State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs (PDF, 3pp) Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies (PDF, 3pp) Continuing Resolution for Homeland Security (PDF, 1pp)
12.20.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Ranking Member of the U.S. House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, delivered the following statement on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives on the continuing resolution considered earlier this evening. Congressman Bishop opposed the legislation. The bill passed in a 217 to 185 vote by the full U.S. House of Representatives. As a legislative body, one of Congress’s core responsibilities is to keep the government open and working for the people. Another core responsibility is to help communities struck by disaster to recover and rebuild. The continuing resolution before us is not a sufficient response to these vital needs. It includes only token disaster relief for rural communities and farmers in Middle and Southwest Georgia that were devastated by Hurricane Michael and other disasters that occurred in 2018. It does not include a number of provisions that were being negotiated: It includes only $8 million for impacted rural communities, instead of $150 million; It does not change the percentage recovery for crop losses from 85% for those with crop insurance to 90% and from 65% for those without crop insurance to 70%; It includes less than half of the estimated need for the Emergency Forest Restoration Program ($200 million instead of $480 million) It does not include the lower threshold for pecan tree mortality of 7.5% but leaves it at the current law level of 15%, making the Tree Assistance Program unusable; It does not include the most recent estimate for Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands Disaster Nutrition ($8.5 million instead of $9.3 million); and Finally, it does not include any of the $600 million needed for Puerto Rico nutrition assistance. Unfortunately, it does include significant funding for a misguided and wasteful wall on our southwestern border. This wall would do nothing to improve our nation’s security and is a serious misallocation of taxpayer dollars. It should have been stripped from this important funding legislation and considered separately. Congress has already provided almost $2 billion for border wall funding over two years, but the administration has only used 6% of these funds. Furthermore, this legislation is dead on arrival in the Senate. We must do better. We must meet the significant needs of my Georgia constituents and Americans across the country that are still rebuilding from Hurricane Michael and other recent disasters. And we must pass a government funding bill that would avoid the significant damage that would be caused by a government shutdown. Governing by deadline is no way to govern. We must come together and finalize a long-term appropriations measure that provides certainty to Americans across the country. As Chairman-Designee of the U.S. House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture for the 116th Congress, I look forward to working with my colleagues to craft disaster assistance legislation that more adequately addresses the needs of our farmers, ranchers, foresters, agribusinesses, consumers, and rural communities.
12.12.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Ranking Member of the U.S. House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, released the following statement on today’s passage of the Farm Bill by the House of Representatives in a vote of 369 to 47. Congressman Bishop supported the legislation. The Senate passed the legislation yesterday by a vote of 87-13, and it now heads to the President’s desk for signature. “Today, I gladly provided my support for the 2018 Farm Bill. After months of negotiations, I am pleased that many of the harmful, short-sighted provisions of the original House bill, that I initially voted against in June, were dropped. From the beginning of this process, I have stressed the need to strengthen the farmer safety net, invest in rural development, maintain conservation programs, and adequately fund our food and nutrition programs. This bill does those things, and more, and most importantly, it provides stability and certainty to those who rely on its vital programs. “The bill extends commodity protections for agriculture products including peanuts, cotton, soybeans, corn, wheat, oats, rice, and grain sorghum. The bill largely maintains and builds on the farmer safety net programs from the 2014 Farm Bill by making improvements to the Price Loss Coverage (PLC) and Agriculture Risk Coverage (ARC) that allow farmers greater choice. It improves farmers’ cash flow and access to credit by increasing marketing loan rates. For the purpose of payments and benefits, it expands the definition of actively engaged in farming to include first cousins, nieces, and nephews. The bill does not include reductions to payment limits and did not adopt a provision to reduce the Adjusted Gross Income limitation to $700,000 from $900,000. “The bill allows farmers to update their average crop yields with USDA, which increases the amount of support they can receive. And while I was disappointed that the Senate amendment to provide $18 million for blueberry and peach losses in 2017 was not included, I am nonetheless pleased that the bill increased the cost reimbursement for beginning farmers, ranchers, and veterans under the Tree Assistance Program to 75 percent, which covers pecans and other tree crops. On the forestry front, the bill also maintains forest pest and disease treatment programs, administered by the U.S. Forest Service. “The agreement is also a big win for rural communities. It reauthorizes rural water and wastewater programs, and authorizes an additional $350 million for broadband infrastructure, which is a stark reminder that too many people in rural America still lack adequate broadband. Additionally, the bill includes provisions to combat the opioid epidemic, improve rural hospital financing, and promote rural entrepreneurship. The bill also establishes a rural health liaison that will be responsible for working with stakeholders and other agencies to effectively respond to rural health needs. “The agreement kept the structure of the Conservation Stewardship Program (CSP), which helps farmers to address soil health, water quality, and other environmental issues on their land, as well as the Environmental Quality Incentives Program (EQIP), a voluntary program that incentivizes farmers to implement conservation practices. The agreement also increased the Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) by 3 million acres to 27 million acres. “Earlier this year, I urged my colleagues to invest in agriculture research. I am happy that the grant program that awards scholarships to students at 1890 Land-Grant institutions received $40 million in mandatory funding and another $40 million in discretionary authorization, which will help young African-Americans pursue a career in agriculture. The bill also creates three centers of excellence at 1890 land-grants to focus on food security and rural quality of life. Additionally, the bill increases research into automation and mechanization for fruits and vegetables. With these important investments in research, American agriculture will remain unparalleled in the world. “The agreement also includes mandatory funding for the promotion of U.S. agricultural exports, through such programs as the Market Access Program. It also provides for the availability of marketing agreements and orders for pecans and cherries. Many farmers and ranchers remain concerned about retaliatory tariffs and these programs will help farmers explore new markets and opportunities. “Additionally, the Farm Bill includes funding that I requested for the newly established Farming Opportunities Training and Outreach Program. This new program merges the Beginning Farmer and Ranchers Development Program (BFRDP) and the Outreach and Assistance for Socially Disadvantaged Farmers and Ranchers and Veteran Farmers and Ranchers (OASDVFR), which will allow USDA to more effectively reach and invest in these groups to ensure their success. “Finally, the agreement does not include new, onerous work requirements for Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) recipients. Instead it increases job training opportunities to help people find work. Last year, SNAP helped more than 42 million people, and some 1.6 million Georgians. It is widely considered an efficient and successful safety net that offers desperately needed support to those in need. “I thank my colleagues in the House and Senate for their diligent work on this legislation, and I urge the President to quickly sign the Farm Bill into law.”
12.11.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement on the closure of schools under the umbrella of the Education Corporation of America, which includes Virginia College with locations in both Columbus, GA and Macon, GA. “I am disappointed with the immediate closure of Virginia College and its campuses located in both Columbus and Macon. I have already reached out to the Department of Education and the Department of Veteran Affairs to ensure they are doing everything they can to assist students. This was an unexpected announcement, and I will continue to do everything in my power to provide students affected by this closure assistance in overcoming this hardship.” The U.S. Department of Education and the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs have provided the following resources for impacted students. These resources provide guidance on the potential discharge of federal student loans and other options for impacted students: — The U.S. Department of Education’s official fact sheet for the closure of Education Corporation of America can be found here. — The U.S. Department of Education’s official website for closed school federal loan discharge can be found here. — The U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs’ website for the restoration of GI Benefits is can be found here. ###
12.11.2018	MACON, GA – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) is pleased to announce that the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) has awarded a $7.14 million grant to the Macon-Bibb County Economic Opportunity Council, Inc. to support Head Start and Early Head Start programs in Georgia. Head Start programs promote quality school readiness for children from birth to five years old who come from low income families through education, health, social and other services. “I am very pleased with the generous Head Start grant awarded to the Macon-Bibb County Economic Opportunity Council, Inc.,” said Congressman Bishop. “A strong learning foundation is vital for the future success of our nation’s children. This grant will help ensure this foundation by providing crucial resources to disadvantaged children and families to combat economic and social barriers throughout the Macon-Bibb county area.” Founded in 1965, the Head Start program has served 30 million children and families in urban and rural areas across the nation and U.S. territories. The program is administered by HHS’s Office of Head Start within the Administration for Children and Families. Additional information on the program can be found here.
12.01.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement regarding the passing yesterday of George H.W. Bush, the 41st President of the United States: “I was saddened to learn of the death of former President George H.W. Bush. He led our nation through some of the most significant global changes in the modern era, not only as the 41st President, but also through his service as Vice President, Director of the CIA, top U.S. envoy to China, Ambassador to the U.N., U.S. Representative from Texas, and as a naval aviator during World War II. “The world has lost an esteemed statesman, decorated Navy pilot, and accomplished public servant. He will forever be remembered for his service and the impeccable legacy he left behind. “My wife Vivian and I, along with the people of Georgia’s 2nd Congressional District and Americans everywhere, extend our most heartfelt condolences to the Bush family during this difficult time.”
11.28.2018	COLUMBUS, GA – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) is pleased to announce that the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’ (HHS) Health Resources & Services Administration (HRSA) has awarded a $2,788,570 grant under the Health Center Cluster Grant Program to Valley Healthcare System in Columbus, Georgia. “Health centers are vital to overcoming economic, geographic, and cultural barriers to care across America,” said Congressman Bishop. “The money awarded to Valley Healthcare System in Columbus will help to ensure that the residents of the Chattahoochee Valley Area receive the quality and affordable health care they need and deserve. I would like to thank the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services for their generous allocation of funds and for their commitment to the health and wellbeing of our citizenry.” HRSA is the main federal agency dedicated to improving health care for people who are geographically isolated and economically or medically vulnerable. Today’s grant funding was awarded through HRSA’s Health Center Cluster Grant Program, which is a competitive grant program that supports institutions dedicated to improving health care to underserved communities throughout the United States. These competitive grants are used to improve patient access to quality services, practitioners, and treatments. Over its more than 50 year history, the Health Center Program has helped foster the growth and efficacy of heath care centers, which now include nearly 1,400 health centers operating at more than 11,000 sites in every U.S. state, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, and the Pacific Basin. Additional information on HRSA and the Health Center Program can be found here.
11.21.2018	TALBOTTON, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) is pleased to announce that the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) Rural Development agencies have awarded $176,000 in loans and $50,000 in grants for two projects in the 2nd Congressional District of Georgia. This award is part of a package of $503 million in USDA Community Facilities Health Care investments for 61 projects nationwide to help improve health care infrastructure and services in rural communities. Both of the projects in the 2nd Congressional District of Georgia will support the Talbotton Medical/Dental Clinic of the Valley Healthcare System in serving 6,865 residents in the City of Talbotton and the surrounding region. The first loan and grant package will be used to purchase X-ray equipment, and the second will be used to purchase pharmacy shelving. The Talbotton Medical/Dental Clinic is a full-service primary medical care and general dentistry practice. “Health care access is a pressing issue that impacts individuals across the country, and it is a particular challenge for Rural America,” said Congressman Bishop. “I commend the USDA for investing in improvements to rural health care in Middle and Southwest Georgia, and for its ongoing commitment to ensuring all Americans have access to quality health care services regardless of where they call home.” USDA Rural Development provides loans and grants to help expand economic opportunities and create jobs in rural areas. USDA Rural Development supports infrastructure improvements, business development, housing, community facilities such as schools, public safety and health care, and high-speed internet access in rural areas. Additional information on USDA and its Rural Development agencies can be found here.
11.21.2018	MACON, GA – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) issued the following statement concerning the passing yesterday of former Congressman Mac Collins: “I was deeply saddened to learn of the passing of my colleague and friend, former Georgia Congressman Mac Collins. We served together in the Georgia State Senate as well as in the U.S. Congress. My wife Vivian and I greatly enjoyed our friendship with Mac and Julie. He was an exceptional public servant, entrepreneur, and statesman. “On behalf of all Georgians, my wife Vivian and I extend our most heartfelt condolences to Congressman Collins’ family and friends and our deepest gratitude for his service and friendship.”
11.11.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), a senior member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies and Co-Chair of the Congressional Military Family Caucus (CMFC), released the following statement honoring our nation's veterans in recognition of Veterans Day: “This day, exactly 100 years ago, marked the end of World War I. World War I dramatically changed our nation’s role on the world stage. For the past 100 years, our nation’s soldiers, sailors, airmen, and marines have defended, and continue to defend, our nation from threats all across the world. Even as this release is being published, approximately 200,000 service members are currently deployed in nearly 180 countries, nearly 20,000 of whom are deployed in combat. “This Veterans Day, join me in honoring the courageous men and women who fought and continue to fight tirelessly to defend America’s freedom. We honor the selfless service and sacrifice that our veterans and their families make to keep our nation safe and strong. As Americans, it is our duty to do all we can to honor our veterans and to provide them with the resources they need and deserve. “I would like to extend my sincerest gratitude to all of the men and women that have served in our nation’s Armed Forces. To all the veterans across America, I proudly stand with Georgia’s 2nd Congressional District to say thank you. You have served honorably to uphold the ideals upon which the United States was built, and for that we are eternally grateful. God bless our vets and God bless the United States of America.”
11.01.2018	ALBANY, GA – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement thanking the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers for taking action to expedite debris removal activities in Middle and Southwest Georgia. The region suffered a direct hit last month by Hurricane Michael and there are substantial cleanup and recovery needs still remaining. “I thank the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers for taking action to expedite debris removal activities in Middle and Southwest Georgia. The area remains devastated from Hurricane Michael and words cannot describe the amount of debris that was left in the aftermath. The massive amount of debris strewn throughout the region has created substantial safety and health hazards for residents in the impacted counties. The debris has also contributed to the risk of wildfires in the area. “I have been on the ground and in constant contact with local leaders, constituents, and state and federal officials. I have seen the destruction firsthand. The Army Corps’ decision will help ensure the region receives the resources necessary to remove the mountainous amounts of debris created by Hurricane Michael. I look forward to continuing to work with the Army Corps and our Middle and Southwest Georgia communities to ensure adequate resources flow to where they are needed.”
10.30.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Ranking Member Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) and Chairman Robert Aderholt (AL-04), the leading members of the U.S. House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, sent a letter to Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) and Ranking Member Nita Lowey (NY-17), the leading members of the full U.S. House Appropriations Committee, urging passage of a supplemental disaster appropriations bill to address the series of natural disasters in 2018 that have caused widespread destruction and significant losses for our nation’s farmers and the communities in which they live. There is an urgent need for a supplemental disaster appropriations bill to help farmers, ranchers, and rural communities recover and rebuild. The Members wrote in their letter: “On October 10, 2018, Hurricane Michael, one of the most powerful storms to make landfall in the United States, left a path of devastation from Florida to Virginia. While the damage is still being assessed, it is estimated that total agricultural losses could exceed $4 billion. Less than a month earlier, Hurricane Florence slammed into North Carolina and South Carolina causing $22 billion in damages. In addition, wildfires across the western states have consumed more than 8 million acres to date. While there is never a good time for a storm like Michael, it hit at the worst time possible for farmers. With depressed commodity prices and markets closed due to retaliatory trade measures, it made the hurricane’s impact even greater.” They continued: “It is our responsibility, and the responsibility of the other Members of Congress, to find solutions and provide relief to those in need. We look forward to working with you, and the full House Appropriations committee, as well as the entire Congress on a supplemental appropriations package and to reexamine federal policies where necessary.” The full letter can be found here and below. ---------------- Tuesday, October 30, 2018 The Honorable Rodney Frelinghuysen Chairman House Committee on Appropriations H-305, The Capitol Washington, DC 20515 The Honorable Nita Lowey Ranking Member House Committee on Appropriations 1016 Longworth HOB Washington, DC 20515 Dear Chairman Frelinghuysen and Ranking Member Lowey: We are writing as Chairman and Ranking Member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture regarding the series of natural disasters in 2018 that have caused widespread destruction and significant losses for our nation’s farmers and the communities in which they live. Unfortunately, many producers suffered near 100 percent crop losses. There is an urgent need for a supplemental disaster appropriations bill to deal with these disasters and to help our farmers, ranchers and rural communities recover and rebuild. On October 10, 2018, Hurricane Michael, one of the most powerful storms to make landfall in the United States, left a path of devastation from Florida to Virginia. While the damage is still being assessed, it is estimated that total agricultural losses could exceed $4 billion. Less than a month earlier, Hurricane Florence slammed into North Carolina and South Carolina causing $22 billion in damages. In addition, wildfires across the western states have consumed more than 8 million acres to date. While there is never a good time for a storm like Michael, it hit at the worst time possible for farmers. With depressed commodity prices and markets closed due to retaliatory trade measures, it made the hurricane’s impact even greater. The losses are staggering. In North Carolina, Hurricane Florence killed more than 5,500 pigs and 3.4 million chickens. Several lagoons responsible for containing animal waste were breached and are in need of repair. Similarly, in Georgia, Hurricane Michael destroyed 97 chicken houses and killed more than 2 million chickens. Hurricane Michael also devastated the Georgia cotton crop, which was nearing peak harvest and was on track to be the best season in years. Cotton losses in Georgia are estimated to be between $550 and $600 million. For the third straight year, hurricane damage also caused significant losses to the pecan crop, both in trees and nuts in Georgia. Peanuts, vegetables, landscaping, and agritourism were hit hard as well. In Alabama, Michael also did hundreds of millions of dollars in agricultural damage. Particularly hard hit were cotton, peanuts, timber, pecans and livestock and specialty crops. There is also a great deal of damage to farm infrastructure. In California, where wildfires raged for a second consecutive year, farmers and ranchers suffered losses to their vineyards, fruit crop, rangeland, and beehives. Specifically, there is a vital need to address timber loses. In Florida, Georgia and Alabama, the timber industry has suffered what has been called “generational” damage to tens of thousands of acres of timberland. Western states lost thousands of acres of timberland to wildfires. These losses are unimaginable; however, the industry has little recourse. After viewing the destruction of Hurricane Michael, Vice President Pence said, "Our administration will continue unrelentingly to deploy the man power and resources of the federal government to this region and to these communities until [they] come all the way back.” US Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue said, "Having seen firsthand some of the catastrophic damage from Hurricane Michael, I know that farmers will need all the help they can get to recover." We support this call to action to help those impacted by Hurricane Michael and other natural disasters this year. It is our responsibility, and the responsibility of the other Members of Congress, to find solutions and provide relief to those in need. We look forward to working with you, and the full House Appropriations committee, as well as the entire Congress on a supplemental appropriations package and to reexamine federal policies where necessary. Sincerely, Robert B. Aderholt Chairman, House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. Ranking Member, House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies
10.25.2018	ALBANY, GA – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) welcomed today’s amendment to the major disaster declaration for Georgia that expands coverage for the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) Individual Assistance program to also include Calhoun, Clay, Laurens, Randolph, Sumter, Tift, and Turner counties. This is the second amendment to FEMA’s major disaster declaration for the State of Georgia. Calhoun, Clay, Sumter, and Randolph counties are located in the 2nd Congressional District of Georgia, which is represented by Congressman Bishop. “I thank FEMA for recognizing the significant recovery needs facing Middle and Southwest Georgia following Hurricane Michael,” said Congressman Bishop. “As the recovery process moves forward, the full scope of damage to the region is becoming more and more apparent. This amendment to the major disaster declaration will ensure additional communities receive the help they need to rebuild.” FEMA’s Individual Assistance program provides federal resources for impacted individuals and households, including financial assistance for temporary housing, home-repair, and damage to essential household items. This assistance also covers disaster-related childcare, medical, and essential vehicle expenses. After today’s amendment, the full list of counties covered by FEMA’s Individual Assistance program includes Baker, Calhoun, Clay, Crisp, Decatur, Dougherty, Early, Grady, Laurens, Lee, Miller, Mitchell, Randolph, Sumter, Terrell, Thomas, Tift, Turner, Seminole, and Worth counties. Additional designations may be forthcoming. Further information on eligibility for FEMA assistance, local resources, and the application process can be found at www.disasterassistance.gov or by calling 1-800-621-FEMA (3362) or 1-800-462-7585 (TTY) for the hearing and speech impaired. Those who use 711 or Video Relay Service (VRS) can call 1-800-621-3362. The toll-free telephone numbers are currently operational from 7 a.m. to 11 p.m. (Eastern Time) seven days a week.
10.17.2018	ALBANY, GA – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) welcomed last night’s amendment to the major disaster declaration for Georgia that expands coverage for the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) Individual Assistance program to also include Crisp, Grady, Lee, Mitchell, Terrell, Thomas, and Worth counties. “I thank FEMA for recognizing the tremendous recovery needs of communities in Southwest Georgia, which were truly devastated by Hurricane Michael,” said Congressman Bishop. “We are still in the early stages of the recovery process, but this assistance will go a long way toward helping communities rebuild and helping families return to a sense of normalcy.” FEMA’s Individual Assistance program provides federal resources for impacted individuals and households, including financial assistance for temporary housing, home-repair, and damage to essential household items. This assistance also covers disaster-related childcare, medical, and essential vehicle expenses. After today’s amendment, the full list of counties covered by FEMA’s Individual Assistance program includes Baker, Crisp, Decatur, Dougherty, Early, Grady, Lee, Miller, Mitchell, Terrell, Thomas, Seminole, and Worth counties. Additional designations may be forthcoming. Further information on eligibility for FEMA assistance, local resources, and the application process can be found at www.disasterassistance.gov or by calling 1-800-621-FEMA (3362) or 1-800-462-7585 (TTY) for the hearing and speech impaired. Those who use 711 or Video Relay Service (VRS) can call 1-800-621-3362. The toll-free telephone numbers are currently operational from 7 a.m. to 11 p.m. (Eastern Time) seven days a week.
10.15.2018	MACON, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) joined Congressman Austin Scott (GA-08), President Donald Trump, First Lady Melania Trump, Governor Nathan Deal, U.S. Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue, Georgia Agriculture Commissioner Gary Black, and U.S. Secretary of Homeland Security Kirstjen Nielsen for a briefing on Hurricane Michael recovery efforts held at the Red Cross’s temporary disaster operations center in Macon, Georgia. Tomorrow, Congressman Bishop, Secretary Perdue, and Commissioner Black will be joined by Vice President Mike Pence as they meet with farmers and agribusinesses in some the hardest hit areas of Southwest Georgia. “Responding to natural disasters and helping our communities recover is a responsibility we all share regardless of ideology or political affiliation,” said Congressman Bishop. “We need robust and expedient assistance, and I am working tirelessly to secure relief for all those impacted by Hurricane Michael. Agriculture was particularly devastated by Hurricane Michael, causing enormous damage to Georgia’s pecan, cotton, and peanut crop. Some farmers are facing a total loss.” Tomorrow’s meetings with impacted farmers and agribusinesses will help inform the ongoing federal response to Hurricane Michael, which struck Middle and Southwest Georgia on October 10, 2018. The hurricane caused significant destruction in the region, and a federal disaster declaration was formally issued on October 14, 2018. A federal emergency declaration was previously issued on October 11, 2018. Information on potential eligibility for federal emergency disaster assistance may be found here. Contact information for county emergency contact agencies can be found here. Details and eligibility requirements regarding USDA's disaster assistance programs can be found by contacting the relevant local USDA Service Center.
10.15.2018	ALBANY, GA – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) welcomed the major disaster declaration issued by the President late yesterday for counties in Middle and Southwest Georgia struck by Hurricane Michael on October 10, 2018. The declaration opens up potential eligibility for additional federal individual disaster assistance from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). “Hurricane Michael caused significant devastation to communities and families throughout Middle and Southwest Georgia,” said Congressman Bishop. “This new major disaster declaration paves the way for individual assistance to be provided to those families who have had their lives upended by the hurricane. It also provides communities with resources to remove debris and restore infrastructure and services. The road to recovery will be long but this is an important early to step to ensure access to the resources needed to rebuild.” The federal declaration specifically includes FEMA Individual Assistance for Baker, Decatur, Dougherty, Early, Miller, Seminole counties. FEMA’s Individual Assistance program provides federal resources for impacted individuals and households, including financial assistance for temporary housing, home-repair, and damage to essential household items. Additionally, this assistance covers disaster-related childcare, medical, and essential vehicle expenses. The declaration also provides FEMA Public Assistance for Baker, Calhoun, Crisp, Decatur, Dooly, Dougherty, Early, Grady, Lee, Macon, Miller, Mitchell, Seminole, Sumter, Terrell, and Worth counties. FEMA’s Public Assistance program provides resources for emergency work and the repair or replacement of disaster-damaged facilities. Finally, the declaration provides statewide eligibility for FEMA’s hazard mitigation program, which provides grants for actions taken to prevent or reduce long-term risk to life and property from natural hazards. Additional designations may be forthcoming. Up-to-date information on FEMA eligibility can be found here.
10.11.2018	ALBANY, GA – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) welcomed the Federal Emergency Declaration issued by the President for counties in Middle and Southwest Georgia struck by Hurricane Michael on October 10, 2018. The declaration opens up eligibility for federal disaster assistance from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) for all 29 counties in Georgia’s 2nd Congressional District. The declaration provides for assistance for debris removal and emergency protective measures (Categories A and B), including direct federal assistance at 75% federal funding under the Public Assistance Program, for Baker, Calhoun, Crisp, Decatur, Dooly, Dougherty, Early, Grady, Lee, Macon, Miller, Mitchell, Seminole, Sumter, and Terrell counties. It also provides for assistance for emergency protective measures (Category B), limited to direct federal assistance will be provided at 75 percent Federal funding under the Public Assistance program, for Bibb, Chattahoochee, Clay, Crawford, Marion, Muscogee, Peach, Quitman, Randolph, Schley, Stewart, Talbot, Taylor, and Webster counties. “Hurricane Michael caused catastrophic damage throughout Middle and Southwest Georgia,” said Congressman Bishop. “This emergency declaration will open up desperately needed resources to help communities provide basic services to their citizenry through FEMA’s Public Assistance program. Although the hurricane has passed, power is out, roadways are littered with debris, and there remain significant dangers to overcome. Further assistance will be needed, but this declaration will allow communities to take vital initial steps toward recovery.” Additional declarations, including for FEMA’s Individual Assistance program, may be forthcoming. Information on FEMA’s Public Assistance program can be found here. Up-to-date information on FEMA eligibility can be found here.
10.10.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Late yesterday, all sixteen Members of the Georgia Congressional Delegation sent a letter to President Donald Trump requesting expedited emergency resources to aid counties in Georgia expected to be impacted by Hurricane Michael. Yesterday, based on the latest forecast for Hurricane Michael and acting on a recommendation from Georgia Emergency Management and Homeland Security Agency (GEMA/HS) officials, Georgia Governor Nathan Deal issued an emergency declaration for 92 Georgia counties, making all state resources available to local governments and entities within the impacted area of the hurricane. The Georgia Congressional Delegation wrote: “We write in full support of Governor Nathan Deal’s request for an emergency declaration for the state of Georgia in anticipation of Hurricane Michael. As the current projections indicate, this major hurricane will significantly impact Georgia communities, and we urge you to approve requests to ensure that full federal resources are made available for counties currently under the declaration and those that may be determined to be in need of emergency federal assistance in the coming days.” Hurricane Michael was upgraded this morning to a Category 4 storm. Below is the full text of the letter: --- October 9, 2018 President Donald J. Trump The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: We write in full support of Governor Nathan Deal’s request for an emergency declaration for the state of Georgia in anticipation of Hurricane Michael. As the current projections indicate, this major hurricane will significantly impact Georgia communities, and we urge you to approve requests to ensure that full federal resources are made available for counties currently under the declaration and those that may be determined to be in need of emergency federal assistance in the coming days. Hurricane Michael has been classified as a Category 3 hurricane and will cause incredible devastation to portions of the Gulf Coast of the United States. Given the potential catastrophic impact that this hurricane may have on Georgia, the state and federal government must work together in order to help reduce the potential loss of life and destruction of property. As we recently witnessed with Hurricane Florence in North Carolina and South Carolina, preparation and up-front resources are paramount in mitigating the impacts of the storm and providing quick response in its aftermath. We thank you for your support and ask for your continued support and assistance in providing the resources necessary to ensure the safety of Georgians. Sincerely, Senator Johnny Isakson Senator David Perdue Representative Earl L. ‘Buddy’ Carter Representative Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. Representative A. Drew Ferguson, IV DMD Representative Henry C. “Hank” Johnson, Jr. Representative John Lewis Representative Karen Handel Representative Rob Woodall Representative Austin Scott Representative Doug Collins Representative Jody Hice Representative Barry Loudermilk Representative Rick W. Allen Representative David Scott Representative Tom Graves
09.26.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement regarding the passage of the conference report for the second FY19 “minibus” government funding package and continuing resolution (H.R. 6157). A minibus bill is a package of appropriations measures and provides funding for a number of, but not all, government departments, programs, and agencies, while a continuing resolution provides continued funding at current levels for agencies not otherwise covered by a minibus or individual appropriations measure. The minibus conference report passed today includes the Defense, Labor and Health and Human Services, and Education FY19 Appropriations Acts, and provides these underlying departments and agencies with full FY19 funding. The previous minibus bill included the Energy and Water, Legislative Branch, and Military Construction and Veterans Affairs FY19 Appropriations Acts. The continuing resolution portion of today’s bill provides agencies not otherwise covered by a minibus with funding at current levels through December 7, 2018. Today’s bill was passed by the full U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 361 to 61. Last week, the bill was passed by the U.S. Senate by a vote of 93 to 7. Department of Defense “I am encouraged that this appropriations bill will provide timely funding for our armed forces, as well as our Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education. “The Department of Defense portion of this bill includes $674.4 billion, which is $19.8 billion above FY 2018’s enacted level. This figure includes $67.9 billion for Overseas Contingency Operations funding. The bill includes a 2.6% pay raise for our servicemembers, the largest in nearly a decade. The bill also increases the end strength of our military forces, including active duty, reserve, and National Guard forces. Furthermore, this legislation prohibits any funds from being utilized for another round of potentially debilitating base closures (BRAC). I am also pleased that this legislation invests in a variety of research and development programs, and includes a number of specific investments in science programs at Historically Black Colleges & Universities. “Additionally, this measure improves our military readiness by investing in numerous programs to ensure our military is the strongest, best trained, best equipped and best prepared fighting force in the world. The bill invests in defense health initiatives that make certain our servicemembers and their families receive top-quality care, and invests in quality of life programs to better enhance the lives of both servicemembers and their families. “I am also pleased to report that the Defense title of this bill includes provisions I spearheaded to address the reports of potential lead exposure at on-base housing. These provisions direct the Government Accountability Office to initiate an investigation of potential toxic lead paint exposure impacting servicemembers and their families living in on-base housing. Additionally, the language requires the Secretary of Defense to provide risk assessments and blood testing for all Tricare beneficiary’s during their 12-month and 24-month wellness checks or annual physical examinations. “However, I was discouraged to see that the House of Representatives’ position on the E-8 Joint Surveillance Target Attack System (JSTARS) recapitalization was not upheld as a part of this conference agreement. I remain committed to using my oversight capacity to ensure that the capability provided by JSTARS is maintained for our ground forces as the Air Force finalizes and puts into service its replacement at Robins Air Force Base. I also take solace on the fact that the bill requires the Air Force Secretary to report to Congress with a plan, strategy, costs and a gap assessment of the Advanced Battle Management System to be housed at Robins Air Force Base. Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education “This minibus legislation also includes, $90.5 billion for the Department of Health and Human Services, $71.5 billion for the Department of Education, and $12.1 billion for the Department of Labor. “It includes $7.9 billion in funding for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, $2.3 billion more than initially requested by the administration, as well as the $39.1 billion for the National Institutes of Health, which drives much needed health research into cancer, Alzheimer’s disease, cardiovascular disease, and many other conditions. “The bill also includes language directing the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services to submit a family reunification plan to Congress and provides funding for trauma counseling services for separated children. Importantly, it drops language originally included in the House-passed bill that would have overridden the Flores settlement currently limiting the time migrant children may be detained. “As Co-Chair of the Friends of Job Corps Congressional Caucus, I am pleased that the bill provides $1.7 billion for Job Corps, which provides its young participants with the skills needed to learn a career, earn a high school diploma or GED, and find and keep a good job. “I am also pleased the minibus includes $1.4 billion in Impact Aid grants to assist school districts with impacted tax bases due to the property tax status of military and other federal installations. Additionally, the $10.1 billion provided by the bill to the Head Start program will help ensure young children are provided comprehensive education and enrichment services during their critical developmental years. “Ultimately, this minibus legislation takes a number of positive steps to shore up our military and provides funding for an assortment of necessary programs and services for the American people. I urge the President to quickly sign this minibus and CR into law to avoid a costly and wasteful government shutdown.”
09.26.2018	ALBANY, GA – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) is pleased to announce that the Federal Transit Administration has awarded the City of Albany $4.25 million in competitive grant funding through the agency’s Bus & Bus Facilities Infrastructure Investment Program. This grant award will fund six new buses and help support the construction of the new Albany Transit Center. “I am pleased that the Federal Transit Administration has recognized the importance and value of investing in a modern public transportation system for the people of Albany, GA and the surrounding area,” said Congressman Bishop. “These funds will go a long way toward affordably connecting residents to jobs, stores, places of worship, and all that Albany has to offer, while enhancing public safety and convenience in the process.” The Federal Transit Administration, housed under the U.S. Department of Transportation, is the primary agency supporting state and local public transit systems, including buses, subways, and light and commuter rail. The Bus & Bus Facilities Infrastructure Investment Program provides federal resources to states and localities to replace, rehabilitate, and purchase buses and related equipment. This set of competitively chosen awards included 107 projects in 50 states and territories and totaled $366.2 million in grant funding. Additional information on this set of Bus & Bus Facilities awards can be found here.
09.20.2018	ALBANY, GA – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) is pleased to announce that the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) has awarded more than $1 million in grant funding to five health centers across Georgia’s Second Congressional District through HHS’s Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA). “These funds will be used to ensure all members of our community have access to essential healthcare services,” said Congressman Bishop. “Our local health centers continue to serve those with great geographic and economic need. This funding will continue to enhance the availability of quality, affordable, and accessible healthcare in multiple health centers throughout Georgia’s Second Congressional District.” The award recipients include: Albany Area Primary Health Care, Inc. (Albany, GA): $359,500 CareConnect Health, Inc. (Richland, GA): $285,000 First Choice Primary Care, Inc. (Macon, GA): $285,000 Primary Care of Southwest Georgia, Inc. (Blakely, GA): $284,998 Valley Healthcare System, Inc. (Columbus, GA): $209,980 HRSA is the main federal agency dedicated to improving health care for people who are geographically isolated and economically or medically vulnerable. Today’s grant funding was awarded through HRSA’s Health Center Cluster Grant Program, which is a competitive grant program that supports institutions dedicated to improving healthcare to underserved communities throughout the United States. These competitive grants will be used to improve patient access to quality services, practitioners, and treatments. Additional information on HRSA can be found here.
09.17.2018	ALBANY, GA – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) is pleased to announce that 12 communities within the 2nd Congressional District of Georgia have been awarded a total of nearly $9,000,000 in Community Development Block Grant Program (CDBG) grants. The CDBG grants were awarded by Georgia Governor Nathan Deal using federal funding provided by the U.S Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). The grants will be used to improve infrastructure and revitalize neighborhoods. “The Community Development Block Grant Program is a vital program for our cities and towns that leverages state expertise with federal dollars,” said Congressman Bishop. “I thank Governor Deal and the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development for their commitment to communities in Middle and Southwest Georgia. This funding will be used to improve infrastructure and implement revitalization projects that are necessary for our communities’ continued development and growth.” The communities that received funding include: City of Blakely: $1,000,000 for multi activity programs City of Colquitt: $625,716 for neighborhood revitalization Crawford County: $367,117 for water improvements City of Cuthbert: $750,000 for sewer improvements Decatur County: $538,301 for drainage and street improvements Grady County: $685,461 for drainage and street improvements Lee County: $436,457 for water improvements Marion County: $260,000 street improvements Peach County: $750,000 for the health center Randolph County: $306,725 for drainage and street improvements City of Richland: $750,000 sewer improvements City of Roberta: $750,000 for sewer improvements Stewart County: $750,000 for drainage and street improvements Sumter County: $750,000 for neighborhood revitalization The Community Development Block Grant Program provides states with federal funding from the U.S Department of Housing and Development. The grants are administered through Georgia’s Department of Community Affairs (DCA), which works to support local government assistance, affordable housing, and economic development. Created in 1977, DCA works with local communities to foster success for Georgia families and businesses.
09.14.2018	CONGRESSMAN BISHOP STATEMENT ON HISPANIC HERITAGE MONTH WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement in recognition of Hispanic Heritage Month, which runs from September 15 to October 15. Hispanic Heritage Month is dedicated to celebrating individuals with roots that trace back to Spain, Mexico, and the Spanish-speaking nations in Central America, South America, and the Caribbean and recognizing the positive contributions that they have made to American culture and society. “Tomorrow marks the beginning of Hispanic Heritage Month, a time to honor the lasting and positive impact that individuals of Hispanic and Latino heritage have had on America. “Hispanics and Latinos are parts of the fabrics that are woven into America’s colorful and unique tapestry. As one of the fastest growing ethnic groups in the nation, people of Hispanic and Latino ancestry serve in our communities as teachers, doctors, farmers, business owners, elected officials, service members in our Armed Forces, and in so many other ways. Moreover, their impeccable influence on music and art is evident in both our culture and our society. “As I have said before, our nation is one of democratic ideals and noble values, and we must continue to show the world that we have an open-minded and inclusive culture that encourages everyone to reach his or her fullest potential. “As we celebrate Hispanic Heritage Month, let us look forward to working together to keep the American dream in reach for all those who seek it because there is beauty and strength in diversity and, when interlaced, these elements are what make our nation great.” LA DECLARACIÓN DE CONGRESISTA SANFORD D. BISHOP, JR POR EL MES DE HERENCIA HISPANA WASHINGTON, DC – Hoy, Congresista Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) publico’ la siguiente declaración en reconocimiento del mes de herencia hispana, que dura del 15 de septiembre al 15 de octubre. El mes de herencia hispana está dedicada a personas con raíces que originaron en España, México y las naciones en América de central, América del sur, y el Caribe, y reconoce las contribuciones positivas que han hechos tomados a la cultura y la sociedad de América. “Mañana celebraremos el principio del mes de herencia hispana, un tiempo honrar los impacto duradero y positivo que personas de herencia hispano y latino han hecho a América. “Hispanos y latinos son partes de las telas que están entrelazadas en el tapiz único y colorido de América. Como uno de los grupos étnico creciente más rápido en la nación, personas con ascendencia de hispano y latino sirven en nuestras comunidades como profesores, doctores, agricultores, empresarios, autoridades electas, soldados en nuestras fuerzas armadas, y en tantas otras maneras. Además, su influencia impecable en música y arte es evidente en los dos nuestra cultura y nuestra sociedad. “Como he dicho antes, nuestra nación es una de ídolos democráticos y valores nobles y tenemos que continuar a mostrar el mundo que tenemos una cultura que esta de mentalidad de abierta e inclusivo y que anima todos alcanzar sus potenciales todos. “Mientras celebramos el mes de herencia hispano, déjanos estar deseando a trabajando juntos guardar el sueño americano disponible para todos aquellos buscarlo porque hay belleza y fuerza en diversidad y, cuando están entrelazados, estos elementos son que lo hacen nuestra nación gran.” ###
09.13.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement regarding the passage of the conference report for the first FY19 “minibus” government funding package (H.R. 5895). A minibus bill is a package of appropriations measures and provides funding for a number of, but not all, government departments, programs, and agencies. The minibus conference report passed today includes the Energy and Water, Legislative Branch, and Military Construction and Veterans Affairs (VA) FY19 Appropriations Acts. This funding package was passed by the full U.S. House of Representatives in a vote of 377 to 20 and by the U.S. Senate in a vote of 92 to 5. “The ‘minibus’ funding package, which includes the Energy and Water, Legislative Branch, and Military Construction and Veterans Affairs FY19 Appropriations Bills, has come through the conference committee process much improved, and I am pleased that we are considering this bill in advance of the September 30, 2018 deadline. Although not perfect, this legislation supports a number of the nation’s most important needs. It provides robust funding for our military installations and veterans programs, and includes strong funding for our country’s water infrastructure. “The Military Construction portion of this minibus provides a total of $11.3 billion in FY19 funding and takes steps to improve military family housing, military medical facilities, Department of Defense education facilities, and many National Guard and Reserve facilities. This funding will enhance the readiness of our military and provide for much improved infrastructure for our service members and their families. The legislation also includes report language I spearheaded that requires the Department of Defense to provide detailed reports on what steps each service is taking to address toxic lead paint exposure in on-base housing. “The VA portion of the minibus provides a total of $197.2 billion in FY19 resources to ensure the 20 million veterans that the VA serves receive top quality care. As a part of this total, $76 billion is provided as advance FY20 appropriations. Advance appropriations are provided as a contingency to ensure the VA continues to have funding should Congress not complete full FY20 appropriations by the end of the upcoming fiscal year. The VA funding included in the minibus provides for medical services, support, and facilities, and ensures that our veterans have continued, full access to their medical care needs. This bill allocates funding for VA medical care, construction of many major and minor VA facilities, and implementation of the VA’s new electronic health record system. Additional key measures in this bill provide for increased funding for mental health care and suicide prevention, as well as funding to address the opioid epidemic. “The minibus also provides funding for the VA Mission Act. Although I am encouraged that this bill will provide adequate funding for community care, caregiver support, and other key medical services utilized by our veterans, I am disappointed that the VA Mission Act programs were not supported by long-term mandatory funding mechanisms. I am concerned that this lack of guaranteed future funding could put veteran care at risk. Further, the funding mechanism used for the VA Mission Act violates the understood budget agreement, meaning that we will have to reallocate funding from many key domestic programs that ensure quality education and rural development. “The Energy and Water division of the minibus funding package provides for $44.6 billion in FY19 funding for the Army Corps of Engineers, Department of the Interior, and Department of Energy. The legislation provides funding to bolster our nation’s energy infrastructure against cyber and physical attacks, increases funding for renewable and fossil fuel research, and maintains current law prohibiting the Corps of Engineers from requiring permits for certain agricultural practices. “Finally, the Legislative Branch section is allocated $4.84 billion for FY19, which funds operations in the U.S. House of Representatives, the U.S. Senate, the U.S. Capitol Police, the Library of Congress, and the Government Accountability Office. Included is almost $9 million in dedicated funding for Members of Congress to provide stipends to interns, which will allow for greater diversity and accessibility for our nation’s future leaders to participate in the lawmaking process.”
09.13.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) secured House passage of a number of Georgia focused provisions within the Conference Report for America’s Water Infrastructure Act (S.3021). The Conference Report for America's Water Infrastructure Act passed the full U.S. House of Representatives by voice vote. Final consideration by the U.S. Senate remains pending. The Conference Report for America’s Water Infrastructure Act includes language transferring Earle May Recreational Area from the Army Corps of Engineers to the City of Bainbridge, as well as language authorizing a $732 million expansion of Savannah Harbor. The Conference Report also directs the Army Corps of Engineers to expeditiously carry out any authorized project for flood risk management or hurricane or storm damage risk reduction in Georgia, as well as many other at-risk states and territories. This agreement also provides $4.4 billion in federal financing for states and utilities to enhance drinking water infrastructure, and authorizes improvements to other waste water and storm water infrastructure programs. “America’s Water Infrastructure Act is vital legislation that supports the safety and efficiency of our nation’s water systems, including drinking water, flood control, waste water management, and even port maintenance and expansion,” said Congressman Bishop. “I am pleased that this Conference Report includes a number of items of importance for Georgia, including the transfer of the Earle May Recreational Area to the City of Bainbridge, which will allow for the City to more efficiently manage and utilize this treasure.” The Earle May Recreational Area is a destination for people from across the Southeast for its exceptional beauty and the recreational opportunities offered by the Flint River. This transfer of land will allow for the City of Bainbridge to better manage and develop this unique natural attraction.
09.13.2018	COLUMBUS GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), a senior member of the U.S. House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans Affairs (MILCON/VA) and Co-Chair of the Congressional Military Family Caucus, released the following statement praising the U.S. Department of Veteran Affairs’ (VA) contracting announcement for a new Community Based Outpatient Clinic (CBOC) to be located in Columbus, Georgia. “I am extremely pleased that the VA has announced the award of a contract for the new Columbus Community Based Outpatient Clinic to be located at 2357 Warm Springs Road, Columbus, Georgia, 31904. Construction of this clinic has been a major priority of mine, and I worked diligently with the local chamber of commerce and with local government officials to ensure the VA placed this clinic in an area accessible to the over 30,000 veterans in the Chattahoochee Valley area. It is imperative that these veterans receive the highest quality of care and services and as close to home as possible.” “However, our task is not yet finished. We will provide continued oversight of the process from the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans Affairs (MILCON/VA). We will work to ensure that construction begins on time this winter and that the estimated completion date remains the spring of 2021. We have a duty to the brave men and women that have sacrificed so much for our nation. Completing this new Community Based Outpatient Clinic is a step in the right direction and will make it easier for local veterans to get the care they need and deserve.”
09.11.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement today to reflect on the 17th anniversary of the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001: “The tragic impacts of September 11, 2001 resonate to this day. Our lives were forever changed. A battle that seemed so far away was suddenly at our doorsteps. “However, on that day, the American people came together. We must remember this resilience and the dedication we showed to our fellow Americans during that most trying of times. We must also remember and thank those who made the ultimate sacrifice, our heroic first-responders, our brave service men and women, and the families whose lives were forever changed by the loss of loved ones. “May we always remember their sacrifice, and may God continue to bless the United States of America.”
09.06.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) is pleased to announce that the Rural Development agency of the U.S. Department of Agriculture has approved a $25,000 grant and $40,200 loan for Baker County to purchase two new vehicles for the Baker County Sheriff’s Office and the Baker County Emergency Management Agency. “USDA Rural Development is a vital source of support for rural communities, and the funding provided to Baker County is already allowing the county to augment its safety and emergency services for the benefit of its citizens,” said Congressman Bishop. “I commend USDA for its continued commitment to rural communities, and I will continue to work with Baker County and the rest of Middle and Southwest Georgia to enhance the region.” These grants and loans were awarded as part of the USDA Rural Community Facilities Direct Loan and Grant Program, which provides funding to develop essential community facilities, including vehicles, in rural areas. This program is administered by USDA’s Rural Development agency, which provides both technical assistance and loans, grants, and loan guarantees to support services and infrastructure in rural America. This support is used to help communities with housing, economic development, health care, first responder services and equipment, as well as water, electric, and communications infrastructure. Additional information on USDA’s Community Facilities Direct Loan and Grant Program can be found here.
09.06.2018	COLUMBUS, GA – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) and Congressman Drew Ferguson (GA-03) today introduced House Resolution 6719 to designate a United State Post Office in Columbus, Georgia as the Richard W. Williams Chapter of the Triple Nickles (555th P.I.A.) Post Office. The post office, located at 120 12th Street Lobby, Columbus, Georgia, will be renamed to honor the U.S. Army’s first African-American parachute unit, the 555th “Triple Nickles” Parachute Infantry Battalion, based out of Fort Benning during World War II. Captain Richard W. Williams served as the company’s commander, and the Richard W. Williams Chapter of the Triple Nickles 555th Parachute Infantry Association (P.I.A.) has 61 veteran members from the Columbus area. “I am honored to join my colleague Drew Fergusson in introducing this legislation on behalf of these brave men who trained right here at Fort Benning, Georgia,” said Congressman Bishop. “Not only did these men volunteer for one of the most elite units, but they also persevered over racial discrimination to serve their country. As a Georgian, I am honored to be able to introduce this legislation on behalf of these African-American pioneers and exceptionally brave men.” “The 555th Parachute Infantry Battalion, known as the Triple Nickles, was known both for its bravery in answering the call to be a part of an airborne unit and for being pioneers on behalf of many African-Americans seeking to serve in these and similar units,” said Congressman Bishop. “The men that joined the ranks of the Triple Nickles defended the nation against Japanese balloon bombs, and many of them later deployed to Korea as part of a new unit, the 2nd Ranger Company. The 2nd Ranger Company became the first and only all-black Ranger unit in the history of the United States Army and faced some of the most grueling combat in Korea.” “Under Captain Richard W. Williams’s leadership, the 555th Triple Nickles Parachute Infantry Battalion bravely defended our nation during World War II,” said Congressman Ferguson. “It is an honor to be a part of the effort to honor their legacy, and I appreciate Congressman Bishop’s leadership to commemorate the Triple Nickles’ service and sacrifice.” Senators David Perdue (R-GA) and Johnny Isakson (R-GA) previously introduced an identical version of the legislation in the U.S. Senate. Text of Congressman Bishop and Congressman Ferguson’s legislation can be found here.
09.06.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) and Congressman Ben Ray Luján (NM-03) co-led a letter, sent yesterday, from 53 Members of Congress to the Farm Bill conferees in support of the Farming Opportunities Training and Outreach Program. This proposed program, which is currently included in the Senate version of the Farm Bill, would merge the authorizations of the Beginning Farmer and Ranchers Development Program (BFRDP) and the Outreach and Assistance for Socially Disadvantaged Farmers and Ranchers and Veteran Farmers and Ranchers (OASDVFR). As the Ranking Member of the U.S. House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, Congressman Bishop has long supported beginning, socially disadvantaged, and veteran farmers. The average age of farmers and producers in the U.S. is 60 years of age. The proposed Farming Opportunities Training and Outreach Program will ensure the next generation of farmers, and anyone seeking a career in agriculture, has the resources they need to be successful. The Members wrote in their letter: As Members of Congress with numerous minority, veteran, and beginning farmers in our districts, we support the new authority in Section 12301 of the Senate bill as a prudent, efficient approach to merge the authorization of the Beginning Farmer and Ranchers Development Program (BFRDP) and the Outreach and Assistance for Socially Disadvantaged Farmers and Ranchers and Veteran Farmers and Ranchers (OASDVFR). The BFRDP and the OASDVFR are complementary programs, and merging their authorities under the Farming Opportunities Training and Outreach Program will streamline program delivery. Additionally, the proposed language authorizes $50 million annually through 2023 for the combined program. This funding is vital for the long-term investment in our farms and the farmers and ranchers dedicated to their care and production. The Members continued in the letter: USDA’s new authorities better link two deeply complementary programs that together provide an effective mix of education and training to new entry producers, and direct technical assistance to historically underserved producers. These programs support new entry and historically underserved producers through the community-based organizations, tribes and educational institutions best equipped to reach and serve these communities. The letter was cosigned by Representatives Fortenberry (R-NE), Sewell (D-AL), Carbajal (D-CA), Costello (R-PA), Bass (D-CA), Pearce (R-NM), Blumenauer (D-OR), Moore (D-WI), Veasey (D-TX), Costa (D-CA), Sean Maloney (D-NY), Gonzalez (D-TX), DeLauro (D-CT), Kaptur (D-OH), Ryan (D-OH), Rush (D-IL), Pingree (D-ME), Soto (D-FL), Waters (D-CA), Walz (D-MN), Neal (D-MA), Espaillat (D-NY), Panetta (D-CA), McCollum (D-MN), Raskin (D-MD), Pocan (D-WI), Napolitano (D-CA), Welch (D-VT), Tsongas (D-MA), Takano (D-CA), Moulton (D-MA), Lee (D-CA), Price (D-NC), Jayapal (D-WA), Sablan (D-MP), Plaskett (D-VI), Thompson (D-MS), Scott (D-GA), Butterfield (D-NC), Hanabusa (D-HI), McEachin (D-VA), Kilmer (D-WA), Rosen (D-NV), Garamendi (D-CA), Kind (D-WI), Clark (D-MA), Smith (D-WA), Richmond (D-LA), Ellison (D-MN), Evans (D-PA), and Courtney (D-CT). Text of the letter can be found here. A list of organizations supporting the Farming Opportunities Training and Outreach Program can be found here. -------------- September 5, 2018 Dear Chairman Conaway and Ranking Member Peterson: As the 2018 Farm Bill Conference Committee undertakes its duty to ensure that all of our nation’s farmers and ranchers are fully equipped for the increasing challenges of food production and safety, risk management, conservation, marketing, and trade, we urge you to invest in the future of agriculture as the key economic engine for rural communities. To ensure a sustainable future for our agricultural economy and food system, we need more farmers and ranchers throughout our nation. The growing populations of minority, tribal, veteran, and beginning farmers and ranchers stand ready to catalyze this agricultural future. As Members of Congress with numerous minority, veteran, and beginning farmers in our districts, we support the new authority in Section 12301 of the Senate bill as a prudent, efficient approach to merge the authorization of the Beginning Farmer and Ranchers Development Program (BFRDP) and the Outreach and Assistance for Socially Disadvantaged Farmers and Ranchers and Veteran Farmers and Ranchers (OASDVFR). We urge the committee to adopt Section 12301 of the Senate bill as a substitute to Sections 7507 and 11201 of the House Bill. While we are pleased that both the House- and Senate-passed bills include mandatory funding for these programs, only the Senate-passed Farm Bill does so in a way that provides certainty by establishing permanent baseline funding. Section 12301 of the Senate-passed bill combines the two programs into a new Farming Opportunities Training and Outreach Program with permanent authority funding of $50 million per year, split evenly between the two program components. Adoption of this provision in the final Farm Bill package would also provide agency authority to streamline program delivery, improve responsiveness to stakeholders and emerging industry trends, and, most importantly, assure long-term investment to ensure that these farmers and ranchers have access to the resources they need to build successful and viable farms. BFRDP is the only program specifically dedicated to training the next generation of producers. OASDVFR has since 1990 been USDA’s primary tool to assure our nation’s historically underserved producers gain access to USDA’s credit, commodity, conservation, and other programs and services. It was expanded in 2014 to also serve military veterans. With additional demand for program resources from these growing sectors of agriculture and with our overall farm population continuing to age, Congress should scale up, not cut back on, support for our nation’s most underserved communities. USDA’s new authorities better link two deeply complementary programs that together provide an effective mix of education and training to new entry producers, and direct technical assistance to historically underserved producers. These programs support new entry and historically underserved producers through the community-based organizations, tribes and educational institutions best equipped to reach and serve these communities. USDA’s new authorities better connect both programs to relevant advisory committees based in the Office of Advocacy and Outreach and assure better operation of the programs. Permanent and sufficient funding for these critical programs represents a strategic investment in the diverse new generation of farmers and ranchers best positioned to expand economic development opportunities in rural, urban, and tribal communities, advance intergenerational land transfer, and promote familial and community wealth in thousands of rural and urban communities that would most benefit. We look forward to working with conference committee to ensure these important changes are included in the final bill. Sincerely, __________________________ ___________________________ Ben Ray Luján Sanford Bishop Member of Congress Member of Congress
09.05.2018	FORT VALLEY, GA – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) is pleased to announce that Fort Valley State University in Fort Valley, GA has been awarded a $49,526 grant from the National Science Foundation (NSF). The award will support a workshop project to connect engineering and science students from underrepresented populations to currently funded NSF Research Centers. This project, entitled Broadening Participation in Engineering through Center-based Research, will be carried out under the direction of Felicia Jefferson, Assistant Professor in the Biology Department at Fort Valley State University. The award has an official start date of September 1, 2018. The project will provide for a workshop to connect underrepresented and women students with socially relevant, convergent research to build capacity for competitive fellowship applications. The workshop incorporates introductions to researchers, professional development, and training in scientific writing. “As an 1890 Public Land Grant University, Fort Valley State has long been dedicated to providing a science and research focused education to underserved audiences, and this grant for the National Science Foundation enhances that mission,” said Congressman Bishop. “The workshop supported by this grant will connect students directly with researchers, providing students with the opportunity to apply their education to new and ongoing research opportunities.” Originally chartered in 1895, Fort Valley State University is located in Peach County, GA. As a public historically black college or university (HBCU), Fort Valley has highly commended biology and chemistry departments which send more students of African descent to medical and dental schools than any other state school in Georgia. Established by Congress in 1950, NSF provides grants, contracts and cooperative agreements to fund research and education in the science and engineering fields. NSF funding accounts for around 20% of federal funding to academic institutions. More information on this NSF award can be found here.
09.05.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Last week, Ranking Member Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro (CT-03), Congresswoman Chellie Pingree (ME-01), and Congressman Mark Pocan (WI-02), the four democratic members of the U.S. House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, sent a letter to Secretary Perdue at the Department of Agriculture (USDA) to express their concerns with the agency’s proposal to relocate the Economic Research Service (ERS) and the National Institute of Food and Agriculture (NIFA) outside of Washington, D.C. On August 9, 2018, USDA suddenly announced plans to relocate ERS and NIFA, along with most employees, outside of Washington by the end of 2019. USDA claims that the move would improve recruitment and retention, increase stakeholder engagement, and save taxpayer dollars. However, USDA has not provided any information or data to Congress, agency employees, and the public to support these claims. The appropriators, whose subcommittee holds oversight and funding authority over USDA, called on USDA to provide employee hiring data for ERS and NIFA for the last 5 years, data on anticipated staff loss if ERS and NIFA relocate, estimated costs associated with relocation, data on anticipated costs savings, a detailed timeline for the relocation, and the rationale for why ERS and NIFA, as opposed to other USDA agencies, need to move closer to stakeholders. The Members wrote in their letter: “We care deeply about USDA’s research agencies and their continued success. Farmers and consumers in our districts benefit daily from the work of ERS and NIFA, which have a worldwide reputation for identifying our most pressing agricultural issues and advancing innovative solutions to address those issues.” They continued: “It worries us to hear reports that USDA’s reorganization announcement has jeopardized morale not only in the two affected agencies, but also across the Department as employees wonder whether other agencies will also be relocated. We hope that you will seek input from USDA employees as you consider future Department decisions.” The full letter can be found here and below. ---------------- August 30, 2018 The Honorable Sonny Perdue Secretary U.S. Department of Agriculture 1400 Independence Avenue, S.W. Washington, D.C. 20250 Dear Secretary Perdue: As members of the House Committee on Appropriations’ Subcommittee on Agriculture Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies, we write to express our concerns about the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) recent reorganization proposal, which would move the Economic Research Service (ERS) and the National Institute of Food and Agriculture (NIFA) outside of Washington, D.C. We care deeply about USDA’s research agencies and their continued success. Farmers and consumers in our districts benefit daily from the work of ERS and NIFA, which have a worldwide reputation for identifying our most pressing agricultural issues and advancing innovative solutions to address those issues. It is our understanding that USDA cited three reasons for its proposal to move ERS and NIFA outside of Washington, DC: difficulty with employee recruitment, the need to move resources closer to stakeholders, and savings associated with employment costs and rent. We respectfully ask that you provide data and analysis to justify each of these reasons, including: Employee hiring data for ERS and NIFA for the last 5 years, including evidence that USDA has had difficulty recruiting ERS and NIFA staff; Data on anticipated staff loss if ERS and NIFA relocate; Estimated costs associated with relocation assistance; Data on anticipated cost savings related to rent and locality pay; A detailed timeline for the proposed relocation; and The rationale for why ERS and NIFA, as opposed to other USDA agencies, need to move closer to stakeholders. Lastly, we are concerned that ERS and NIFA employees were not given the opportunity to provide input on this significant decision. It worries us to hear reports that USDA’s reorganization announcement has jeopardized morale not only in the two affected agencies, but also across the Department as employees wonder whether other agencies will also be relocated. We hope that you will seek input from USDA employees as you consider future Department decisions. We welcome the opportunity to discuss USDA’s reorganization plan with you. Thank you for your attention, and we look forward to your response. Sincerely, Sanford D. Bishop Jr. Member of Congress Rosa DeLauro Member of Congress Chellie Pingree Member of Congress Mark Pocan Member of Congress
08.31.2018	COLUMBUS, GA – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), senior member of the House Appropriations Committee and the Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veteran Affairs, as well as Co-Chair of the Military Families Caucus, released the following statement concerning his meeting today with Army officials over recent reports of potential lead exposure at Department of Defense housing units. Also in attendance were representatives from the Offices of Senator Johnny Isakson and Senator David Perdue, as well as from the Office of Congressman Drew Ferguson. “After the publication of reports concerning potential lead exposure at Department of Defense Housing units, I organized a meeting with Army leadership at Fort Benning, which occurred today, to discuss the Army’s plan to address quality of housing for servicemembers and their families. I also took this time to tour the facilities identified in recent reports. The safety and well-being of our servicemembers and military families is of paramount importance, and it is imperative that we work in a bipartisan manner to ensure military members and their families have top-quality housing. “I am encouraged by the Army’s plans to address the situation here at Fort Benning, as well as at many other installations around the country. The Army has committed to conducting testing and repairs on all homes identified as being built before 1978 and potentially having risk of toxic lead exposure. This testing will focus not only on the interior, looking for deteriorating lead paint and dust, but also test for ground and water contamination. The Army has also committed to providing me with regular updates on this situation, and I will remain steadfastly focused on this issue. “The well-being of our military families must be a top priority, and I am determined to work with the Pentagon and my colleagues in Congress to address these reports of potential lead exposure as it pertains to all of our military housing installations. Accordingly, as a senior member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, I will conduct oversight over the Department of Defense on this issue and will work to ensure Congress provides adequate resources to provide safe and high quality housing for all of our servicemembers and their families.”
08.29.2018	COLUMBUS, GA – Last night, Columbus residents tried their hand at balancing the federal budget during a deficit reduction workshop held by Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), in cooperation with the nonpartisan Concord Coalition, at the National Infantry Museum. During the event, participants were placed in the role of legislators and educated on the difficult balancing of priorities that is necessary to reduce the deficit and balance the budget. Participants were also given the chance to review current budget priorities, suggest proposals, and discuss their political and fiscal implications. "The budget picture now and into the future is daunting to say the least," said Congressman Bishop. "On June 26, the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office released its 2018 Long-Term Budget Outlook, indicating that federal debt held by the public will approach 100 percent of gross domestic product within the next 10 years. If we continue down this path, America could be spending more on debt interest payments than on national defense within five years." Congressman Bishop continued, "That is why last night’s exercise was so important. It is vital that we weigh the future impacts of our policy decisions and have an honest conversation about our nation's budgetary situation. Tonight, we examined various trade-offs Congress must consider to address the long-term solvency of the federal budget. The input I received from the local community will greatly inform my work on the House Appropriations Committee when I return to Washington next week." Congressman Bishop is a member of the Blue Dog Coalition of fiscally responsible Democrats who are working to find a responsible framework to reduce spending, pay down our national debt, and balance the budget. The Concord Coalition is a nationwide, nonpartisan organization dedicated to educating the policymakers and the public about the causes and consequences of federal budget deficits. Congressman Bishop has previously held a number of similar deficit reduction workshops across the 2nd Congressional District of Georgia, including in Albany and Macon.
08.28.2018	COLUMBUS, GA – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), senior member of the House Appropriations Committee and the Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veteran Affairs, as well as Co-Chair of the Military Families Caucus, released the following statement concerning recent reports of potential lead exposure at Department of Defense housing units: “As a senior member, and former Ranking Member, of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, I find reports of potential lead exposure in Department of Defense housing units to be deeply troubling. The safety and well-being of our military families is of the utmost importance. Our servicemembers volunteer to go into harm’s way to defend our nation around the world, and it is unfathomable that they would have to experience safety concerns while in the safety of their home installations. Military installations, including Fort Benning in my district, are vital for the readiness of our armed forces, and the men and women that call Fort Benning home should be afforded top-quality housing.” “I will, in my position on the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Subcommittee on Appropriations, be working to immediately address these reports of potential lead exposure. I have requested and scheduled a meeting with the Pentagon officials responsible for these matters, to be held this Friday. During this meeting, I will tour the facilities identified and discuss the Army’s plan to address quality of housing for servicemembers and their families. Additionally, I am working with my colleagues in Congress to address this issue in the military construction appropriations measure currently under consideration.” “The well-being of our military families must be a top priority. I will strive to ensure that adequate funding levels are maintained, and adequate oversight is conducted, in order to provide safe and high quality housing for our servicemembers and their families.”
08.27.2018	ALBANY, GA – The U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) announced today that it will provide up to $15 million in assistance through the Tree Assistance Program (TAP), administered by the Farm Service Agency (FSA), to pecan growers impacted by 2017 weather events. Last year, Georgia was struck by a series of severe weather events. Hurricane Irma was particularly devastating, wiping out nearly a third of Georgia’s pecan crop. The assistance announced today is intended for pecan orchardists and pecan nursery tree growers and provides funding to replant or rehabilitate eligible trees. To be eligible for assistance, orchardists and nursery tree growers must have suffered tree losses in excess of 7.5 percent from Jan. 1, 2017, through Dec. 31, 2017. More information on how to qualify for TAP assistance can be found here. Additional information on USDA disaster assistance programs can be found here. Farmers can find contact information for their local USDA FSA Office here.
08.27.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement regarding the passing this past weekend of Senator John McCain (R-AZ). “Our country has lost a true patriot. Throughout his life, Senator John McCain always put God, Country, and service to others before himself and his party. He was a true hero who embodied what it meant to be patriotic, compassionate, and to stand with conviction. “My most heartfelt condolences go out to Senator McCain’s family, friends, and loved ones, and may his spirit live on through the great legacy he created.”
08.27.2018	ALBANY, GA – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) is proud to share that the Georgia Environmental Finance Authority (GEFA) has awarded loans totaling $7.1 million to five communities in Georgia’s 2nd Congressional District. The loans will finance infrastructure improvements for water, sewer, and solid waste treatment plants. “Since 1985, the Georgia Environmental Finance Authority has diligently worked to preserve and enhance Georgia’s energy and water resources,” said Congressman Bishop. “These resources will substantially benefit our Georgia communities, and I am grateful for the agency’s attention and dedication to enhancing water infrastructure in Middle and Southwest Georgia.” In a partnership between the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and GEFA, the Clean Water State Revolving Fund (CWSRF) and Drinking Water State Revolving Fund (DWSRF) combine federal funding with state and local support for projects that support health-related water supply and conservation projects, water quality improvements, wastewater treatment, as well as repairs to sewer and storm water projects. The City of Cairo in Grady County received a $2,500,000 DWSRF loan for improvements to the city’s water treatment plants, including the installation of an arsenic removal system, three high-service pumps, and a chemical feed building. The Fort Valley Utility Commission received a $1,700,000 CWSRF loan and a $700,000 DWSRF loan. The CWSRF funding will be used for the replacement of 2,000 linear feet of failing sewer mains and a new lift station, which are necessary to provide services to the new Warner Robins Welcome Center. The DWSRF funding will be used for the installation of water mains and a booster pump station. This project will provide redundancy to Fort Valley State University and extend water service to the new Warner Robins Welcome Center. The Unified Government of Georgetown-Quitman County received a $319,000 CWSRF loan and a $323,000 DWSRF loan. This CWSRF funding will be used for the installation of a pond liner, air relief valves, and a generator. The new system will allow upgrades to prevent possible groundwater contamination. The DWSRF funding will be used for the installation of a booster pump station and pressure reducing valves, and the replacement of water mains. The project will also connect the city and county water systems. The City of Bainbridge in Decatur County received a $1,055,000 CWSRF loan. This CWSRF funding will be used for the installation of new gravity sewer lines and the rehabilitation of five pump stations. The new system will address the city’s aging infrastructure and help the treatment plant to operate more efficiently. The City of Colquitt in Miller County received a $540,000 CWSRF loan. This CWSRF funding will be used for the installation of sewer mains. The new system will address the city’s aging infrastructure and reduce wastewater spills. Congress established the CWSRF in 1987, and it has provided over $65 billion in assistance for water infrastructure projects since its establishment. The DWSRF was established by Congress in 1996. Congress has appropriated the program approximately $20 billion since its establishment, supporting over 12,400 projects. GEFA has funded more than 1,500 projects and provided more than $4 billion in loans for water, solid waste, and sewer improvements since 1985. Additional information on CWSRF or DWSRF loans and how to apply can be found on GEFA’s website.
08.20.2018	ALBANY, GA – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement regarding the proposal by the election board of Randolph County, Georgia to close seven of the nine polling stations in Randolph County. Congressman Bishop represents Georgia’s 2nd Congressional District, which includes Randolph County, as well as a significant portion of Middle and Southwest Georgia. “I am outraged by the proposal to close seven of the nine polling stations in Randolph County and will do everything in my power to stop this act of voter suppression. The right to vote is fundamental to our system of government. This action would certainly work to disenfranchise voters in Randolph County, particularly African American voters. It is a disgrace to our democratic process, and it is unacceptable. I will be reaching out today to the U.S. Department of Justice and the Georgia Secretary of State to express my strong opposition to these proposed voting station closures.” A copy of the letter sent by Congressman Bishop to the U.S. Department of Justice and Georgia Secretary of State can be found here. Full text of the letter can also be found below: ----------------- August 20, 2018 The Honorable Jeff Sessions Attorney General United States Department of Justice 950 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, DC 20530 The Honorable Brian P. Kemp Georgia Secretary of State 214 State Capitol Atlanta, GA 30334 Dear Attorney General Sessions and Secretary of State Kemp: I am writing to express my strong and vehement opposition to the proposal by the Randolph County Board of Elections and Registration to close seven out of nine polling places in the county in the weeks leading up to the November elections. This outrageous proposal is discriminatory and appears to be in clear violation of the federal Voting Rights Act as well as the Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments to the United States Constitution. It should and must be immediately rejected so that the citizens of Randolph County are permitted to exercise their sacred and constitutional right to vote in a free and unfettered manner. As you may be aware, Randolph County is part of Georgia’s Second Congressional District, which I have represented in the United States Congress since 1993. The county is over 60% African-American, which is twice the percentage of the entire State of Georgia (32.2%). In fact, one of the polling places in Randolph County that is slated for closure – Cuthbert Middle School – serves a 96.7% African-American population. Randolph County is one of the poorest in the State of Georgia as well. Thirty percent of its population live in poverty and its median income is forty percent lower than the rest of the state. As a result, a higher percentage of people in Randolph County (22.3%) lack vehicles as compared to all Georgia households (6.9%). With the closure of over 75% of the polling places in Randolph County, it is clear who will have to bear the burden of reduced access to the polls. Low-income African-Americans without a car will be forced to walk three-and-a-half hours to reach the new polling places if they want to vote in person on Election Day. I also am deeply concerned that given the likelihood of high voter turnout in November, particularly due to an African-American woman gubernatorial nominee for the first time in Georgia’s history, closing polling places so close to an election is likely to create voter confusion. The polling places targeted for closure were recently used in the primaries and primary run-offs earlier this year. While I strongly support bringing the public buildings in compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act – the so-called justification that Randolph County is providing for eliminating the polling places – the constitutional right to vote should not be sacrificed. I urge you to do all that you can to ensure that all Randolph County voters have their voices heard in every election. The right to vote is sacred and must be protected regardless of one’s race, religion, gender, or creed. Randolph County’s proposal to shut down 75% of polling places must be rejected. With kind regards, I am Sincerely, Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. Member of Congress
08.16.2018	ALBANY, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) and Congresswoman Martha Roby (AL-02), Co-Chairs of the House Peanut Caucus, sent a letter to U.S. Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue urging the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) to respond to recent negative trade actions by China that threaten the U.S. peanut industry. They specifically encouraged USDA to consider the purchase of additional peanut butter through the Food and Nutrition Service programs that distribute commodities to schools, food banks, and other domestic feeding programs. They also urged USDA to consider the purchase of peanut products to be distributed through Title II Food Aid programs and under the McGovern-Dole Food for Education Program. The Chinese Finance Ministry announced on August 3, 2018 that it will increase tariffs on an additional $60 billion worth of U.S. products if the U.S. follows through with a plan to add 10 percent tariffs to $200 billion of Chinese goods by September as proposed by the Administration on August 1, 2018. For the first time, China included peanut products among items to be targeted for retaliatory tariffs. Georgia supplies nearly half of the nation’s peanuts. In 2016, Georgia peanuts had a farm gate value of more than $620 million. But like all other commodities, peanuts have faced years of declining commodity prices. The pending tariffs on peanuts will only compound the challenges the peanut industry faces. Representatives Bishop and Roby wrote: “As Co-Chairs of the House Peanut Caucus, we are writing to encourage the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) to respond to recent negative trade actions by China by considering the purchase of additional peanut butter through the Food and Nutrition Service programs that distribute commodities to schools, food banks, and other domestic feeding programs. Additionally, we request that the USDA weigh the purchase of peanut products to be distributed through Title II Food Aid programs and under the McGovern-Dole Food for Education Program. Of note, a peanut-based product has been approved for use under McGovern-Dole but has not been utilized to date.” They continued: “As strong advocates for free and fair trade around the world, we urge you to work with the U.S. Trade Representative to take whatever action necessary to help alleviate growing tensions with our trade partners.” The proposals Co-Chairs Bishop and Roby outlined in their letter are supported by the Southern Peanut Farmers Federation (SPFF), the National Peanut Buying Points Association, (NPBPA), and the American Peanut Shellers Association (APSA). This is the second time Congressman Bishop has called on Ambassador Lighthizer to take action to address Chinese tariffs. In April, Bishop sent a letter to Ambassador Lighthizer detailing the threats tariffs pose to the pecan industry, which has enjoyed recent success with lower tariff rates. The full text of the letter can be found below: -------- Dear Secretary Perdue: As Co-Chairs of the House Peanut Caucus, we are writing to encourage the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) to respond to recent negative trade actions by China by considering the purchase of additional peanut butter through the Food and Nutrition Service programs that distribute commodities to schools, food banks, and other domestic feeding programs. Additionally, we request that the USDA weigh the purchase of peanut products to be distributed through Title II Food Aid programs and under the McGovern-Dole Food for Education Program. Of note, a peanut-based product has been approved for use under McGovern-Dole but has not been utilized to date. Both U.S. industry and recipients will benefit from increased purchases of peanut-based foods under the two programs, and these requests are supported by the peanut industry. In a letter addressed to you on July 30, 2018 the Southern Peanut Farmers Federation (SPFF), the National Peanut Buying Points Association, (NPBPA), and the American Peanut Shellers Association (APSA) wrote in favor of these programs. As strong advocates for free and fair trade around the world, we urge you to work with the U.S. Trade Representative to take whatever action necessary to help alleviate growing tensions with our trade partners. As you know, the Chinese Finance Ministry recently announced it will increase tariffs on an additional $60 billion worth of U.S. products if the U.S. follows through with a plan to add 10 percent tariffs to $200 billion of Chinese goods by September as proposed by the Administration on August 1st. For the first time, China included peanut products among items to be targeted for retaliatory tariffs. American peanut farmers, like other U.S. agricultural producers, are suffering from stagnant prices, fewer new market opportunities, and slow international demand. The European Union has levied an additional tariff of 25 percent on U.S. produced peanut butter. The pending Chinese tariff could have significant consequences for the peanut industry. China has historically been an inconsistent importer of U.S. peanuts, but now they will likely be out of the U.S. peanut market for the foreseeable future. As you know, the USDA does have the authority to assist commodities impacted by current international market conditions. Under your direction, the decisive actions mentioned in the letter from these united associations can provide much needed stability to the peanut industry. We appreciate your leadership and strong commitment to America’s agriculture industry during this time of uncertainty. Sincerely, Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. Martha Roby Member of Congress Member of Congress
08.16.2018	ALBANY, GA – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) is pleased to announce that Albany Technical College in Albany, GA has been awarded $219,204 from the National Science Foundation (NSF). The award will be used to address the growing demand for skilled technicians and a diversified labor force. It will support paid internships and real-world training to educate and train students and fill high demand technical positions. This project, entitled Skilled Technical Education & Experiential Learning, will be carried out under the direction of Chase Mumford, Chair/Instructor of Electromechanical Engineering Technology at Albany Technical College. The award starts October 1, 2018. Working with industry partners, Albany Technical College aims to educate students to meet the demands of industry partners for highly skilled employees. Industry will assist faculty in placing students in internships and in evaluating student projects. Project-Based Learning and paid internships will be integrated into three engineering technology programs: 1) Civil Engineering Technology; 2) Electrical and Computer Technology (Telecommunications); and 3) Electromechanical Engineering Technology. “This grant award by the National Science Foundation will help Albany Technical College train students and create a pipeline for quality employment opportunities,” said Congressman Bishop. “Hands-on experience is vital in today’s economy and this project will provide just that to students looking to improve their skills and find good jobs. I thank both Albany Tech and the National Science Foundation for their dedication to our students and to Middle and Southwest Georgia.” Originally established in 1961, Albany Technical College is a public two-year institution dedicated to promoting self-sufficiency, economic development, and community growth and sustainability. Albany Tech is a unit of the Technical College System of Georgia and has over 3,000 full-time students and 2,500 students enrolled part-time and in seminars, continuing education, and other training programs. Established by Congress in 1950, NSF provides grants, contracts and cooperative agreements to fund research and education in the science and engineering fields. NSF funding accounts for around 20% of federal funding to academic institutions. More information on this NSF award can be found here.
08.03.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement regarding the passing on Monday of former Congressman Ron Dellums. Ron Dellums, a founding member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), previously served as the U.S. Representative from Oakland, California for 27 years from 1971 to 1998, as well as a member of the Berkeley City Council from 1967 to 1970 and Oakland’s Mayor from 2007 to 2011. “I was greatly saddened to learn of the passing of Ron Dellums, who served our nation as a dedicated public servant. He was a Marine, a social worker, a champion of civil rights here and across the world, a chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, and a founding member and past chair of the Congressional Black Caucus. “Ron fought for those who faced persecution and battled for ‘peace, justice, and humanity’ for all people. He is an inspiration for today’s leaders and my thoughts and prayers go out to Ron’s family, friends, and colleagues during this time of loss.”
08.01.2018	ALBANY, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Ranking Member of the U.S. House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, sent a letter to House and Senate leaders on the conference committee for the 2018 Farm Bill urging them to come to an agreement on the Farm Bill that provides certainty and relief to farmers, rural communities, and those who rely on our nation’s food and nutrition programs. This letter follows yesterday’s vote by the U.S. Senate to proceed to conference on the 2018 Farm Bill. A similar vote occurred in the U.S. House of Representatives on July 18. This wide-sweeping legislation seeks to reauthorize major agricultural and nutrition programs through Fiscal Year 2023. The current Farm Bill expires on September 30, 2018. Congressman Bishop wrote in the letter: “I am writing to express my support for a strong, robust farm bill that values conservation, invests in rural development, provides certainty to our farmers and ranchers, and adequately funds our food and nutrition programs.” In May, Congressman Bishop opposed the House version of the 2018 Farm Bill due to substantial concerns with the negative impact the bill would have on rural communities, farmers, seniors, and children. In today’s letter, he urged the conferees to reject a number of the provisions included in the House version of the Farm Bill and instead adopt the more reasonable Senate provisions. Congressman Bishop urged the conferees to reject the massive cuts to the Conservation Stewardship Program (CSP) that were included in the House version. Congressman Bishop wrote: “The CSP is the nation’s largest working lands conservation program that awards farmers grants to address soil health, water quality and other environmental issues on their land. The CSP’s voluntary programs allow farmers and ranchers to improve grazing conditions and improve crop yields to help them thrive and stay competitive. Strong conservation programs will ensure our farmers are prosperous for generations to come.” Rural development programs are also an important part of the Farm Bill. Congressman Bishop stressed the importance of rural development programs that continue to strengthen rural communities in middle and southwest Georgia, and nationwide, through access to broadband, infrastructure, housing, and economic development. He urged conferees to remove a House proposal that would increase electric costs for rural residents, as well as a House provision that would reduce resources for rural water and sewer infrastructure. Congressman Bishop continued in the letter: “The final bill must make rural development a priority. There is a huge disconnect between the level of economic prosperity and opportunity available in urban areas versus rural areas. Congress must make it easier for rural communities to gain access to capital for infrastructure and economic development.” Additionally, last year, the nation, and farmers in particular, were struck by one severe weather event after another. The Senate bill includes a provision to provide $18 million for 2017 blueberry and peach losses due to extreme cold. Congressman Bishop urged the conference committee to adopt this provision in the farm bill. Congressman Bishop also urged continued investment in agriculture research done by institutions of higher education, particularly at 1890 Land-Grant Universities and Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs). For our farmers, this legislation comes on the heels of several years of declining commodity prices and in the midst of an escalating trade war. This period of great uncertainty for the nation’s farmers underscores the need to pass new Farm Bill legislation before the current Farm Bill expires. Congressman Bishop also urged the conference committee to reject the House’s “so-called” reforms to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), which would dramatically harm our nation’s most vulnerable populations, including children, veterans, and senior citizens, as well as exacerbate the ongoing challenge of food deserts in many rural and urban communities. Congressman Bishop wrote: “While I agree that we need to cut fraud, waste and abuse, the drastic cuts and changes to SNAP in the House bill are unacceptable. SNAP is widely considered an efficient and successful safety net that offers desperately needed support to those in need. I strongly support the Senate’s bipartisan language that improves SNAP’s program integrity and operations, invests in pilot programs to better understand job training programs, and most importantly rejects strict work requirements that would kick deserving people, especially kids, veterans, and senior citizens, out of the program.” Congressman Bishop concluded his letter by stating: “I am confident Congress can come together and pass a comprehensive farm bill that meets the challenges our nation faces today.” Full text of Congressman Bishop’s letter can be found below: ------ August 1, 2018 The Honorable Mike Conaway Chairman House Committee on Agriculture 1301 Longworth House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 The Honorable Collin Peterson Ranking Member House Committee on Agriculture 1305 Longworth House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 The Honorable Pat Roberts Chairman Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry 328A Russell Senate Office Building Washington, DC, 20510 The Honorable Debbie Stabenow Ranking Member Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry 328A Russell Senate Office Building Washington, DC, 20510 Dear Chairmen Conaway and Roberts and Ranking Members Peterson and Stabenow: I am writing to express my support for a strong, robust farm bill that values conservation, invests in rural development, provides certainty to our farmers and ranchers, and adequately funds our food and nutrition programs. As the Ranking Member on the House Agriculture Appropriations Subcommittee, which is ultimately responsible for funding many of the programs authorized in this legislation, I understand the challenges of balancing these competing priorities. It is critical that this process garners input and support from a bipartisan coalition and produces a farm bill that can pass both chambers of Congress. Below are my priorities: Conservation: I do not support the drastic cuts to the Conservation Stewardship Program (CSP) in the House bill. The CSP is the nation’s largest working lands conservation program that awards farmers grants to address soil health, water quality and other environmental issues on their land. The CSP’s voluntary programs allow farmers and ranchers to improve grazing conditions and improve crop yields to help them thrive and stay competitive. Strong conservation programs will ensure our farmers are prosperous for generations to come. Rural Development: The final bill must make rural development a priority. There is a huge disconnect between the level of economic prosperity and opportunity available in urban areas versus rural areas. Congress must make it easier for rural communities to gain access to capital for infrastructure and economic development. This includes rural broadband. While both bills invest in rural broadband, I support the House’s effort to include an additional $350 million for grants in rural broadband, electric infrastructure, and telecommunications infrastructure programs. And while I was pleased both bills increased the Rural Water and Wastewater Circuit Rider Program to $25 million, I am opposed to excessive fees and reduced funding to Rural Water and Wastewater Facility Grants that will make it more difficult for rural communities to receive the support they need. Additionally, I do not support attempts to zero-out such programs as the Rural Microentrepreneur Assistance Program and the Value Added Producer Grants Programs as proposed in the House bill. Both programs encourage the growth of rural farms and businesses and are critical for rural prosperity. I also cannot support the House’s language that defunds the Rural Energy for America Program (REAP). I strongly support the Senate’s language that more than doubles REAP funding to $50 million for each fiscal year between 2019 and 2023. However, I urge you to exclude the Senate’s language that makes changes to the cushion of credit program. The cushion of credit program allows entities that borrow money from the Rural Utilities Service (RUS), such as electric cooperatives, to make voluntary deposits into an account that accrues interest and can only be used to repay debts. This provides greater certainty to the federal government that loans will be repaid and offers rural communities affordable electricity. Changes to the program and its current interest rate will ultimately be felt by consumers who will see an increase in their monthly rates. Safety Net for Farmers: The current Senate version includes $18 million for 2017 blueberry and peach losses due to extreme cold. I strongly urge the inclusion of this provision in the final bill and support the highest possible funding. Strong safety net programs and being responsive to farmers’ needs are staples of all farm bills. As commodity prices continue to fall it is important that farmers are able to effectively manage their risks. At the same time, Congress also has a responsibility to act when the unexpected happens. I also urge the adoption of three House provisions over their counterparts in the Senate. First, I support the House’s language to maintain an Adjusted Gross Income limit of $900,000, and oppose the Senate’s effort to reduce it to $700,000. Second, I oppose the overly restrictive definition of and requirements to be considered “actively engaged in farming.” The House bill continues current law on ‘actively engaged’ and expands it to include extended family members. Third, I support the House provision that assists U.S. textile industries by increasing the Economic Adjustment Assistance Program rate to 3.15 cents per pound, compared to the Senate’s language which is only 3 cents. 1890 Land-Grant Universities and Historically Black Colleges and Universities: Now more than ever we must support agriculture research done by institutions of higher education, particularly at 1890 Land-Grant Universities and Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs). These institutions are struggling with deferred maintenance of their research facilities as well as funding disparities. I urge you to provide funding streams that would positively impact their agricultural research. I urge you to include funding for the grant program that awards scholarships to students at 1890 Land-Grant institutions. The average age of farmers and producers in the US is 60 years of age. These scholarships will help increase the number of young African-American individuals seeking a career in the food and agricultural sciences. Trade: As trade uncertainties continue to grow, the agricultural industry is bearing some of the worst consequences. This legislation offers Congress an opportunity to unequivocally stand with our farmers, ranchers, and producers. I support increasing funding for programs that help create, maintain, and strengthen export markets such as the Market Access Program and the Foreign Market Cooperator Program. I also support the establishment of the export assistance program for specialty crops to help address the unique export challenges these crops face. It is critical that this committee, and Congress as a whole, take decisive action to provide immediate relief in any way possible to our producers during current and future trade wars. Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP): Finally, while I agree that we need to cut fraud, waste, and abuse, the drastic cuts and changes to SNAP in the House bill are unacceptable. SNAP is widely considered an efficient and successful safety net that offers desperately needed support to those in need. I strongly support the Senate’s bipartisan language that improves SNAP’s program integrity and operations, invests in pilot programs to better understand job training programs, and most importantly rejects strict work requirements that would kick deserving people, especially kids, veterans, and senior citizens, out of the program. Any reform that would shame those that receive SNAP benefits or limit the ability of vulnerable citizens to receive the nutrition they need to survive must be excluded, particularly in rural areas where food desserts remain a persistent challenge. The committee must also address hunger within the military. In 2013, 23,000 active duty service members relied on SNAP benefits. And in a recent survey of military personal, about 15 percent of those surveyed, responded, “Yes” to experiencing food insecurity. To address this issue, the committee should adopt a provision to exclude the Basic Allowance for Housing Allotment from soldiers’ income calculation. This would allow more service members the opportunity to enroll in SNAP. We must do everything in our power to ensure the current bill does not lapse. I came to Congress to use the political process to improve the quality of life for the people of the 2nd Congressional District of Georgia and all humankind. The farm bill is a piece of legislation that provides certainty and hope to millions of people. I am confident Congress can come together and pass a comprehensive farm bill that meets the challenges our nation faces today. With warmest personal regards, I remain Sincerely yours, Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. Member of Congress ###
07.26.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement on the passage of the FY 2019 National Defense Authorization Act. The bill passed in the U.S. House of Representatives in a vote of 359 to 54. Congressman Bishop voted in support of the legislation. “This bill includes several major enhancements to our national defense and national security. Key provisions include a much needed 2.6% percent pay raise for our service members, which is the largest in nearly a decade. As co-chair of the Congressional Military Family Caucus, I am also pleased by the bill’s enhancements to the career development and employment assistance program for military spouses, who also sacrifice so much for our country. This legislation also provides for modernization initiatives for equipment, cybersecurity enhancements, and many other efforts to increase our military readiness. “However, with all of the good this bill does to enhance our national defense, I am extremely dissatisfied with the conferees’ decision to cancel the recapitalization program for the Joint Surveillance Target Attack Radar System (JSTARS). Although I am pleased with the recent announcement that the Air Force will be making Robins Air Force Base the home for the Advanced Battle-Management System (ABMS), this capability is years off. Our combatant commanders have relied heavily on JSTARS, and Congressman Austin Scott and I fought hard to keep it funded in the House bill until the new platform is in place. Our soldiers should continue to have this lifesaving battle tool while its replacement is being developed. “In some estimations, the replacement for the JSTARS program, the ABMS, will not be ready for deployment until the year 2035. This delay is unacceptable, and I remain committed to using my oversight capacity to ensure that this vital capability is maintained until the Air Force finalizes and puts into service its replacement. I take very seriously my constitutional responsibility to ‘raise and support Armies’, and although much of this legislation does just that, the elimination of the JSTARS recapitalization is a step in the wrong direction. “Despite this significant reservation, I do appreciate the bipartisan work on this bill, and I join my colleagues in support of the FY19 National Defense Authorization Act.”
07.18.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) and Congressman Pete Sessions (TX-32) were joined by Congressman Fred Upton (MI-06) and Congressman Gus Bilirakis (FL-12) in introducing groundbreaking “Eye Bonds” legislation, the Faster Treatments and Cures for Eye Diseases Act (H.R. 6421), to fund translational research and advance treatments and cures for blindness and other eye conditions. The Faster Treatments and Cures for Eye Diseases Act would establish a pilot program to create unique financial instruments called Eye Bonds. These bonds would finance packages of loans to projects at small labs, universities and other centers. They have the potential to mobilize as much as $1 billion in research funding by incentivizing private investment in conjunction with public research dollars which would receive repayment priority. “I have long been an advocate for those living with a disability, whether it is supporting their access to jobs and a productive and robust quality of life or supporting vital health research, and I know that it is essential that we find new ways to tackle old problems,” said Congressman Bishop. “We have had federally funded research sitting on the shelf, waiting for private investors to put it into practice, for far too long. The Eye Bonds created by the Faster Treatments and Cures for Eye Diseases Act will give health research the boost it needs to help Americans. These bonds will fund research that has the potential to deliver new treatments for a range of conditions including macular degeneration, glaucoma, blindness caused by diabetes and sickle cell disease, and many others. And this is just the first step, as similar bonds could be created to support groundbreaking research into a host of other conditions such as cancer, Alzheimer’s and Parkinson's disease.” “Eye-Bonds would pioneer a new way to bring long-term, low-risk private investors into the biomedical arena that should cost the taxpayer virtually nothing,” said Congressman Sessions. “Translational biomedical research advances the initial, basic research taxpayers fund into the cures and treatments private companies develop and patients need. However, this research often takes years of clinical trials and testing, leaving much of the research funded by the government on the shelf instead of out in the clinic. There are times when the private sector needs a push and there is a proper role for the government to play in making these critical advancements — this is one of those instances.” “I’ve always been a strong proponent of finding cures and treatments for patients in need, and this bill will help do just that,” said Congressman Upton. “This bipartisan effort will kick-start funding of innovative biomedical programs to help families and patients in my home state of Michigan, and across the country, suffering from vision impairment and blindness. I’m glad to join with my colleagues to introduce this exciting piece of legislation and look forward to our continued work together.” “As a visually impaired American, I am very proud to support this initiative because it reflects out-of-the box thinking about new ways to spur the development of cures and treatments that could potentially transform lives," said Congressman Bilirakis. "This creative approach to funding innovative treatments to cure blindness holds great promise as a model that can be expanded to support the development of cures for other diseases, which is extremely exciting.” Projects supported by Eye Bonds would fund research for treatments and cures for a wide range of blinding conditions and causes of severe vision impairment, including glaucoma and sickle-cell anemia retinopathy. In addition, “Eye Bonds” funded research would help with treatment for the severe vision trauma that is sadly one of the most common injuries suffered by our warriors in Iraq, Afghanistan, and other theaters of war. Research on treatments and cures for age-related macular degeneration, diabetes retinopathy, and many causes of childhood vision loss could also see significant support from Eye Bond funding. In the U.S. there are more than 4 million adults and almost half-a-million children who are blind or have severely impaired vision. Supporters believe Eye Bonds are urgently needed to overcome what is known as “The Valley of Death,” which refers to research that is never translated into treatments to help humans because of funding issues. This legislation would lift up research from the valley, expediting potential new treatments to the people who need them. Congressman Bishop and his colleagues believe the success of the Eye Bonds could have the potential to provide an alternative way to mobilize federal resources that could be deployed for many other diseases and disabilities, such as cancer, Alzheimer’s and Parkinson's disease. The Faster Treatments and Cures for Eye Diseases Act would implement numerous safeguards to ensure taxpayers’ interests are protected and to quickly reimburse taxpayers for the small initial outlays to start the project. The pilot program would require that the National Eye Institute (NEI), part of the National Institutes of Health (NIH), select eligible projects so that only legitimate, viable projects would receive funding. Furthermore, taxpayers are repaid first – not last – as researchers advance treatments and repay their obligations. The legislation also requires controls at each stage of this pilot program, which would follow rules from the Department of Health and Human Services and Department Treasury to maximize taxpayer protections, speed cures, and prevent conflicts of interest. Eye Bonds legislation has received the support of the Foundation Fighting Blindness, National Alliance for Eye and Vision Research, and Blinded Veterans of America.
07.13.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) and Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro (CT-03) sent a letter yesterday to the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) Secretary Sonny Perdue regarding recent media reports that thousands of low-income people could lose access to Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) benefits at farmers markets across the country. They wrote in the letter: “USDA’s Food and Nutrition Service was recently notified that a company currently providing a SNAP transaction platform plans to shut down. At present, many details surrounding this situation remain unclear; however, we would like to stress the importance of identifying a timely solution to this impending problem.” The ability of farmers markets to accept SNAP benefits is vital, especially in rural areas where residents travel long distances just to buy food. They continued: “The partnership between SNAP and area farmers markets is also critically important to farmers and ranchers in America’s rural economy. Today, SNAP recipients annually purchase more than $18 million worth of products at farmers markets and from direct-marketing farmers, representing a significant share of farm income from coast-to-coast. Any loss of access to SNAP benefits at farmers markets would result in increased hunger and food insecurity for low-income people and decreased revenues for America’s small farmers and ranchers.” A copy of the full letter can be found here. Congressman Bishop is the current Ranking Member of the Agriculture Appropriations Subcommittee. Congresswoman DeLauro is the former Chair of the Agriculture Appropriations Subcommittee.
07.11.2018	ALBANY, GA – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) is pleased to announce that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has allocated $2.747 million in debris removal funding to the City of Albany and $1.192 million in debris removal funding to Macon-Bibb County to help with the recovery from the storms, hurricanes, and tornadoes that struck Georgia in 2017. “Our communities are still recovering from the tremendous destruction that was caused by the storms, hurricanes, and tornadoes that struck the region in 2017,” said Congressman Bishop. “Debris removal and rebuilding efforts remain ongoing. Fortunately, the FEMA grants announced today will provide much needed relief to the City of Albany and Macon-Bibb County. I thank FEMA for its diligent work on behalf of communities here and across the nation that have been struck by natural disaster.” These funds are provided under FEMA’s Public Assistance program, which provides federal assistance to government organizations and certain private nonprofit (PNP) organizations following a Presidential disaster declaration. Earlier in the year, Congressman Bishop, as a senior members of the House Appropriations Committee, included language in the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018 (Pub.L. 115-119) which ensured additional recovery funding was provided through Community Development Block Grant – Disaster Recovery (CDBG-DR) program to help impacted areas. The FEMA funding will supplement this assistance and is specifically directed for debris removal. Middle and Southwest Georgia were issued emergency disaster declarations following storms and tornadoes that struck the state of Georgia in January 2017, causing substantial damage throughout the region. Later in the year, the area was also struck by Hurricanes Maria and Irma, causing further damage in the area. Additional background on FEMA and its Public Assistance programs can be found here.
06.26.2018	ALBANY, GA – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) issued the following notification for interested school safety stakeholders. The U.S. Department of Justice’s COPS Office is now accepting grant applications for the 2018 School Violence Prevention Program. The 2018 School Violence Prevention Program provides funding directly to states, units of local government, and Indian tribes to be used to improve security at schools and on school grounds in the grantees’ jurisdictions through evidence-based school safety programs that may include one or more of the following: Coordination with local law enforcement Training for local law enforcement officers to prevent school violence against others and self Placement and use of metal detectors, locks, lighting, and other deterrent measures Acquisition and installation of technology for expedited notification of local law enforcement during an emergency Any other measure that, in the determination of the director of the COPS Office, may provide a significant improvement in security Applications are due by July 30, 2018 at 7:59 PM EDT. More information on the 2018 School Violence Prevention Program can be found here.
06.22.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement in opposition to the “Goodlatte” immigration bill (H.R. 4760), which failed yesterday in a 193 to 231 vote by the full U.S. House of Representatives, and the Border Security and Immigration Reform Act (H.R. 6136), which was originally scheduled for a vote on the floor but ultimately withdrawn from consideration. “We need a comprehensive, effective, and compassionate immigration system that appropriately balances our country’s security needs, and our workforce needs, with our collective values of uplifting individuals who strive for a better life. Unfortunately, the two immigration bills put forth this week are deficient in these qualities, and fail to uphold our nation’s values. “I strongly agree that we must secure our borders and protect our citizens, but we must maintain an equitable and predictable immigration system. We must also recognize the humanity in those who seek to come to this country. America is a beacon of hope and opportunity around the world. People come to here to study, work, and seek refuge from oppression. However, these bills would make these fundamental goals harder to achieve. The American Dream is not limited to those born here and it does not stop at the border – it is an example that we set for the world. That is what makes America so unique and so desirable. “Comprehensive and compassionate immigration has been elusive for far too long. It is my hope that we can now have a serious dialogue on bipartisan legislation that is reflective of America’s needs, ideals, and values.”
06.21.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Ranking Member of the U.S. House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, released the below statement on today’s passage of the House version of the 2018 Farm Bill by the full U.S. House of Representatives in a vote of 213 to 211. This is the second time the U.S. House has considered this legislation, which previously failed on the House floor in a vote last month. Due to substantial concerns with the negative impact the bill would have on rural communities, farmers, seniors and children, Congressman Bishop opposed the legislation. “Today, I again voted against the House version of the 2018 Farm Bill. The bill the House voted on today was identical to the bill that failed to pass on May 18. I have long supported our farmers, ranchers, and producers, and I remain committed to strengthening American agriculture and rural communities. However, I was unable to support this legislation’s radical cuts, reductions, and changes to programs vital to our country’s agricultural, nutritional, and rural development needs. “I object to the nearly $800 million cut in the bill's conservation title that would effectively eliminate the Conservation Stewardship Program (CSP), the nation’s largest working lands conservation program. Additionally, instead of making it easier for rural communities to gain access to capital for water and sewer infrastructure, housing, broadband, and economic development, this bill would drastically reduce resources for these needs. “The bill also fails to include investments in the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s telemedicine programs, fails to include funding for scholarships at 1890 land grant institutions, and lacks much needed investments in agriculture research and discovery. “Finally, as I have said before, the bill’s reforms to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) would dramatically harm our nation’s most vulnerable populations, including kids, veterans, and senior citizens. SNAP already has strong work requirements, and the stricter requirements included in today’s bill would leave our most vulnerable hungry. The proposed job training requirements would create a huge, permanent bureaucratic expansion of government, and do so at a massive financial cost. In 2012, Georgia proposed to add new work and job training requirements to food stamp eligibility, but ultimately decided against it when the fiscal note demonstrated it would add a net cost for the state of more than $300 million. Today’s bill would introduce similar massive costs to all states in the nation. “This is unacceptable. I urge my colleagues in the Senate to reject this legislation, and I hope that Congress can come together in a bipartisan manner to craft a Farm Bill that better provides for our nation's nutritional, agricultural, and rural development requirements.” The text of the House version of the 2018 Farm Bill can be found here.
06.20.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement condemning the administration’s policy of separating children from their families at the border and urging an immediate halt of such inhumane actions: “The administration’s policy of separating children from their families at the border is inhumane and inconsistent with our nation’s values. I, and virtually all of my colleagues who value the admonitions from Jesus in the 25th chapter of Matthew regarding the ‘least of these’, urge the administration to find its humanity and to immediately cease this destructive policy of family separation.”
06.14.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), a senior member of the U.S. House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement regarding the full House Appropriations Committee’s passage yesterday of the Fiscal Year (FY) 2019 Defense Appropriations Act and FY19 Financial Services and General Government Appropriations Act. Congressman Bishop voted in support of the FY19 Defense Appropriations Act, a bipartisan bill that would provide $674.6 billion to support our nation’s armed forces, an increase of $17.1 billion from FY18. “I was proud to vote in support of the FY19 Defense Appropriations Act during its consideration in committee, and I look forward to the bill’s consideration on the House floor. This legislation ensures the readiness of our servicemembers by fully funding our military’s equipment and training requirements. This measure, additionally, supplies our forces with a 2.6% raise, the largest in the last nine years. This bill also maintains investment in the E-8 Joint Surveillance Target Attack System (JSTARS), located at Robins Air Force Base, in order to continue to enable our military with this much-needed battlefield management capability. Lastly, this bill takes great steps in caring for our soldiers, sailors, airmen, and marines by investing heavily in medical research for diseases such as, prostate cancer, rare cancers, breast cancer, ALS, and numerous other major diseases.” However, due to significant concerns over the elimination of election security grants, rollbacks on our consumer and financial protection agencies, and poison pills that attack women’s health, Congressman Bishop could not support the FY19 Financial Services and General Government Appropriations Act. “Unfortunately, I could not support the FY19 Financial Services and General Government funding bill, which continues the majority’s practice of placing priorities in all the wrong places. The bill eliminates funding needed to replace flawed and outdated voting machines that are susceptible to outside attacks, prohibits funding needed to establish flood risk management standards, handicaps our consumer protection agencies, places restrictions on the ability of women to purchase comprehensive health coverage, underfunds the IRS’s ability to assist taxpayers, and includes a number of unrelated pieces of legislation.”
06.14.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) is pleased to announce that the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) Rural Housing Service has approved over $2.5 million in Multi-Family Housing Loan Guarantees for Southwest Georgia. This includes $588,000 in loan guarantees in Stewart County, $796,000 in loan guarantees in Marion County, and $1.154 million in loan guarantees in Terrell County. These loan guarantees will allow for substantial renovation of 146 affordable housing apartment units to bring them up to modern standards, addressing accessibility and functional obsolescence. No residents are expected to be permanently displaced and construction is anticipated to be complete within 24 months. “Adequate housing is fundamental to one’s identity and dignity,” said Congressman Bishop. “Ensuring access to housing is a vital foundational block for improving quality of life. USDA’s loan guarantees have and will continue to go a long way to ensuring our residents in Middle and Southwest Georgia have access to safe and affordable housing, and I applaud USDA and the Rural Housing Service for its work in this area.” USDA’s Multi-Family Housing Loan Guarantee program, administered by USDA’s Rural Housing Service, works with qualified private-sector lenders to provide financing to qualified borrowers to increase the supply of affordable rental housing for low and moderate income individuals and families in rural communities. Additional information on the program can be found here.
06.07.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Yesterday, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) secured the passage of an amendment to the House version of the Water Resources Development Act of 2018 (WRDA) that provides for the conveyance of three parcels of land, known as the Earle May Recreational Area, from the Army Corps of Engineers to the City of Bainbridge, Georgia. The underlying bill, WRDA, passed the full U.S. House of Representatives in a vote of 408-2. It now awaits further consideration in the U.S. Senate. The Earle May Recreational Area is a destination for people from across the Southeast for its exceptional beauty and the recreational opportunities offered by the Flint River. This transfer of land will allow for the City of Bainbridge to better manage and develop this unique local treasure. Congressman Bishop delivered the below remarks on the House floor during the consideration of the amendment: I thank the Chairman for yielding. I would like to thank Chairman Shuster and the committee staff for their assistance in helping to get this matter to the floor for consideration. This amendment would convey three parcels of land, known as the Earle May Recreational Area, from the Army Corps of Engineers to the city of Bainbridge, Georgia. Mr. Chairman, the Earle May Recreational Area is vitally important to the city of Bainbridge, Georgia. The city has had a long-term lease from the Army Corps of Engineers and it has invested nearly $150 million in improvements to this area for public use. These investments include a $25 million water control plant, several sporting complexes and many other facilities that attract visitors. It is a destination for people from across the southeast for its unique beauty and the recreational opportunities that are offered by the Flint River. Continued improvements, however, could be done much more efficiently if the land were conveyed from the Army Corps to the city of Bainbridge. Since the original lease was initiated in 1980, any improvements that the city attempted to make had to undergo the very long and arduous process that the Army Corps of Engineers utilizes, and therefore, it increased substantially the cost to the city as well as introduced bureaucratic delays. By transferring this land to the people of the City of Bainbridge, I am confident that a proper balance can be struck between the city and the Army Corps, and that we can better facilitate the recreational activities on the Flint River as well as navigation and flood control. I thank the Chairman for his assistance and for agreeing to accept this amendment. With that, I yield back.
05.25.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement today in recognition of this upcoming Memorial Day on Monday, May 28, 2018: “Many Americans mark this weekend as the unofficial start of summer. However, let’s not forget the true meaning of this weekend. Monday, May 28, 2018 is Memorial Day, and on this day, join me in remembering the sacrifices of our nation’s service men and women. We owe them a debt of gratitude that can never be repaid and we must honor their legacy.” “Regardless if you are working, at church, or on vacation with friends and family, let us remember the fallen heroes and their families in our hearts and minds. Without the sacrifice of our Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen, Marines, and Coast Guardsmen, our nation would not have the freedoms we enjoy today.”
05.25.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – On Wednesday, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, sent a letter to U.S. Secretary of Transportation Elaine Chao urging an extension of the existing waiver on electronic logging device (ELD) requirements for trucks hauling agriculture-related products. The current waiver, which was announced on March 13, 2018, is set to expire on June 18, 2018. Congressman Bishop wrote in the letter: “As a Member of Congress from one of the largest agriculture-producing states this is an important issue for me and many of my constituents. The ELD rule directly impacts the livelihoods of our farmers, ranchers, and the truckers who support them. With the deadline looming again, I write to urge you and Administrator Martinez to provide another extension.” He continued: “I am also concerned that the current ELD technology is not able to accommodate the agricultural exemption that is provided under the hours-of-service regulations. Without the available technology being able to implement the flexibility that Congress envisioned for perishable cargoes, those exemptions effectively do not exist.” ELDs track the number of hours truckers are on the road. According to the hours-of-service regulations promulgated by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (FMCSA), which is the Department of Transportation’s lead oversight agency on commercial trucking, truckers can only drive 11 hours in a 24-hour period. However, due to the unique requirements of the agricultural industry, and the perishability of agriculture-related products, FMCSA has provided certain hours-of-service exemptions to agricultural shippers. Unfortunately, existing ELDs on the market do not fully accommodate the unique hours-of-service rules that apply to agricultural shippers. This presents unique compliance challenges for the agriculture industry as it ships its perishable items. FMCSA issued a waiver from ELD requirements for trucks carrying agricultural commodities, which expires on June 18, 2018. Additionally, a separate ELD exemption, set to expire on September 30, 2018, for truckers carrying agricultural livestock was included in The Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2018 (Pub.L. 115-141). Congressman Bishop believes more time is needed to ensure adequate ELD products reach the market before full implementation of the ELD rule on agricultural shippers. Additional background on Electronic Logging Devices and the ELD Rule can be found here. Additional background on hours-of-service regulations, as they apply to agricultural shippers, can be found here. A scan of Congressman Bishop’s letter can be found here. The full letter text can also be found below: May 23, 2018 The Honorable Elaine Chao U.S. Department of Transportation 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE Washington, DC 20590 Dear Secretary Chao: In March, I was pleased that the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (FMCSA) granted another 90-day waiver from the electronic logging device (ELD) rule for trucks carrying agricultural commodities. As a Member of Congress from one of the largest agriculture-producing states this is an important issue for me and many of my constituents. The ELD rule directly impacts the livelihoods of our farmers, ranchers, and the truckers who support them. With the deadline looming again, I write to urge you and Administrator Martinez to provide another extension. The ELD mandate is exacerbating the severe driver shortage. Earlier this month, I heard from a constituent who is a grower and shipper of fresh market sweet corn. He is facing freight rates that are 30 percent higher than normal. As we reach peak corn season he is worried he will not be able to find enough trucks to haul his corn. Unfortunately, this is not an outlier. Shippers across the country and across multiple commodities are paying higher shipping rates. The agricultural community is uniquely affected by these rates since it is shipping perishable products. Timely delivery is critical as there is a very small window from harvest to sale. I am also concerned that the current ELD technology is not able to accommodate the agricultural exemption that is provided under the hours-of-service regulations. Without the available technology being able to implement the flexibility that Congress envisioned for perishable cargoes, those exemptions effectively do not exist. By further delaying the rule we can ensure drivers are not needlessly vulnerable to inquiries from law enforcement. It will also provide time to fully think through the unique aspects of agriculture transportation. In particular, I ask that you consider allowing the 150 air-mile agricultural exemption to begin at the final pick up point for multi-point pickups. In my district and across the country drivers must utilize multiple pick-up points to fill their truck. I have small farms in my district, many under 100 acres, which have come to rely on these supply chains and operational efficiencies. Safety must always be a top priority, but it is also our job to ensure regulations are smart and fair. Further delaying the ELD rule for agriculture commodities will provide relief to both producers and shippers. I appreciate your continued attention to this important issue and look forward to your reply. With warmest personal regards, I remain Sincerely yours, Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. Member of Congress
05.22.2018	ATLANTA, GA – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Morehouse College Class of 1968, delivered the commencement address this past Sunday to the 2018 graduates at Morehouse College’s 134th Commencement. Congressman Bishop delivering the commencement address to the 2018 Graduates of Morehouse College Text of Congressman Bishop’s full address can be found below: President Thomas and Mrs. Thomas, President Franklin and Mrs. Franklin, President Massey and Mrs. Massey; Members of the Board of Trustees; Faculty, Students, and Staff; Members of the 2018 graduating class; Members of the Reunion classes – particularly the Class of 1968 – Alumni, family, and friends: I bring you greetings from the 435 Members of the United States House of Representatives, the 100 Members of the United States Senate, and specifically the 49 Members of the Congressional Black Caucus, led by a dynamic, bold, and courageous young man, Congressman Cedric Richmond of Louisiana, a Morehouse Man - Class of 1995. I bring you greetings from my wife Vivian and the 730,000 people of the 2nd Congressional District of Georgia, consisting of 29 counties in middle and southwest Georgia, who have allowed me to represent them in Washington for some 26 years; And, I bring you greetings from our ancestors, and from Morehouse Men — wherever they are —living, dead, or yet to be born! “This is the day that the Lord has made. Let us rejoice and be glad in it!” I am grateful for the opportunity to share this great day in your lives. Not just for you graduates, but also for parents and all those who prayed, worked, sacrificed, and supported you so you could reach this milestone. There is no greater honor than to be asked to be a commencement speaker; and for me to be asked to be commencement speaker on the 50th anniversary of my graduation from Morehouse. But I am not so vain, nor am I so foolish as to believe that this great assemblage of people has come here at 8:00 this morning to hear Sanford Bishop speak! I know better! I know you are here to either receive your degree or witness a relative, special friend, or student receive his degree. And if you work at the college, you had no choice but to be here! If you are in one of the reunion classes, particularity the Class of 1968, you are here to celebrate your 50th class reunion and to meet and greet your classmates, to fellowship, reminisce, and reflect on those long past years when we were all a few pounds a lighter, in better health, had a full head of hair, and the hair we had was black and not gray. A funeral director friend of mine told me that a good commencement speaker should consider himself like the body at an old fashioned wake: they need you for the party, but they don’t expect you to say much. So I know my place here and I promise you I will be brief! Class of 2018, we are proud of you! Just a little while ago, you were starting elementary school, and now you are about to become Morehouse College graduates. Many of you have defied the odds. Many of you have had to struggle. I am proud of you and so thrilled for your families who sit out there beaming with pride and joy that you have made it to this day. You make your families and those who care about you proud! They have had some sleepless nights and some uncertain days. But they had faith in almighty God and in you that you would succeed and not falter in your pursuit of a baccalaureate degree and a higher education. Today, you are joining the ranks of generations of men spanning 151 years who have been molded and shaped into Morehouse Men by an institution with a rich history and deep commitment to developing Black men, so as to empower them to change the world. During your matriculation here, you have been infused, voluntarily and involuntarily, with a confluence of ideas and forces by faculty, mentors, fellow students, friends, events, experiences, circumstances – intellectual and non-intellectual, academic and nonacademic – that have impacted you in countless ways that are positive, to mold and shape you into quintessential Morehouse Men: WELL READ, WELL SPOKEN, WELL TRAVELED, WELL DRESSED, AND WELL BALANCED… Men who know that from you there is, in the words of Dr. Bennie Mays, “An air of expectation!” We expect you to do well! We expect you to excel. And, we expect you to be confident. But, we expect your confidence not be “conceit” but rather modest self-esteem. And we expect you to give back selflessly to your community and to the world community. Howard Thurman, Class of 1923, said: “Over the heads of her students Morehouse holds a crown that she challenges them to grow tall enough to wear!” Well, today, Class of 2018, you have grown a foot taller, but you still have a way to go before you can claim that crown. At the 1948 commencement, a young man named Martin Luther King Jr. sat where you now sit, waiting to receive his degree. He had been shaped and nurtured by the forces at Morehouse but had no earthly idea how God had ordered his steps to impact mankind and change the world. Twenty years later in 1968 we, who today celebrate our 50th and Golden Anniversary Commencement, sat where you now sit, barely a month after Dr. King was killed, and forever changed by the events of April 4th 1968. But wait! Put a pin right there! With your sanctified Morehouse imagination, let’s roll back the clock and turn back the calendar to September 1964, when the Class of 1968 entered Morehouse. Dr. Benjamin Mays was President, Dr. Brailsford Brazeal, Academic Dean, and Dr. Fred C. Lofton was Dean of Students. Freshman week, we gathered in Sale Hall Chapel to hear Dr. Lofton introduce us to Morehouse. He told us that Morehouse was a special place, that Morehouse produced philosopher kings, the talented 10th – the movers and shakers of society, men like Martin Luther King Jr. who would change the world. Not every young man who entered Morehouse, he said, was destined to be a Morehouse Man. It took hard work, discipline, study, prayer, and perseverance. He told us about a student from last year who he called “Spelman Willie” who spent his time at Spelman rather than in his studies. “He’s not back this year, and the one who goofed off and was overtaken by various and sundry other distractions — he’s not back this year.” Then he said: “Look at the one sitting next to you right now, chances are he won’t be back next year!” A few of us made it back. Our class entered at a time of great challenge, controversy, and cataclysmic change. We entered just months after the March on Washington and Dr. King’s “I have a Dream Speech”; just months after the Ku Klux Klan bombing at the 16th Street Baptist Church in Birmingham, Alabama killed four little innocent black girls; just months after Dr. King aroused the conscience of the nation with his letter from the Birmingham jail which brought about the 1964 Civil Rights Bill; just months after passage of the 1964 Civil Rights Act outlawing discrimination based on race, creed, color, religion, national origin in public accommodations and employment, and enforcing desegregation of schools. That was preceded just a couple of years before by students sitting-in at segregated lunch counters all across the South and getting on buses and taking rides for freedom. It was a time of turmoil, a time of change, and a time of division. A month after we entered Morehouse, Dr. King was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize and the next year he led the campaign in Selma, Alabama that brought about the Voting Rights Act of 1965 that made it possible for African Americans to be elected to public office, all across the South. Dr. Mays, recognizing the transformative power of Dr. King’s work and his receipt of the Nobel Prize, invited him to the campus for a convocation where he met and addressed the student body and the Atlanta community and received an honorary degree from his Alma Mater. We met him, we were inspired by him, and we followed him! Now let’s go back, and take that pin out, back to April 4th 1968. Dr. Mays is now retired. Dr. Gloster is now president. We finish dinner in the Mays Hall dining room and go into the student lounge to watch the 6 o’clock news. We see and hear our hero tell us that he has been to the mountain top and he has seen the promised land. “I may not get there with you,” he says, “but I know that one day, we as a people, will get to the promised land!” The news goes off at 7:00 pm, and immediately thereafter, there is breaking news that he has been shot! All hell broke loose! The community around the Morehouse campus and across America erupted! White owned businesses went up in flames, and, as Student Government President, I, along with other campus leaders, sprang into action to protect our campus buildings from damage and destruction. Five days later, hundreds of us went to the first funeral at Ebenezer Baptist Church, then walked behind the mule drawn wagon bearing Dr. King’s body with Reverend Hosea Williams and tens of thousands of people, from Auburn Avenue to the Century Campus where we are today, for the large public funeral attended by celebrities, politicians, and dignitaries from all across the world. As the thousands filed into the campus from the Fair Street gate, I ran to the dormitory to put on my Glee Club blazer and returned to the stage to sing at his funeral. Dr. Mays gave the eulogy and, among other things, he said: “Too bad, you say, that Martin Luther King Jr. died so young. I feel that way too. But as I have said many times before, it isn’t how long one lives, but how well. It’s what one accomplishes for mankind that matters….” That Morehouse experience caused me and countless others of my generation to commit our lives to keeping Dr. King’s dream alive and making it a reality. I became a civil rights lawyer, which led me to the Georgia State House, State Senate, and to Congress, to use the political process to improve people’s lives. Now to the Class of 2018: you entered Morehouse in a different era. There were persistent problems, but when you came, it was during the 2nd term of the first African American President of the United States. Building on the work of Dr. King, it appeared as if the nation had looked beyond “color” to “competence.” The world had entered and was well into the digital age and many believed that we had moved to a post-racial era. Then 2016 happened, and 45 was elected. We had trouble from Russia, across Europe, North Korea, the Middle East, and across the globe. Turmoil. Protests, and growing unrest escalating across America. Hostility, division, mistrust, continued violence, disregard for truth, disregard for character values; words of racial and national denigration flowing rapidly across cyber space, emanating from the White House. While the Statue of Liberty still bears the inscription, “Give me your tired, your poor, your masses yearning to be free,” those in power at the White House want to shut the door. The country has taken a turn toward a second reconstruction – an undoing of the gains for humanity achieved in the last 50 years. This is the world you will be entering. You must take up the struggle. But have no fear! Your Morehouse experience has prepared you. Your academic preparation, your discipline, your persistence, your faith, and your commitment to humanity have prepared you. You have the tools! The poet R. L. Sharp says: “Isn't it strange how princes and kings, and clowns that caper in sawdust rings, and common folks, like you and me, are builders for eternity? Each is given a list of rules; a shapeless mass; a bag of tools. And each must fashion, ere life is flown, A stumbling block, or a stepping stone.” Class of 2018, be stepping stones for a better life for humanity in whatever field you choose! Josiah G. Holland said: “GOD, give us men! A time like this demands Strong minds, great hearts, true faith and ready hands; Men whom the lust of office does not kill; Men whom the spoils of office can not buy; Men who possess opinions and a will; Men who have honor; men who will not lie; Men who can stand before a demagogue And damn his treacherous flatteries without winking! Tall men, sun-crowned, who live above the fog In public duty, and in private thinking; For while the rabble, with their thumb-worn creeds, Their large professions and their little deeds, Mingle in selfish strife, lo! Freedom weeps, Wrong rules the land and waiting Justice sleeps.” God give us men! God give us Morehouse Men! Class of 2018, go forth and change the world!
05.21.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Ranking Member of the U.S. House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, released the below statement on the House version of the 2018 Farm Bill, which was considered Friday on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives. Due to substantial concerns over the negative impact the bill would have had on rural communities, farmers, seniors and children, Congressman Bishop opposed the legislation. He was joined by a bipartisan majority of his colleagues, and the bill failed in a 198 to 213 vote by the full U.S. House of Representatives. The text of the House version of the 2018 Farm Bill can be found here. The Farm Bill is always a critically important piece of legislation for the 2nd Congressional District of Georgia, which includes 2.5 million acres of farmland, as well as a mix of urban and rural communities. Unfortunately, I, along with a bipartisan majority of the U.S. House of Representatives, could not support the Farm Bill that was put forth for consideration. It would have abandoned our rural communities, our farmers, our seniors, and our children that rely on its vital agriculture and nutrition programs. As the Ranking Member on the House Agriculture Appropriations Subcommittee, which is ultimately responsible for funding the programs authorized in the Farm Bill, I understand the dual importance of adequately funding nutrition programs to help our most vulnerable citizens, while at the same time, strengthening crop insurance programs to protect our nation’s farmers. My subcommittee faces that balancing act every year – it requires open dialogue, compromise, and consensus. There are many Farm Bill priorities that enjoy bipartisan support. For example, the Emergency Food Assistance Program, which is a very important program for hunger relief, has broad support. In rural areas, like the district I represent, it can provide anywhere from 40 to 60 percent of the food inventory at food banks. There is significant agreement on funding for the Farm-to-Food Bank fund, which seeks to strengthen the partnerships between growers and producers to increase food donations, and there is agreement on a number of important programs aimed at helping veteran farmers and ranchers. There is also significant agreement on the crop insurance program, and I was pleased that the bill that was put forward largely left commodity programs as they were structured in the 2014 bill. However, there were significant problems with many provisions included in the bill. As it was written, this bill would have failed our rural communities. Lack of adequate broadband remains one of the biggest barriers to the global market for rural communities. It is also a barrier to education. In my district, I have students who huddle outside the local library after hours just to access the internet. In 2018, this is unacceptable. Instead of making it easier for rural communities to gain access to capital for infrastructure and economic development, this bill would have increased financing costs by adding fees to Rural Development loans. The bill also failed to include investments in the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s telemedicine programs. It is absolutely critical for our rural communities to be able to leverage the latest advances in technology to maximize rural healthcare. Telemedicine is revolutionizing patient care and saving lives. In the face of the opioid epidemic, we must invest in these initiatives. I also object to the nearly $800 million cut in the conservation title that would have effectively eliminated the Conservation Stewardship Program (CSP), the nation’s largest working lands conservation program. The bill failed to include funding for scholarships at 1890 land grant institutions and lacked much needed investments in agriculture research and discovery. I am also opposed to the dramatic and radical changes the bill would have made to our nutrition safety net programs, including the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP). Particularly, I am worried that stricter work requirements and job training programs would kick deserving people, especially kids, veterans, and senior citizens, out of the programs they need to survive. SNAP already has work requirements in place, and I believe they go far enough. The monthly monitoring of weekly work or training requirements would create a huge, permanent bureaucratic expansion of government, and do so at a massive financial cost. In 2012, my home state of Georgia proposed radical changes to food stamp eligibility, not too different from the changes that were proposed in Friday’s bill. The Georgia measure ultimately failed because the Georgia General Assembly determined that it would have a net cost for the state of more than $300 million, and the bill that failed in the U.S. House would have introduced similar massive costs to all states in the nation. Later this year, 19 grocery stores will close in Georgia – nine in my district. Three counties in my district have no grocery store at all. Transferring money from SNAP to state-run job training programs would have devastating consequences for local communities. It would take away business from local grocery stores, which are already too few in number, and further contribute to the prevalence of food deserts in rural communities and low-income urban communities all across the country. I am glad to note that the proposal to replace traditional food assistance benefits with pre-packaged ‘Harvest Boxes’ was not included in the agriculture appropriations subcommittee bill, and I strenuously opposed its inclusion in the Farm Bill that was put forth for consideration. I have severe concerns about the logistical challenges of the Harvest Box proposal and few details have been offered. I am also concerned about the program’s health implications, especially for the very young and those with dietary restrictions. Moreover, I have serious concerns regarding the physical security of boxes if they were to be delivered and left at residences. I agree that we must cut waste, fraud, and abuse, improve the efficiency of our federal programs, and ensure the integrity of the nutrition safety nets. However, we must not do so at the expense of our rural communities and our most vulnerable. I am pleased that a bipartisan majority of my colleagues came to the same conclusion, and I hope they will stand strong as we continue to debate and consider the future of our agriculture and nutrition programs.
05.18.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) led 25 other Members of Congress in a letter to Administrator Emily Murphy of the U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) urging her to take into consideration any potential negative impacts to the AbilityOne Program as GSA considers reforms to federal acquisition regulations. The AbilityOne Program supports employment opportunities for more than 45,000 Americans living with blindness or other disabilities. The Members of Congress wrote in the letter: “We applaud GSA for highlighting the AbilityOne Program as one of the “Unique Government requirements that advance key national interests…” in its March 2018 Implementation Plan. We strongly concur with that statement and support the AbilityOne Program and the opportunities it affords people who are blind or significantly disabled to secure quality employment and enhance their opportunities for personal and economic independence.” They continued: “As GSA moves forward with the next two phases of its work to implement Sec. 846, we strongly urge the agency to fully assess any possible impacts regarding the use of commercial e-Commerce portals on the AbilityOne Program and the SKILCRAFT and AbilityOne products it currently sells to federal customers.” The AbilityOne Program offers employment options and a path forward to personal and economic independence for more than 45,000 Americans, including over 3,000 veterans, who live with blindness or other significant disabilities. It is the largest source of employment for people living with disabilities, and provides goods and services for the federal government at over 1,000 locations. Additional background on the AbilityOne Program can be found here. A scan of the letter can be found here. The full letter text can also be found below: Dear Administrator Murphy: We write today regarding the U.S. General Services Administration (GSA)’s work to implement Sec. 846 of the 2018 National Defense Authorization Act (Procurement Through Commercial E-Commerce Portals), and the importance of protecting the Javits-Wagner-O’Day (JWOD) Act and federal agency purchasing of products through the AbilityOne Program. The AbilityOne Program provides employment opportunities for over 45,000 Americans who are blind or have significant disabilities. The JWOD Act mandates that federal government entities obtain any products or services included on the AbilityOne Program Procurement List (PL) from a nonprofit agency employing persons who are blind or have other significant disabilities as long as that product or service is available within the normal period required by that government entity. We applaud GSA for highlighting the AbilityOne Program as one of the “Unique Government requirements that advance key national interests…” in its March 2018 Implementation Plan. We strongly concur with that statement and support the AbilityOne Program and the opportunities it affords people who are blind or significantly disabled to secure quality employment and enhance their opportunities for personal and economic independence. As GSA moves forward with the next two phases of its work to implement Sec. 846, we strongly urge the agency to fully assess any possible impacts regarding the use of commercial e-Commerce portals on the AbilityOne Program and the SKILCRAFT and AbilityOne products it currently sells to federal customers. We support the use of commercial e-Commerce portals in order to streamline federal government acquisition, and believe this can be achieved while also strengthening socioeconomic programs such as AbilityOne that support the federal marketplace. The federal government can modernize its purchasing practices while still fully complying with the JWOD Act, ensuring continued employment for tens of thousands of Americans who are blind or have significant disabilities. We thank you, again, for GSA’s support for the AbilityOne Program. Sincerely, Rep. Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. Rep. Alma S. Adams, Ph.D. Rep. Nanette Diaz Barragán Rep. Susan W. Brooks Rep. Larry Bucshon, M.D. Rep. André Carson Rep. Emanuel Cleaver, II Rep. Barbara Comstock Rep. Val Demings Rep. Mike Doyle Rep. Brian Higgins Rep. Will Hurd Rep. Henry C. “Hank” Johnson, Jr. Rep. Luke Messer Rep. Gwen Moore Rep. David E. Price Rep. Jamie Raskin Rep. David P. Roe, M.D. Rep. Pete Sessions Rep. Lamar Smith Rep. Claudia Tenney Rep. Mike Thompson Rep. Bennie G. Thompson Rep. Fred Upton Rep. Filemon Vela Rep. David Young
05.17.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Ranking Member of the U.S. House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, delivered the following opening statement yesterday during the full U.S. House Appropriations Committee’s markup of the Fiscal Year (FY) 2019 funding bill for the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) and its farm and nutrition programs, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), and related agriculture agencies. Congressman Bishop supported the legislation, which was reported out of committee in a vote of 31 to 21. During the markup, the committee also passed Congressman Bishop’s amendment that maintains the availability of harm reducing nicotine vapor products, while also keeping them out of the reach of children through robust advertising and labeling rules, enhanced shipment age-verification, battery standards, and FDA funding for education and outreach. The full legislation now awaits further consideration by the full U.S. House of Representatives. Video and background on the full committee markup can be found here. Below is Congressman Bishop’s full statement as prepared, as well as bill background and highlights: Thank you for yielding Mr. Chairman. I want to start off by again saying thank you to you and our subcommittee colleagues for diligently working together, across party lines, to get us where we are today in this appropriations process. We tirelessly worked under an unusually short time frame and a budget request from the President that was so draconian it again met with bi-partisan opposition. Therefore, I am not only pleased, but I am proud that we, as a subcommittee, were able to reject so much if it outright to keep this country fed with the safest and most abundant food supply in the world. This Fiscal Year 2019 agriculture bill was greatly helped by the 2 year budget agreement we are operating under and has received a slight increase (less than 1 percent) over last year’s enacted level. That said, it is $6.2 billion over the President’s request. This resulted in a bill that, while it is not what I would have written, is certainly better than the House bill we considered last year and much better than what the Administration would have given the American people. Our communities need these programs more than ever and they need them to be funded robustly. With that Mr. Chairman, I want to emphasize that I am looking forward to us working together during the appropriations process to make necessary improvements to this bill before it is signed into law. We will do some of that today, as we debate amendments on, among other issues, e-cigarettes, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), and restricting horse slaughter. With respect to this 2019 agriculture bill, I was pleased to see mandatory funding for the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) and child nutrition that is consistent with current estimates. I am especially pleased that it does this without including onerous legislative proposals made by the Administration, such as “harvest boxes.” I was also pleased to see that the bill provides $1.5 billion for Food for Peace and McGovern-Dole is funded at $208 million, both of which were zeroed out by the President’s request. Food for Peace is funded below the 2018 level and McGovern-Dole is equal to it, but at least both programs are far above zero. On the positive side, the bill provides $915 million for Research and Education activities, a $28 million increase over FY18, which includes funding for the 1890 historically Black land-grant institutions, as well as the Hispanic-serving and Native American tribal-controlled land-grant institutions. I am also pleased we were able to find funding for the Centers of Excellence at 1890 institutions. I believe these Centers will be great resources to the agriculture community, and they are now on their way to being fully realized. While the Administration’s request for Rural Development was appalling, this subcommittee’s mark for rural America is an impressive improvement over the President’s plan for rural funding. The President’s budget proposal called for zeroing out several programs, including housing, business, and all but one waste water program, which could have proved disastrous for our small and impoverished rural communities. In contrast, this bill maintains the momentum we started building in FY 2018 to make investments in our rural communities. It also makes investment in broad band and telemedicine. Turning away from the bill for a second; Mr. Chairman, I must point out that we have no full list of subcommittee allocations. Marking up just one bill at a time without a full list of allocations leaves us effectively working in the dark. If history proves correct, we are again in danger of having a broken appropriations process. I would be remiss if I didn’t say that it will be unconscionable for any of us to help pass spending bills that shift burdens onto working families and the most vulnerable among us. Agreeing to subcommittee allocations bill by bill puts us at a great danger of doing just that. Before I yield back Mr. Chairman, I would like to recognize the staff for all of their hard work and time put into this bill. From the Minority Committee Staff, I would like to thank Martha Foley and Angela Ohm, as well as Michael Reed and Joseph Layman from my personal office. From the Majority Committee Staff, I would like to thank Tom O’Brien, Pam Miller, Justin Masucci, Andrew Cooper, and Sarah Doese; and Brian Rell from Chairman Aderholt’s office. I want to thank Chairman Aderholt for his hard work and his cooperative spirt and the subcommittee’s work. As we move forward, I thank our Ranking Member, Ms. Lowey, and Chairman, Mr. Frelinghuysen, for their efforts to help this committee move forward to benefit the American people and benefit our rural communities, our farmers, our ranchers, and our consumers who consume nutritious food in America. Thank you Mr. Chairman and I yield back. FY19 AGRICULTURE FUNDING BACKGROUND & BILL HIGHLIGHTS: Notable Provisions Added During Full Committee Markup: Food Deserts: I supported an increase in the Healthy Food Financing Initiative (HFFI) by $1M for a total of $2M. HFFI helps provide access to healthy food in underserved areas and helps revitalize low-income communities. Cole Bishop E-Vapor Provision: This provision maintains the availability of harm reducing nicotine vapor products, while also keeping them out of the reach of children through robust advertising and labeling rules, enhanced shipment age-verification, battery standards, and FDA funding for education and outreach. 1890 Centers of Excellence: I was able to secure $5 million specifically for 1890 Centers of Excellence, which provides support to small farms, ranches and forest landowners in high poverty areas; establishes a virtual center to support the science, technology, engineering, agriculture, and mathematics (STEAM) pipeline of students to meet future workforce needs; and helps satisfy the nation's need in the areas of international engagement and global food security. SNAP Data Protection: I co-sponsored an amendment, passed on a voice vote, that adds bill language to protect SNAP retailers from disclosing data related to SNAP purchases. 10-20-30 Provision for Persistent Poverty Counties: I was a strong supporter of an amendment to help address Persistent Poverty Counties (PPCs), which continue to be a challenge in my district and in rural communities across the nation. FY19 Mark: $23.273 billion ($14 million above the FY18 Enacted) FY18 Enacted: $23.259 billion Nutrition Programs: $73.2 billion in mandatory Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) funding. While this is $794 million below last year’s level, it is consistent with current estimates. $28 million for the Summer Electronic Benefit Transfer for Children program (Summer EBT), which is equal to FY18 and $5 million over the request. $64.4 million for the Temporary Emergency Food Assistance Program (TEFAP) $6 billion for the Women, Infants, and Children program (WIC). Rural Development: $3.079 billion for rural development programs, including: $35 million for Distance Learning, Telemedicine, Broadband grants, which was spearheaded by Congressman Sanford Bishop and funded at $5 million more than last year. $1 billion for single family direct loans. $1.45 billion for rural water and wastewater program loans. $637 million for water and wastewater grants for clean and reliable drinking water systems and sanitary wastewater disposal systems Research: $3.1 billion for agriculture research programs, including the Agricultural Research Service (ARS) and the National Institute of Food and Agriculture (NIFA). Food Safety: $1.05 billion for food safety and inspection programs. Animal and Plant Health: $998.4 million for the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service. International: $1.5 billion for Food for Peace ($216M below 2018) and $208 million for McGovern-Dole (equal to FY18). Food and Drug Administration (FDA): $3.120 billion for FDA, $308 million more than FY18. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC): $255 million for CFTC, $6 million above FY18.
05.15.2018	ALBANY, GA – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Ranking Member of the U.S. House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture and Co-Chair of the Congressional Peanut Caucus, welcomes the appointment of six members to the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Peanut Standards Board. This round of appointments includes the reappointment of peanut producer Martin ‘Marty’ L. McLendon of Leary, Georgia. “The Peanut Standards Board is a vital source of expertise and advice to the U.S. Department of Agriculture and the peanut industry as a whole, and I welcome the new round of board appointments by Secretary Perdue” said Congressman Bishop. “I am particularly excited about the reappointment of Mr. Marty McLendon to the Peanut Standards Board. I have had the pleasure of knowing Mr. McLendon for many years. In addition to being a resident of the Second Congressional District, he is a dedicated and hardworking peanut farmer with years of experience. He is acutely aware of the issues, and challenges, facing peanut producers and I am confident he will represent the Peanut Standards Board and the State of Georgia admirably.” The 2002 Farm Bill required the USDA Secretary to establish a Peanut Standards Board for the purpose of advising the Secretary on quality and handling standards for domestically produced and imported peanuts. The Peanut Standards Board provides consultation to USDA on quality and handling standards for domestically produced and imported peanuts. It consists of a total 18 members, evenly split between peanut producers and industry representatives. Members serve staggered three year terms. Martin L. McLendon was born and raised in Southwest, Georgia and is a graduate of the University of Georgia. Being a major producer in the peanut Industry, he also serves as Chairman on the Georgia Flint River Commission and is very active in civic activities in his community. The full set of new appointments, which will serve the remainder of three-year terms of office ending on June 30, 2020, includes: Southeast Region: Producer Martin L. McLendon, Leary, GA Industry Representative Elizabeth Kaye Smith, affiliated with Golden Peanut Company LLC, Alpharetta, GA Southwest Region: Producer James Richard Chandler, Portales, NM Industry Representative John Edward Bennett, affiliated with Mars Chocolate, Waco, TX Virginia/Carolina Region: Producer James Wilson Mason, Harrellsville, NC Industry Representative Kathryn Olivia Swinson, affiliated with Golden Grove Inc., Warsaw, NC
05.09.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Ranking Member of the U.S. House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies, released the following statement regarding the subcommittee's passage of its Fiscal Year (FY) 2019 spending bill: “I thank Chairman Aderholt for his collaborative approach to crafting this FY19 Agriculture Appropriations bill. This bill is a vital component of our agricultural landscape and nutritional safety-net. It provides the resources needed to ensure our food products and prescription drugs are safe, and is the primary driver of support for rural communities. “There is more work to be done, but I am pleased with our progress on this important bill. This legislation includes adequate funding for our food safety-net programs and largely avoids reforms that would limit the ability of vulnerable citizens to receive the nutrition they need to survive. It also provides additional support for our rural housing, water and broadband programs. “I believe we need a robust strategy to solve the issue of food deserts in America, and I am very supportive of the Healthy Food Financing Initiative included in this bill. This program leverages public private partnerships with grocery stores and other food businesses to expand the availability of nutritious and affordable foods. “This legislation also continues the Distance Learning Telemedicine program, which I first spearheaded in last year’s bill, with $5 million in additional funding. This program will help spur innovative delivery of health services in rural areas by leveraging advances at the intersection of medicine and telecommunication. “I am hopeful that we can continue our collaborative, bipartisan approach to this bill as it moves toward consideration by the full House Appropriations Committee, and ultimately the full U.S. House of Representatives.” Below is a list of highlights of funding levels and other key provisions in the FY19 Agriculture Appropriations Bill: BACKGROUND & BILL HIGHLIGHTS: FY19 Mark: $23.273 billion ($14 million above the FY18 Enacted) FY19 Request: $17.036 billion FY18 Enacted: $23.259 billion Nutrition Programs: $73.2 billion in mandatory Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) funding. While this is $794 million below last year’s level, it is consistent with current estimates. $28 million for the Summer Electronic Benefit Transfer for Children program (Summer EBT), which is equal to FY18 and $5 million over the request. $64.4 million for the Temporary Emergency Food Assistance Program (TEFAP) $6 billion for the Women, Infants, and Children program (WIC). Rural Development: $3.079 billion for rural development programs, including: $35 million for Distance Learning, Telemedicine, Broadband grants, which was spearheaded by Congressman Sanford Bishop and funded at $5 million more than last year. $1 billion for single family direct loans. $1.45 billion for rural water and wastewater program loans. $637 million for water and wastewater grants for clean and reliable drinking water systems and sanitary wastewater disposal systems Research: $3.1 billion for agriculture research programs, including the Agricultural Research Service (ARS) and the National Institute of Food and Agriculture (NIFA). Food Safety: $1.05 billion for food safety and inspection programs. Animal and Plant Health: $998.4 million for the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service. International: $1.5 billion for Food for Peace ($216M below 2018) and $208 million for McGovern-Dole (equal to FY18). Food and Drug Administration (FDA): $3.120 billion for FDA, $308 million more than FY18. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC): $255 million for CFTC, $6 million above FY18.
05.08.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), a senior member of the U.S. House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans Affairs (MILCON/VA), released the following statement regarding the full House Appropriations Committee’s passage of the Fiscal Year 2019 MILCON/VA Appropriations bill, which provides funding for our nation’s veterans programs and military construction needs. “Today, the U.S. House Appropriations Committee once again came together in a bipartisan fashion to meet the needs of our service members, veterans, and their families. As a senior member, and former ranking member, of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, I am confident that the FY 2019 bill enhances our military readiness and provides the resources necessary to deliver quality care to our nation’s veterans. "This legislation ensures that our Armed forces operate in facilities that support our service members and their families wherever they work, train, or live. I am pleased that the bill provides a total of $112.6 million toward military construction needs in Georgia. This includes considerable investment in the Army’s cyberwarfare capabilities at Fort Gordon, as well as funding for a much needed Welding and Body Repair Shop Facility on Marine Corps Logistics Base Albany. Additionally, this bill will initiate construction on a $13.6 million Naval Reserve Training Center on Fort Benning, which will allow for training enhancements and increased support for reservists. "The FY2019 MILCON/VA appropriations bill also continues to fund our veterans healthcare programs and ensures our veterans have continued access to the VA programs and services that they have earned. "I believe this bill would be beneficial to our military service members, veterans and their families and I am hopeful that it is preserved fully as it is considered by the full U.S. House of Representatives." Below is a list of highlights of funding levels and other key provisions in the Military Construction, Veterans Affairs Bill: BACKGROUND & BILL HIGHLIGHTS: FY19 Mark: $96.9 billion FY19 OCO: $921 million FY18 Enacted: $92.7 billion FY18 OCO: $638 million MILCON/VA IN GEORGIA: Army $99 million for the Cyber Center of Excellence at Fort Gordon Navy / Marine Corps $13.6 million for the Fort Benning Naval Reserve Training Center $33 million for the Marine Corps Logistics Base – Albany, GA Welding and Body Repair Shop MILITARY CONSTRUCTION FUNDING: Funding Levels: The bill provides a total of $10.3 billion for military construction projects – an increase of $241 million, or 2.4 percent, above the enacted fiscal year 2018 level. Overseas Contingency Operations (OCO): In addition to this amount, $921.4 million is provided in OCO funding for projects in countries with ongoing U.S. operations and the European Deterrence Initiative. Military Family Housing: The bill provides $1.6 billion to fund construction, operation, and maintenance of military family housing for fiscal year 2019. Which is $173 million over the enacted levels. Guard and Reserve Facilities: The bill includes $467 million for construction or alteration of Guard and Reserve facilities in 20 states and territories, the same as the budget request. Department of Defense (DOD) Education Facilities: The bill includes $368 million for essential safety improvements and infrastructure work at four DOD Education Activities facilities located within the U.S. and overseas. VETERANS AFFAIRS: Funding Levels: The legislation includes a total of $194.5 billion in both discretionary and mandatory funding for VA, an increase of $9 billion above the fiscal year 2018 level. Discretionary funding alone for VA programs in the bill totals $85.3 billion, an increase of $3.9 billion above the fiscal year 2018 level. Claims Backlog: Reducing the disability claims backlog is essential to ensuring adequate compensation and care for the more than 450,000 veterans still wading through the VA bureaucracy to get a final decision on their claims. The bill will help speed this process and get these veterans the decisions they are awaiting by providing $53 million above the request for the Veterans Benefits Administration, and $14 million above the 2018 level for the Board of Veterans Appeals, to be used for hiring additional claims and appellate staff, digital scanning of health records, and overtime pay. VA Electronic Health Record System: The bill contains $1.2 billion for the new VA electronic health record system. This will ensure the implementation of the contract creating an electronic record system for VA that is identical to one being developed for DOD.
05.08.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) delivered the following statement yesterday evening on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives encouraging the passage of the Veterans Cemetery Benefit Correction Act (H.R. 4910). The legislation, which he introduced with Congressman Austin Scott (GA-08) on January 30, 2018, seeks to correct a technical error that limits access to burial benefits for veterans buried in cemeteries under the jurisdiction of the National Park Service, instead of the Department of Veterans Affairs. Following Congressman Bishop’s statement, the legislation was approved by the full U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 388 to 0. Below is Congressman Bishop’s full statement as prepared: -- Mr. Bishop of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to encourage my colleagues to support H.R. 4910, the Veterans Cemetery Benefit Correction Act. I joined my fellow Georgia Congressman Austin Scott to introduce this bipartisan legislation to ensure our veteran families receive the benefits that they have earned. The Andersonville Cemetery, which is one of the two remaining National Park Service Cemeteries, has a very interesting and unique history. Andersonville was a site of a civil war prisoner of war camp, and interestingly enough, it held prisoners of war for both the Union and the Confederates. Unfortunately, because of the unsanitary conditions, thousands of veterans, both union and confederate, died at Andersonville. And of course, in more recent years, Andersonville has been designated as the National Prisoner of War Memorial for our country, and we erected and funded the National Prisoner of War Museum, which is located on the grounds of Andersonville. The facilities there are controlled fully by the National Park Service. Currently, when veterans are buried in a federal cemetery outside the jurisdiction of the VA, a number of our veteran’s families are left to pay the burial costs that typically would be afforded to them under most other circumstances. The current law requires that, when a veteran is buried in a national cemetery under the control of the National Cemetery Administration, the VA will provide an outer burial receptacle – known in other terms as a grave liner – or provide reimbursement to the family for purchase. However, the current law inexplicably excludes national cemeteries under the control of the National Park Service. The Andersonville National Cemetery, located in my district, is one of the two remaining national cemeteries controlled by the National Park Service. I implore that Congress act to correct this oversight and ensure veterans and their families are provided all the benefits to which they are entitled, not only for my district but for all our veterans and their families who have selflessly served our country. I applaud Senator Isakson’s successful effort to push this legislation through the Senate under unanimous consent. It is now time for the House to take action. By voting for this legislation, we can fix this oversight and ensure all veterans and their families are provided appropriate benefits at all our federal cemeteries. With that, I thank the gentleman for the time, and I yield back the balance of my time.
04.25.2018	ALBANY, GA – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) is pleased to announce that the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has approved $300,000 in two competitive Brownfields Assessment Grants to the City of Albany. “I thank the EPA for its attention and dedication to the Albany community,” said Congressman Bishop. “These grants will help revitalize the City of Albany, which is still recovering from last year’s storms and tornadoes, by supporting the assessment of contaminated properties in the area. This is a vital and underappreciated function of the EPA, and I look forward to seeing this cleanup process realized.” The EPA’s Brownfields Programs provides states and localities with resources to assess and safely remediate and redevelop properties that have been impacted by the presence of hazardous substances, pollutants, or other contaminants. The grants include a $200,000 community-wide hazardous substances grant and a $100,000 petroleum grant. The grants will be used to conduct 12 Phase I and five Phase II environmental site assessments across the City of Albany, as well as to develop four reuse plans and a community involvement plan and associated activities. Additional information on EPA’s Brownfields Program can be found here.
04.24.2018	ALBANY, GA – On Friday, April 27, 2018 Congressman Sanford D. Bishop Jr. (GA-02) will announce the winners of the 2018 Congressional Art Competition at 5:00 PM at the Albany Museum of Art. Each spring, the Congressional Institute sponsors a nationwide high school visual art competition to recognize and encourage artistic talent in the nation and in each congressional district. The competition provides an opportunity for members of Congress to encourage and recognize the artistic talents of their young constituents. The winner of this year’s competition will have his or her artwork displayed for one year in the Cannon Tunnel, a busy underground walkway to the U.S. Capitol from the House office buildings. WHAT: 37th Annual Congressional Art Competition WHO: Congressman Sanford D. Bishop Jr. (GA-02) Participants of the 2018 Congressional Art Competition The Public WHEN: FRIDAY, April 27, 2018 START: 5:00 PM WHERE: Albany Museum of Art 311 Meadowlark Drive Albany, GA 31707
04.23.2018	Columbus, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement in response to NCR’s announced closure of two manufacturing facilities in Columbus, GA. “I am saddened to learn of NCR’s planned closure of two manufacturing facilities in the Columbus area, as part of their shift away from hardware manufacturing. My office stands ready to assist impacted workers and ensure they have access to relevant federal, state, and local resources and job training programs.” Contact: Jonathan Black, (202) 225-3631 (Media Inquiries) Columbus District Office, (706) 320-9477 (Constituent Assistance)
04.19.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Ranking Member of the U.S. House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, authored a letter to U.S. Trade Representative Robert E. Lighthizer urging him to take action to address China’s recently announced agricultural tariffs. In the letter, Congressman Bishop noted recent successes that have helped expand agricultural exports into China that are now in jeopardy due to China’s recently announced agricultural tariffs on more than 200 U.S. products, including pecans, cotton, and soybeans. Congressman Bishop specifically urged the U.S. Trade Representative to assess the wide-ranging impacts these tariffs will have on America and to work with the administration and China to lower China’s import tariffs in order to bring back stability to our producers and local economies. The full text of the letter can be found below: April 19, 2018 The Honorable Robert E. Lighthizer United States Trade Representative 600 17th Street, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20508 Dear Ambassador Lighthizer: I am writing with regards to recent progress that has helped open China’s borders to American agricultural products. As a Member of Congress from one of the largest agricultural-producing states, I have witnessed how low import tariffs encourage trade and promote job growth here at home. That is why I am concerned about China’s announcements to increase tariffs on more than 200 U.S. products. I fear our farmers, low income families, and rural communities will bear the brunt of the consequences. While I remain optimistic about long-term success, I am worried these tariffs will reverse the progress we have made. The success of pecans is an example of how advantageous trade policies can boost industries and spur investment. Just over three years ago, the import tariff on in-shell and shelled pecans was 24 percent. At the end of last year, it was just 7 percent. This dramatic decline was a win for the country, the state of Georgia, and the pecan industry. As a result, 2017 was a record year for pecans in terms of production and exports. Proudly, Georgia accounted for over 40 percent of total U.S. pecan production. In total, the U.S. exported 30,551 metric tons valued at $197,298,000. Clearly there is an expanding international market for pecans and the tariffs are an unnecessary setback. The tariffs are also a setback for our local economies. America’s middle class, especially in Georgia where one in seven people work in agriculture, will feel the ripple effect. In 2016, according to the United Sates Department of Agriculture Economic Research Service, the agriculture and food sectors were responsible for more than 21 million full and part time jobs. From reduced wages to agricultural job scarcity these tariffs threaten rural America which is still struggling to recover from the recession. In America, farmers, ranches, and agricultural leaders have never been stronger or more productive. Now is not the time to constrain their success and growth. When we remove barriers and make it easier for our producers to compete globally, like in the case of pecans, everybody wins. Unfortunately, this is a time of uncertainty. I urge you to assess the wide-ranging impacts these tariffs will have on America and work with the Administration and China to lower import tariffs to bring back stability to our producers and local economies. With warmest personal regards, I remain Sincerely, Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. Member of Congress
04.16.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Ranking Member of the U.S. House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, released the following statement concerning the proposed 2018 Farm Bill put forth last Thursday by the U.S. House Agriculture Committee: “As a Member of Congress representing both rural and urban communities, the Farm Bill is of vital importance to me and my constituents. It provides certainty and support to the farmers that feed our nation and world, and provides dignity and sustenance to our most vulnerable citizens, particularly our students and seniors, through food nutrition programs. “Many aspects of the Farm Bill have broad, bipartisan support. However, I have significant concerns about the proposed reforms to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP). This program is widely considered an efficient and successful safety net that offers desperately needed support to those in need. More than 57,000 households in my district receive SNAP benefits, which is the highest number in the state of Georgia. Nationwide, 42 million people rely on SNAP. We live in the most prosperous nation in the history of the world, and no one should go hungry, lack access to fresh fruits and vegetables, or worry where their next meal is coming from. Reforms that would shame those that receive SNAP benefits or limit the ability of vulnerable citizens to receive the nutrition they need to survive would be major step backwards for our country. We must also focus on addressing the challenge of food deserts, which would likely be exacerbated by these proposed reforms. “U.S. House Agriculture Committee Chairman Mike Conaway has acknowledged that this legislation is a work in progress. Accordingly, I look forward to an open, honest, and holistic approach that respects all who rely on the Farm Bill’s programs for a level of stability. “As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, which provides annual funding to the programs authorized in the Farm Bill, I will be closely analyzing the text and will work closely with the House Agriculture Committee and the rest of my colleagues in the U.S. Congress to ensure the enactment of an equitable and effective Farm Bill. The text of the 2018 Farm Bill, as proposed by the U.S. House Agriculture Committee, can be found here.
04.10.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) is pleased to announce that the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) has allocated $64.9 million to Georgia to help with the recovery from the storms, hurricanes, and tornadoes that struck the state in 2017. These funds are provided by HUD’s Community Development Block Grant, Disaster Recovery (CDBG-DR) program, which helps fund the repair of damaged housing, businesses, and infrastructure from major natural disasters. Earlier in the year, Congressman Bishop included language in the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018 (Pub.L. 115-119) which ensured that the CDBG-DR program was provided adequate funding and direction to help impacted areas. “I applaud Secretary Carson and his staff at HUD for their commitment to those areas impacted by the devastating storms, tornadoes, and hurricanes that struck our country in 2017,” said Congressman Bishop. “Middle and Southwest Georgia suffered heavy losses after being struck by a series of natural disasters throughout last year, and there remain substantial unmet recovery needs, particularly in Dougherty County. I am confident that the funding from the Community Development Block Grant, Disaster Recovery program will be a boon for the region as it continues to rebuild.” Middle and Southwest Georgia were issued emergency disaster declarations following storms and tornadoes that struck the state of Georgia in January 2017, causing substantial damage throughout the region. Later in the year, the area was also struck by Hurricanes Maria and Irma, causing further damage in the area. In conjunction with the support from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), the CDBG-DR funding from HUD will provide substantial recovery assistance toward meeting unmet housing and business needs, as well as mitigation assistance to protect the area from damage from future storms. HUD’s official award announcement can be found here, and additional information on HUD’s CDBG-DR program can be found here.
04.04.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement in solemn recognition of the 50th anniversary of the death of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. “Fifty years ago, we lost one of our nation’s most valiant and respected leaders, Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. In view of what is going on in the world today: division, unrest, and distrust here in the United States and across the globe, there is no better time than today to pause, reflect, and honor the life of Dr. King. “Dr. King once stated that life's most persistent and urgent question is, 'What are you doing for others?' While some labeled him as an instigator at the time, others rightfully saw him as a true visionary for civil rights, who advocated for inclusion, equality, and unity using a non-violence approach. “Let us remember, today and always, to have respect and compassion for one another as we honor Dr. King’s efforts to form a more perfect union.” Morehouse College’s Glee Club, of which Congressman Bishop was a member, performing at the funeral of Dr. King.
03.30.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) ), a senior member of the U.S. House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies and Co-Chair of the Congressional Military Family Caucus, released the following statement concerning the firing of Department of Veterans Affairs Secretary David Shulkin: “I would like to thank VA Secretary David Shulkin for his service on behalf of our nation’s veterans, as both the Secretary of Veterans Affairs and Under Secretary of Veterans Affairs for Health. “During this transition period, we must be focused on providing our nation’s veterans with the highest level of quality services. We must not let uncertainty and political disagreement distract from our duties to our veterans, and I stand ready and willing to work collaboratively with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to ensure uninterrupted continuity of care.”
03.23.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Ranking Member of the U.S. House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, released the following statement on the passage of the Fiscal Year (FY) 2018 Omnibus Appropriations bill by the U.S. House of Representatives. The bipartisan measure was approved yesterday by the full House by a vote of 256 to 167. Congressman Bishop supported the bill. “Although Congress should have wrapped up its Fiscal Year 2018 spending bills six months ago and not relied on continuing resolutions to fund the government, I am pleased that we now can provide federal agencies and programs with the certainty they need to carry out their missions until the end of September. “The bill makes much needed investments in our national defense by providing a much-needed 2.4% pay raise for our service members. It includes funding to construct a Combat Vehicle Warehouse for Marine Corps Logistics Base in Albany, which will replace a facility that was destroyed by the devastating storms last year. It also provides for the construction of a new Air Traffic Support Tower for Lawson Army Airfield at Fort Benning to enhance capabilities at the base. Additionally, the bill fully funds the Joint Surveillance Target Attack Radar System (J-STARS), which is housed at Robins Air Force Base. “The funding package provides $1.4 billion for the military family housing program, which currently serves nearly 1.4 million military families. Additionally, Impact Aid, which assists local school districts that have lost property tax revenue due to the presence of tax-exempt federal property, is funded at $1.4 billion, an increase of $86 million. “It also provides our veterans with a $7 billion increase to address health care needs, and addresses the disability claim backlog with a $54 million increase to be used for hiring additional claims processing staff. “The Omnibus legislation bolsters vital non-defense programs as well, including Head Start, Job Corps, and child care. It addresses the ongoing opioid crisis with prevention, treatment, research, and behavioral health workforce training, and provides the National Institutes of Health (NIH) with a $3 billion increase to promote medical research into cures for cancer, diabetes, and other diseases. “As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, I am pleased that the Omnibus provides an additional $1.1 billion in new infrastructure spending on agriculture, including $600 million for a rural broadband pilot program to assist in further closing the digital divide. “It includes much needed food security for our most vulnerable citizens, including $17.9 billion for the school lunch and breakfast programs, and $6.175 billion for the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC). “The bill also includes a number of beneficial provisions that I was able to secure on behalf of our nation's rural communities. These provisions include $15 million to assist pecan farmers, who were previously shut out from disaster assistance after last year’s storms. Also included is $1.25 million for research into the Whitefly epidemic, which is severely impacting vegetable and cotton production in the Southeastern United States. At my urging, Congress is directing the Agriculture Research Service (ARS) and National Institute of Food and Agriculture (NIFA) to work with land-grant universities, including the University of Georgia and Fort Valley State University, to develop an action plan to solve this issue. The Omnibus includes all 12 appropriations bills and provides discretionary funding through the remainder of FY2018 for all governmental agencies and programs. Additional information regarding the Agriculture section of the FY2018 omnibus can be found here. Additional information on the whole FY2018 omnibus appropriations bill can be found here. ###
03.20.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce presented its Spirit of Enterprise Award to Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (D-GA) in recognition of his support of pro-growth policies during the 1st Session of the 115th Congress. “I accept the U.S. Chamber of Commerce’s Spirit of Enterprise Award with great pleasure and with pride in the work that we have done to foster the success of our businesses, small and large,” said Congressman Bishop. “I have always been an advocate for the entrepreneurs who fuel America’s commerce, in particular the women and men who build their ventures with sheer will and perseverance, and I look forward to continuing to work with the Chamber of Commerce to ensure successful entrepreneurship remains an achievable goal.” Congressman Bishop has long served as a champion for both the business community in Georgia and the nation. The Chamber’s Spirit of Enterprise Award is given annually to members of Congress based on rankings it gives for key business votes outlined in its yearly publication How They Voted. These designated key votes are recorded floor votes on issues established as priorities on which the Chamber communicates its position prior to the vote. Those members of Congress who support the Chamber’s position on at least 70% of those votes receive the award. The U.S. Chamber is the world’s largest business federation representing more than 3 million businesses of every size, sector, and region.
03.19.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) issued the following statement concerning the passing of Congresswoman Louise Slaughter: “I am deeply saddened to learn of the passing of my friend and colleague, Congresswoman Louise Slaughter. She was a committed advocate for upstate New York and a true pioneer for women in politics and beyond. “As Chairman and Ranking Member of the House Rules Committee, she had a direct and profound impact on the direction and priorities of Congress. It was a responsibility she took seriously and one that she carried out with passion and thoughtful intensity. “She was a champion for her district and for our country as a whole. She will truly be missed, and my most heartfelt prayers go out to her family during this difficult time of loss.” Congresswoman Slaughter passed away Friday, March 16, 2018 at the age of 88. A former microbiologist, she has served in Congress since 1986, representing Rochester and the surrounding area in upstate New York. She was the first woman to lead the House Rules Committee.
03.16.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, delivered the following opening statement yesterday during the subcommittee’s hearing on the Office of Inspector General at the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s (USDA). Video and background on the subcommittee hearing can be found here. Hearing witnesses included: Phyllis K. Fong, Office of the Inspector General, U.S. Department of Agriculture Gil H. Harden, Assistant Inspector General for Audit, U.S. Department of Agriculture Ann Coffey, Assistant Inspector General for Investigations, U.S. Department of Agriculture. Below is Congressman Bishop’s full statement as prepared: Thank you Mr. Chairman. I would like to welcome you all this afternoon, Ms. Fong, Mr. Harden and Ms. Coffey. Thank you for appearing before us again. This is a very distinguished panel and, judging by the many years you have collectively served in the USDA Office of Inspector General, it is evident that you find your work rewarding. The high quality of your work has been repeatedly recognized, most recently last year when your IG colleagues gave you awards for your audit of SNAP Administrative Costs and the U.S. Meat Animal Research Center that will hopefully lead to better treatment of animals at that facility and more transparency. Congratulations to your office. As I mentioned last week in our CFTC hearing, we are again in an odd situation, budget-wise, at the moment, with the 2018 bills not finished and a disappointing budget request for 2019. But I appreciate this committee’s focus. We always get the job done and this year will be no exception. I have an abiding interest in your work. We must do everything we can to root out fraud, abuse and mismanagement. In a number of cases, states and local governments actually administer programs on behalf of the federal government. But like their federal partners, their budgets are very tight, and they struggle with staffing and training. We rely on inspectors general to conduct audits and investigations to ensure the programs we fund are run efficiently and that concerns are addressed in a timely manner. In your FY 2018 Annual Plan, you state that you have a goal to recruit, develop, and maintain a highly qualitied diverse workforce. That is why I’m particularly concerned about the proposed 10% cut to your office, including 50 staff years, this year. In addition to USDA programs, I want to ensure that Civil Rights issues are getting thoughtful and appropriate attention throughout the USDA. I look forward to discussing that with you, as well as other important issues. Thank you again, Mr. Chairman.
03.08.2018	ALBANY, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) invited high school students from Middle and Southwest Georgia’s 2nd Congressional District to participate in the 37th Annual Congressional Art Competition. "I am excited to announce that my office is now accepting entries for this year’s Congressional Art Competition,” said Congressman Bishop. “This competition is a tremendous opportunity to showcase the considerable artistic talent of Georgia’s 2nd Congressional District’s high school students, and I am eager to see this year’s entries!" All participants will be invited to attend a reception at the Albany Museum of Art, located at 311 Meadowlark Dr., Albany, GA 31707, on Friday, April 27, 2018 at 5:00pm where all submissions will be on display and a winner will be announced. Additionally, all submitted artwork will be on display at the museum during the week of April 16 – 27 for public viewing. The winner of this year’s competition will have his or her artwork displayed for one year in the Cannon Tunnel, a busy underground walkway to the U.S. Capitol from the House office buildings and will have the unique opportunity to join Congressman Bishop at a national awards reception in Washington, D.C. All artwork must be submitted to Congressman Sanford D. Bishop’s Office at 235 West Roosevelt Avenue, Suite 114 in Albany, Georgia no later than April 13, 2018. The official competition rules can be found here. For more information, please contact Toni Pickel in the Albany District Office by email at toni.pickel@mail.house.gov or by phone at 229-439-8067.
03.06.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Ranking Member of the U.S. House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, applauds U.S. Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue for his announcement on Saturday that the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) will expand the Cotton Ginning Cost Share program to cover the 2016 crop year. “The expansion of the Cotton Ginning Cost Share program, in addition to the cotton provisions included in the recent disaster bill, will provide much needed stability to cotton growers in Georgia and across the nation,” said Congressman Bishop. “I commend USDA, as well as my colleagues in Congress, for stepping up to the plate on this issue. This program has a proven record of success, and I thank Secretary Perdue for his leadership and commitment to the nation’s agricultural community.” The federal Cotton Ginning Cost Share Program operated under the previous administration for the 2015 crop year, while the new program will apply for the 2016 crop year. Through the new Cotton Ginning Cost Share program, eligible producers received a cost share payment for their gin costs, based on acreage, multiplied by 20 percent of the average ginning cost for each production region. Administered by USDA’s Farm Service Agency (FSA), the program has already demonstrated itself to be an effective tool in stabilizing cotton prices and providing relief to farmers and the assorted manufacturers and consumers that rely on cotton. The sign-up period for the Cotton Ginning Cost Share program will run from March 12, 2018 through May 11, 2018. Additional information on the program can be found here. Farmers can find their local FSA office here. Congressman Bishop has been a consistent champion for the Cotton Ginning Cost Share program. Last July, he authored a letter with other congressional agriculture leaders urging the programs expansion. Full text of the letter can be found here. Congressman Bishop also spearheaded language in last month’s disaster assistance bill naming cotton seed as commodity, making it eligible for Title I Agriculture Risk Coverage and Price Loss Coverage programs. ###
02.26.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – The U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) launched a new website highlighting available resources to assist rural communities responding to the ongoing opioid crisis. The new website can be found here (www.usda.gov/topics/opioids). The intent of the website is to provide rural leaders with resources, information, and best practices to respond to and manage the opioid crisis, which claimed over 42,000 lives in 2016. In particular, the website highlights three USDA programs that may assist rural communities in combating the opioid epidemic: The Community Facilities Loan and Grant Program (CF): These loans and grants can be used to build, renovate, equip, or rehabilitate essential community facilities such as hospitals, mental health clinics, withdrawal centers, educational facilities, and more. To learn more about this program, contact USDA Distance Learning and Telemedicine Program staff at dltinfo@wdc.usda.gov. The Distance Learning & Telemedicine Grants Program (DLT): These grants can be used to purchase and install equipment that uses broadband to help rural communities remotely connect to educational and health care services. Telemedicine can help rural health care facilities access and provide specialized treatment for patients in need. To learn more about this program, contact your local state USDA Rural Development office. The Rural Health and Safety Education Competitive Grants Program (RHSE): These grants are for projects that develop or implement individual and family health education programs that help rural communities address significant health issues. Education programs specializing in prevention and reduction of opioid abuse in rural communities are given priority for funding. To learn more about this program, visit the National Institute of Food and Agriculture website. The website also provides case studies, best practices, and a list of other agency resources that may be available to impacted communities.
02.14.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (D-GA) released the following statement regarding the White House’s Budget Request for Fiscal Year (FY) 2019. “On Monday, the President released his FY 2019 Budget Request. Similar to last year, it proposes increases to defense spending at the expense of vital domestic programs. Having a better equipped and more prepared military is integral to our national defense; however, we must prioritize both our non-defense and defense needs. “Presidential Budget Requests are a statement of values and priories. President Trump had promised to reduce the deficit, but the truth is this budget, in addition to the new tax law, dramatically increases deficits over the next decade. “As Ranking Member of the appropriations subcommittee that oversees the U.S. Department of Agriculture, I am deeply concerned with the proposed cuts and program eliminations that would adversely impact farmers, rural communities, and those in need of government assistance. The White House proposes a 16 percent decrease from the 2017 enacted level, a cut of $3.7 billion. “The White House Budget Request also seeks to significantly cut and restructure the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) program. Under the White House’s proposal, SNAP would face cuts of $214 billion over the next 10 years. Furthermore, the White House’s proposal would eliminate family nutritional choice, and instead mandate government-picked food boxes for SNAP recipients. I have significant concerns over the logistics of such a program, and its ability to cater to individualized nutritional and health requirements. Furthermore, socializing food choice would take away business from local grocery stores and further contribute to the prevalence of food deserts in low income communities. As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, I look forward to conducting a careful examination of the potential impacts of this proposal. “Fortunately, this is just beginning of the FY 2019 budget process. Last week I voted for, and Congress passed, a budget deal that will provide federal agencies the stability and certainty they need to effectively fulfill their missions. The power of the purse ultimately lies with the Congress, and as a member of the House Appropriations Committee, I look forward to working with my colleagues to enact a budget that is both responsible and fair for all Americans.”
02.09.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (D-GA) released the following statement regarding his support of the two-year budget agreement that passed the House and was signed into law this morning. The budget agreement passed the House by a vote of 240 to 186. It passed the Senate earlier in the morning by a vote of 71 to 28. “This budget agreement is a major bipartisan step in ensuring our military, federal agencies, communities, retirees, businesses, and workers are provided the certainty and resources they need. “This legislation includes $90 billion in disaster assistance for communities impacted by storms, tornadoes, hurricanes, wildfires, and flooding. It provides an additional $160 billion over two years to modernize our armed services and recover from the maintenance and training shortfalls that have been caused by years of sequestration. “Our non-defense agencies are provided approximately $128 billion in additional resources as well. These additional resources will support our veterans’ health programs and provide much needed investment in agriculture, student aid, job training, economic development, and housing assistance. These non-defense programs directly support our nation’s economic and social vibrancy. They support the health, education, and nutrition of our citizens, and our service members. “Specifically, the legislation: Extends the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) for 10 years, four more than the extension recently enacted, Closes the Medicare Part D ‘donut hole’ in 2019, which will lower costs for seniors by reducing the coverage gap for prescription drugs, Provides $20 billion for infrastructure over two years, including for roads and drinking water, Provides $6 billion to combat opioid abuse and improve mental health, $2 billion for research at the National Institutes of Health (NIH), and $4 billion for college affordability, Includes a two-year extension of expired Community Health Centers funding, and Suspends the federal debt ceiling until March 2019. “The agreement also includes provisions of importance for the agriculture community. I am especially pleased the bill includes my provisions that finally identify cotton seed as a named commodity. This important designation means cotton seed can now be eligible for Title I Agriculture Risk Coverage and Price Loss Coverage programs. This has been a major priority for the cotton industry for several years now, and this designation will go a long way in assisting with agricultural recovery efforts. “I applaud both chambers of Congress for coming together on this bipartisan agreement, and look forward to its implementation through the regular appropriations process in the upcoming years.” ###
02.05.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue, in accordance with Section 321(a) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act, sent a letter on February 2, 2018 designating Seminole County and Grady County in Georgia’s Second Congressional District as contiguous disaster areas. The designation follows a review of crop losses caused by Hurricane Irma, which struck the region during September 9-12, 2017. The designation as a contiguous disaster area opens up eligibility for certain types of disaster loan assistance. The main disaster assistance program triggered by this designation is consideration for low-interest emergency loans. This designation also triggers access to the Disaster Set-Aside (DSA) program, which enables producers with a direct loan from the Farm Service Agency (FSA) to move one annual payment to the end of the loan if the producers are not able to make their payments on schedule. Background on USDA’s disaster assistance programs can be found here. A copy of Secretary Perdue’s designation letter can be found here. Any determinations concerning eligibility for any USDA programs will need to be made by USDA. Farmers can find contact information for their local USDA FSA Office here.
02.02.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement in recognition of Black History Month, which is celebrated during the month of February to recognize contributions that African Americans have made to American culture and society: “Since its official designation in 1976, Black History Month has been reserved as a time to honor the momentous accomplishments, courageous strides, and lasting impacts that African Americans have had on America’s history. “Throughout our nation’s history, African Americans like Frederick Douglass, Crispus Attucks, and The Tuskegee Airmen fought tirelessly to obtain and defend our freedom. These courageous heroes used their strength to push past any obstacle no matter how adverse. “During a time when African Americans were not seen as equals, leaders such as Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., Dorothy Height, and Asa Phillip Randolph worked tirelessly to promote racial tolerance, unity, and equality among all races, and even when their efforts were ignored and their names were defamed, they remained resilient and committed to the cause of equity and fairness. “Harriet Tubman once said, ‘Remember, within you is the strength, the patience, and the passion to reach for the stars and change the world.’ African Americans have played an integral part in shaping America and their sacrifices are imprinted throughout history. The African American community’s intrinsic strength, resilience, and resolute faith during hardship serves as motivation in a time when so many people all over the world are faced with similar trials and tribulations.”
01.31.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement in response to President Trump’s State of the Union address to a joint session of Congress. “The President talks of bipartisanship, and I am truly hopeful that this talk is genuine. However, actions speak louder than words, and the President’s actions thus far have been hurtful and divisive. I hope his rhetoric tonight will be followed by a new spirit of bipartisan, bicameral cooperation that benefits all Americans.”
01.30.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement concerning the announcement by House Appropriations Committee Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen that he will retire at the end of this session of Congress. “Since 2003, I have had the pleasure and honor of serving with Rodney Frelinghuysen on the House Appropriations Committee, including a number of years on the Defense Subcommittee. He has been a steadfast, moderate voice in our chamber. “As Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, he has strived to build consensus among his committee members. It is a difficult job, but one that he has carried out equitably and effectively. “His retirement will be a tremendous loss for the U.S. Congress, the people of New Jersey, and the nation at large. I thank him for his service and look forward to our continued work together through the close of 2018.”
01.23.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) is proud to announce that, in partnership with the federal government, the Georgia Environmental Finance Authority (GEFA) has awarded loans totaling $18.9 million to three communities in Georgia’s 2nd Congressional District. These federally-supported loans will finance infrastructure improvements for water, sewer, and filtration systems throughout the region. “Many often do not realize the role the federal government, and the EPA, have in financing the water infrastructure necessary to build up our communities and ensure access to clean drinking water,” said Congressman Bishop. “I applaud this federal partnership with the Georgia Environmental Finance Authority, which supports needed improvements to sewers, pump stations, water meters, and filtration systems throughout Middle and Southwest Georgia.” The City of Albany was awarded a $15,000,000 Clean Water State Revolving Fund loan for the rehabilitation of the westside and eastside interceptor sewers. The project will prevent line failures of the reinforced concrete sewer pipe and prevent spills into the Flint River. The City of Ellaville was awarded a $501,000 Drinking Water State Revolving Fund loan for the replacement of water meters with an automatic meter reading (AMR) system. This will reduce water loss, enhance system reliability, and lower operation and maintenance costs. Schley County Utilities Authority was also awarded a $406,000 Drinking Water State Revolving Fund loan for the installation of a filtration system at the Goolsby-Stevens Road well. This will improve overall water quality for the Schley County community. In a partnership between the EPA and Georgia Environmental Finance Authority, the Clean Water State Revolving Fund and Drinking Water State Revolving Fund combine federal funding with state and local support for projects that support health-related water supply and water conservation projects, water quality improvements, conservation, wastewater treatment, as well as repairs to sewer and storm water projects. Congress established the Clean Water State Revolving Fund in 1987, and it has provided over $65 billion in assistance for water infrastructure projects since its establishment. The Drinking Water State Revolving Fund was established by Congress in 1996. Congress has appropriated the program approximately $20 billion since its establishment, supporting over 12,400 projects. The Georgia Environmental Finance Authority has funded more than 1,600 projects and provided more than $3.7 billion in loans for water, solid waste, and sewer improvements since 1985. For the full list of communities awarded infrastructure loans, click here. For more information on available loans and how to apply, visit GEFA’s website.
01.22.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) is pleased to announce that the Rural Development agency of the U.S. Department of Agriculture has awarded a $310,950 Distance Learning and Telemedicine Grant for Augusta University Research Institute to implement an Emergency Telehealth network in rural Georgia. Congressman Bishop spearheaded the creation of a telehealth network with language in the FY2017 Omnibus Appropriations bill (Public Law 115-31). “The field of telehealth has the potential to revolutionize our rural healthcare system,” said Congressman Bishop. “This emergency telehealth network will connect emergency rooms, allowing for increased coordination, cooperation, and efficiency. This will improve patient outcomes, as well as lower healthcare costs. I look forward to Augusta University’s implementation of this noble project, and I applaud the Rural Development agency’s continued commitment to Rural America.” “Residents of rural communities often lack sufficient access to health care services and specialized treatments, with no other option than to travel long distances to Augusta or forego treatment completely,” said Augusta University President Brooks A. Keel. “Augusta University can now offer these residents access to the most specialized care without ever leaving their community hospital, with a new a telemedicine network where patients and providers in rural communities can interact in real-time with physicians at Augusta University’s health system to diagnose and treat life-threatening conditions and chronic diseases. We’re grateful to Rep. Bishop and our state leaders for their support in addressing our state’s rural health care challenges.” Augusta University will act as the hub for the Emergency Telehealth network, which will serve five end-user sites, including Miller County Hospital, Crisp Regional Health Services, Emanuel Medical Center, Washington County Regional Medical Center, and Wills Memorial Hospital. The project will provide direct two-way links between emergency rooms at the various sites, as well as supply EKG machines, ultrasounds systems, video laryngoscopes, and digital stethoscopes. Congressman Bishop’s language in the FY2017 Omnibus Appropriations bill (Public Law 115-31) directed that distance learning and telemedicine grants be used to provide for upgrades to the equipment and facilities of ambulances, and other emergency transportation vehicles, and to medical facilities, such as hospital and community health centers. Augusta University is also supplying $57,551 in its own funding for the Emergency Telehealth network.
01.22.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (D-GA) released the following statement regarding his support of legislation reopening the government. The bill passed the full U.S. House of Representatives in a vote of 266 to 150. “The shutdown has shocked everyone to the reality of our nation’s dire funding situation. I am relieved that both chambers of Congress have come to a bipartisan agreement to reopen the government. The agreed-upon framework provides a plausible pathway for completing a long-term funding bill, which is desperately needed to provide certainty to families, businesses, agencies, communities, and our armed forces. "As Defense Secretary James Mattis stated last week: ‘No enemy in the field has done more to harm the readiness of the U.S. military than the combined impact of the Budget Control Act’s defense spending cuts worsened by us operating nine of the last 10 years under Continuing Resolutions – wasting copious amounts of precious taxpayer dollars.’ “More military members died in training accidents last year than in combat. This underscores the alarming state of training and maintenance caused by years of budgetary neglect. “Funding the armed forces through stop-gap measures puts severe pressure on efforts to fix training and maintenance shortfalls and endangers our troops, such as those killed during recent sea and aviation accidents. “Today’s agreement provides Congress the opportunity to set aside partisan brinkmanship, and to instead work together on a comprehensive funding measure that modernizes our defense capabilities, adequately resources the VA and its medical programs, provides adequate disaster assistance for communities rebuilding from recent storms, hurricanes, and fires,fully funds vital health programs including CHIP and Community Health Centers, reforms our immigration system, and invests in our infrastructure, economic development, education, and research. “Although there remain a number of details to work out, it is better to work through these issues with the government open than with it closed. It is now time to responsibly follow through on this agreement and end our reliance on short-term budgetary fixes.”
01.18.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop Jr. (GA-02), is pleased to announce that the Rural Development agency of the U.S. Department of Agriculture has approved a $62,979 Housing Preservation Grant for the Southwest Georgia Regional Commission and a $50,000 Housing Preservation Grant for SW Georgia Community Action. These grants will be used for repair and rehabilitation of single family homes for low and very low income elderly and disabled homeowners in Middle and Southwest Georgia, including Baker, Dougherty, Miller, Mitchell, Terrell, Lee, and Crisp counties in the 2nd Congressional District of Georgia. “These grants will be a lifeline for many of our area’s seniors and disabled homeowners, who are still recovering from last year’s storms,” said Congressman Bishop. “I commend the Rural Development agency for all it does to support our rural communities, and for ensuring our most vulnerable are provided the resources they need to rebuild.” SW Georgia Community is also receiving $50,000 in additional federal funding from the Department of Health and Human Services Weatherization Assistance Program. The Southwest Georgia Regional Commission is receiving $3.3 million in additional assistance from the State of Georgia.
01.18.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (D-GA) released the following statement regarding his opposition to the continuing resolution considered on the House floor earlier tonight. The continuing resolution passed by a vote of 230 to 197. “While I voted for the last short-term continuing resolution, which was supposed to be a temporary measure pending completion of a long term spending bill, I voted against this one. Repeated continuing resolutions will cause further deterioration of our military readiness and military resources. “More military members died in training accidents last year than in combat. This underscores the dire state of training and maintenance caused by years of budgetary neglect. “Funding the armed forces through stop-gap measures puts severe pressure on efforts to fix training and maintenance shortfalls and endangers our troops, such as those killed during recent sea and aviation accidents. “The time is now for both sides to sit down and finalize a long-term funding bill that modernizes our defense capabilities, ensures our service members have adequate resources, fully funds vital health programs including CHIP and Community Health Centers, enacts into law the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program, and provides necessary investments for infrastructure, economic development, education, and research.”
12.21.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (D-GA) released the following statement regarding his support for the disaster assistance bill and the continuing resolution to fund the government. The disaster assistance bill includes $81 billion in assistance for communities impacted by recent storms, fires, hurricanes, and other natural disasters. It passed the House by a vote of 251 to 169. The continuing resolution, which will fund the government through January 19, 2018, passed the House by a vote of 231 to 188. “Although there is more work to be done, the disaster assistance bill and continuing resolution approved in the House today are a step in the right direction. “As part of its $81 billion in support for recovery efforts in communities impacted by recent natural disasters, including Georgia, Texas, Florida, California, Louisiana, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands, the disaster assistance bill provides $3.8 billion for agriculture recovery efforts. “I am especially pleased the bill includes my provisions that finally identify cotton seed as a named commodity. This important designation means cotton seed can now be eligible for Title I Agriculture Risk Coverage and Price Loss Coverage programs, which will go a long way in assisting with recovery efforts. Unfortunately, the supplemental fails to include important reforms I put forward on the Tree Assistance Program (TAP). These reforms would have made TAP more effective and responsive to the needs of orchardists and tree growers, like those in the pecan industry, who sustained damage by natural disasters. However, I am working with Senate colleagues to include these reforms in the Senate version of the bill. “Although the continuing resolution is not a long-term, comprehensive measure, as I would strongly prefer, it includes a much needed extension of the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP). CHIP provides health insurance for 9 million children across the country. Governor Nathan Deal directly reached out to the Georgia delegation to stress the disastrous consequences that would be faced by Georgia’s children if CHIP were not extended. Furthermore, the continuing resolution includes necessary funding for the Veterans Choice Program, which provides additional health care options for our nation's veterans. “I supported the two pieces of legislation passed today due to their essential provisions for our children, veterans, and disaster-impacted communities. It is vital that Congress completes its work when it returns in January and enacts a robust full-year funding measure that provides certainty to families, businesses, agencies, and communities.” Full text of the continuing resolution can be found here. A full summary of the disaster assistance bill can be found here, and complete text can be found here. DISASTER ASSISTANCE BILL HIGHLIGHTS: Package Total: $81 billion President's Request: $44 billion Agriculture Total: $3.8 billion Key language impacting agriculture includes $2.6 billion for agriculture disaster assistance, including those related crop and livestock losses in disaster designated zones: Rural Development $165 million for repairs and mitigation for rural water and waste disposal systems $2 million for technical assistance grants for rural water and waste disposal systems $18.6 million for loans for rehabilitation of damaged USDA multi-family properties Agricultural Research $22 million for repair of damaged Agriculture Research Service buildings and facilities Animal and Plant Health $906 million for Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service Conservation Programs $541 million for watershed and flood prevention efforts Farm Service Programs $1.6 billion for various programs to help American farmers and ranchers implement the 2014 Farm Bill to aid in disaster recovery efforts, and staffs local Farm Service Agency offices $400 million for emergency conservation efforts to mitigate future disaster risks Removes the cap on livestock crop insurance expenses Allows USDA to issue block grants to disaster-affected areas or to provide direct assistance through the Farm Service Agency Food and Nutrition Programs $24 million for the Emergency Food Assistance Program for hurricane and wildfire-affected states and territories Expands 5-state pilot program to address possible duplicate enrollments among SNAP beneficiaries Unfortunately, the third emergency disaster supplemental fails to include a $14 million proposal to rebuild WIC health and wellness clinics in Puerto Rico and U.S. Virgin Islands.
12.19.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) issued the following statement concerning his vote in opposition to H.R. 1, the misguided tax legislation taken up by the House earlier today. This bill will saddle the nation with crippling debt and provide little to no tax relief for thousands of residents of Georgia’s Second Congressional District. The bill was approved by the full House of Representatives in a vote of 227 to 203. It is expected to be considered by the Senate as early as this evening. “Tax reform must make our tax code more equitable, less complex, and not significantly add to the budget deficit. Unfortunately, the tax legislation approved by the House today does not fulfill these requirements: It shifts the tax burden from wealthy taxpayers to middle income families by increasing taxes for 86 million middle income households, while providing 83% of the tax cuts to the wealthiest 1%. It explodes the national debt by $1.7 trillion over the next decade, effectively mortgaging the future of our nation’s children and grandchildren and jeopardizing the fiscal health of vital programs including Social Security and Medicare. It also handicaps the Affordable Care Act, and will lead to the loss of health insurance for 13 million individuals, while raising premiums by 10%. “The House legislation also lowers or eliminates many tax credits and deductions that are relied upon by middle income Georgia families. It (1) repeals personal exemptions, which are relied upon by large families with multiple children and other dependents; (2) eliminates the casualty loss deduction, which helps families rebuild after storms and disaster; (3) caps the deduction for state and local income and sales taxes, as well as property taxes; (4) limits the mortgage interest deduction to under $750,000 of mortgage debt; and (5) ends the Work Opportunity Tax Credit, which is used by employers who hire veterans with a service-connected disability or history of unemployment. “Additionally, the bill repeals the deductibility of donations made to college athletic departments for sport ticket rights. These donations are used to fund women’s and men’s college sports, and repeal of this deduction will lead to the loss of scholarship opportunities for student athletes. “I have stated numerous times that I do support tax relief for Georgia families. However, it needs to be fair, balanced, and fiscally responsible both in the short and the long term. The benefits must be shared among Georgians of all income levels rather than just concentrated at the top. The tax legislation approved by the U.S. House of Representatives today fails this test. “As an institution, we in Congress are at a moment of truth. The time is now to put our political differences aside, and to find common ground on a rational tax package that is fiscally responsible, grows the economy, creates jobs, and improves the lives of all Americans.”
12.08.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (D-GA) released the following statement in response to the House passage of the two week Continuing Resolution (CR). The CR passed the House yesterday by a vote of 235 to 193. “Our responsibility is to keep the government open and working for the people. We should have continued to work to meet the December 8th funding expiration date with a responsible appropriations measure, instead of kicking the can down the road for two more weeks. “Federal agencies and our communities require long-term certainty. There continues to be a number of outstanding issues needing immediate attention, which are not addressed in this two week CR. These items include: Providing disaster assistance to communities that have been impacted by storms, hurricanes, and wildfire, including communities in Southwest and Middle Georgia, Reauthorizing the Children’s Health Insurance Program and Community Health Centers, which provide vital health services for our most vulnerable citizens, Passing the DREAM Act, to protect hardworking individuals that are threatened with deportation despite contributing to the American Dream, Funding the fight against the opioid epidemic, Modernizing our defense capabilities and ensuring our service members have adequate resources on the field, and Raising the draconian budget cap that threatens to starve off much needed investments in agriculture, child and adult health, disease research, infrastructure and community development, Social Security disability, nutrition assistance, before and after school programs, student aid and loan assistance, job training, economic and business development, housing assistance, and scientific and environmental research. “I urge my colleagues to come to the table to finalize a long-term appropriations measure that reflects our priorities and values as Americans and strengthens our country.”
11.29.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, delivered the following opening statement earlier today during the subcommittee’s hearing on the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) role in current disaster recovery efforts. Video and background on the subcommittee hearing can be found here. Hearing witnesses included: Mr. Rob Johansson, Acting Deputy Undersecretary for Farm Production and Conservation at the USDA Mr. Leonard Jordon, Acting Chief for the USDA Natural Resources Conservation Service Mr. Steve Peterson, Acting Administrator, USDA Farm Service Agency Below is Congressman Bishop’s full statement as prepared: Thank you Mr. Chairman and welcome Mr. Johansson, Mr. Jordan, and Mr. Peterson. We all appreciate your being here today. Mr. Chairman, I am very pleased we are having a hearing on USDA’s role in this country’s recovery efforts, which will include discussing the Administration’s third disaster supplemental, as well as USDA’s relevant mandatory programs. USDA has been called upon to help agricultural and rural communities across this nation affected by numerous disasters. This country has suffered from devastating wildfires in the West; tornadoes in Georgia, Texas, Oklahoma, Mississippi, Wisconsin, and Louisiana; and catastrophic hurricanes extending from Texas to Georgia and the Caribbean. Our Nation’s resolve and commitment to take care of its own is being tested, and I, for one, do not want to see us fail. I am sure the Chairman and I are of the same mind in that we are looking forward to working together, along with our distinguished subcommittee colleagues, to ensure that all the needs are met AND that they are met in a timely manner. I am heartened by the statements that many Members have made in reference to the Administration’s first FY18 budget request, agreeing that it was only the beginning of the conversation and not the last word on how we keep this country moving forward in spite of ourselves. I see this supplemental request in the same way—it is only the start of the conversation and, unfortunately, an inadequate one at that. If enacted as is, it would send the wrong message to our fellow citizens, and the members of the world community, about our willingness and ability to care for our own. It would drastically slow down aid to areas hard hit by disasters, needlessly prolonging their misery and suffering, with particularly harsh effects in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. The Administration characterized their request as fully covering damages from Hurricanes Harvey and Irma, while only covering medium-term needs in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands due to Hurricane Maria. However, lawmakers in states affected by Harvey and Irma have spoken out to say that they see this request as inadequate. And I agree! This package does not represent enough of an investment to truly get the recovery efforts in Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands on the track to where they need to be. In Puerto Rico alone, it is said that approximately 40% of the island, like the area of Fajardo, is without power and sufficient water, and I recently heard from the Virgin Islands delegation that only 16% of St. Croix has power. My own home state of Georgia suffered severe damage as Hurricane Irma moved out of Florida and, earlier this year, we led the nation in the number of tornadoes—which is not a record ANY state wants to hold. As many of you have heard me boast before, Georgia is a major agriculture state, with 42,000 farms, now contributing almost $75 billion annually to the state and national economies. It is number one in the nation for the production of poultry, peanuts, pecans, blueberries, and privately owned timberlands. Georgia’s second congressional district, of which I have the extreme honor of representing here in Congress, leads the state in peanuts, cotton, pecans, fruits, and vegetables, as well as family-owned timberlands. Of the 29 counties that I represent, 26 of those are rural, with average populations between 10,000 to 15,000 people. These counties are some of the most economically disadvantaged counties in the state and the nation. They have suffered losses that have yet to be satisfactorily addressed. I am concerned that the package before us will only serve as a drop in the bucket as we enter the repair and rebuild phase following the disasters of 2017. We are now 32 days away from 2018. If 2018 is anything like 2017, and we continue to nickel and dime the country, the road to recovery will be but a dream. Now, what we have jurisdiction over is the USDA portion of the disaster package, which totals around $1 billion. In isolation that sounds like a large number; however, when you look at the damage estimates coming in from the affected states and territories, it pales in comparison to the actual needs on the ground. Mr. Chairman and Mr. Johansson, I am also deeply concerned that we are not seeing any requests regarding how to meet the nutritional needs of disaster victims. As I have said before, there are limits to doing more with less, and you sure cannot try that approach when an emergency hits. That is when this country needs all hands on deck. It appears that the Administration is still having trouble realizing that, but, I assure you, there are a good many Members of the Congress who know it and who are doing all we can to ensure this great nation does not fall by the wayside. It is my hope that this supplemental will see a lot of improvement before it comes before the full U.S. House of Representatives on the House floor. As you can see, we have a lot to discuss today. Mr. Chairman, thank you for the opportunity to welcome our witnesses and to share my concerns. I yield back.
11.17.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) issued the following statement concerning his vote in opposition to the House’s misguided tax legislation, which would saddle the nation with crippling debt and provide little to no tax relief for thousands of residents of Georgia’s Second Congressional District. The bill was approved yesterday by the full House of Representatives in a vote of 227 to 205. “I could not in good conscience vote in support of the tax reform legislation considered yesterday by the U.S. House of Representatives. Tax reform must make our tax code more equitable, less complex, and not significantly add to the budget deficit. Unfortunately, the tax legislation approved by the House yesterday does not fulfill these requirements. It would shift the tax burden from wealthy taxpayers to middle income families by increasing taxes for 36 million middle income households. “The House legislation would lower or eliminate many tax credits and deductions that are relied upon by middle income Georgia families. It would (1) eliminate the deduction for state and local income and sales taxes, and cap the deduction for state property taxes; (2) limit the mortgage interest deduction to under $500,000 of mortgage debt; (3) eliminate the student loan interest deduction, increasing costs for millions of college graduates; (4) abolish the medical expense and dependent care assistance deductions, which are relied upon by millions of families caring for sick and aging relatives; (5) end the Work Opportunity Tax Credit, which is used by employers who hire veterans with a service-connected disability or history of unemployment; (6) repeal personal exemptions, which are relied upon by large families with multiple children and other dependents; and (7) eliminate the casualty loss deduction, which helps families rebuild after storms and disaster. “The legislation would also eliminate tax deductions for teachers purchasing school supplies for their students, while permitting similar deductions for companies purchasing supplies for their employees. The bill has similar disparate treatment for moving expenses – allowing a deduction for business moving expenses, but disallowing such a deduction for an individual. “Additionally, the legislation would end the tax exemption for Private Activity Bonds, which are used by states and municipalities to construct dorms, classrooms, highways, and other public infrastructure improvements. Furthermore, the bill would repeal the deductibility of donations made to college athletic departments for sport ticket rights. These donations are used to fund women’s and men’s college sports, and repeal of this deduction would lead to the loss of scholarship opportunities for student athletes. “Congress must ensure that tax relief flows to middle income Americans. According to the nonpartisan Georgia Budget and Policy Institute (GBPI), nearly forty percent of the aggregate tax cut in this legislation would benefit the wealthiest one percent of Georgians. These tax cuts for high income households and large corporations would become more generous over time whereas other broader benefits under the legislation for middle and lower income households would shrink and eventually expire. GBPI found that while Georgians earning over $543,000 a year would see their taxes cut by $56,000 in 2018 and $75,000 in 2027, the middle fifth of Georgia households would see their taxes reduced only by $500 in 2017 and $220 in 2027, and nearly 30% of middle income households would actually see a tax increase. “Congress’s Joint Committee on Taxation estimates that the bill would increase deficits by $1.44 trillion over ten years, saddling the nation with more debt just as more and more Americans are retiring and making use of government services including Social Security and Medicare. Combined with the budget resolution passed late October, this could result in reductions to Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, Unemployment Insurance, nutrition assistance, and our agriculture and commodity support programs. “While I do support tax relief for Georgia families, it needs to be fair, balanced, and fiscally responsible both in the short and the long term. The benefits must be shared among Georgians of all income levels rather than just concentrated at the top. While the tax legislation approved by the U.S. House of Representatives yesterday fails that test, I remain hopeful that it can be improved in the coming weeks during negotiations with the U.S. Senate.” The House tax bill is opposed by the AARP, the National Farmers Union, the National Education Association, the American Federation of Teachers, the American Council on Education, the Association of American Colleges and Universities, the National Fraternal Order of Police, the International Association of Fire Fighters, Paralyzed Veterans of America, the NAACP, the National Council of Churches, the United Methodist Church, the United Church of Christ, the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops, the National Association of Home Builders, Americans for Tax Fairness, the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget, and the National Association of Realtors.
11.15.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) voted in support of H.R. 2810, the National Defense Authorization Act of Fiscal Year 2018, which would provide $700 billion for our national defense. The legislation contains provisions that would increase the current active troop level by more than 16,000. The bill also includes a 2.4% pay raise for all military personnel. “This legislation ensures that our military remains vibrant and strong,” said Congressman Bishop. “As a member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veteran Affairs, I am particularly pleased that the legislation authorizes $10.7 billion for construction within the Department of Defense to strengthen our military infrastructure both home and abroad.” The measure also prohibits the Defense Secretary from reducing the basic allowance for housing and authorizes the Department to reimburse a service member up to $500 for a spouse's expenses related to obtaining licensing or certification in another state due to a permanent change of station. “This bill addresses some of the challenges that have impacted our military families,” continued Congressman Bishop. “Measures that boost the quality of life for our military families increase the total readiness of our military force.” The measure includes a number of provisions for Middle and Southwest Georgia. The legislation increases funding for the Army’s armored brigade, ensuring that when soldiers from Fort Benning’s Maneuver Center of Excellence graduate, they have the equipment they need to defend our Nation. It authorizes increased funding for operation and maintenance accounts, providing units such as the Marine Corps Logistics Command in Albany, GA with additional resources to complete critical ground combat depot level repair work. It also preserves the J-STARS program at Robins Air Force Base and authorizes $417 million in FY 2018 for J-STARS recapitalization. Additionally, the bill fully funds $8 billion for cyber operations, an increase of $1.7 billion that will provide vital funding for the Army Cyberspace operations conducted in Fort Gordon. The legislation was adopted by the full House of Representatives yesterday evening in a vote of 356 to 70. The measure now moves over to the Senate where it is expected to pass before going to the President to be signed into law. The summary and additional details on the contents of the bill can be found here.
11.15.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue, in accordance with Section 321(a) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act, sent a letter this week designating 83 counties within the State of Georgia as primary disaster areas due to the impacts of Hurricane Irma. This primary designation includes Baker, Clay, Crawford, Crisp, Decatur, Dooly, Grady, Lee, Macon, Marion, Miller, Mitchell, Peach, Randolph, Seminole, Schley, Stewart, Sumter, Taylor, Terrell, and Webster counties within the Second Congressional District of Georgia. Additionally, Calhoun, Chattahoochee, Dougherty, Early, Quitman, Talbot counties were designated as contiguous disaster counties. “On behalf of Middle and Southwest Georgia’s agriculture community, I am grateful that USDA has appropriately responded to our plight,” said Congressman Sanford Bishop. “Having access to programs and available resources will help our growers repair and rebuild their operations stronger following damage caused by Hurricane Irma, and will help ensure that Georgia’s agriculture industry continues to help feed the world.” The designation as a primary or contiguous disaster area opens up eligibility for certain types of disaster loan assistance. The main disaster assistance program triggered by these designations is consideration for low-interest emergency loans. These designations also trigger access to the Disaster Set-Aside (DSA) program, which enables producers with a direct loan from the Farm Service Agency (FSA) to move one annual payment to the end of the loan if the producers are not able to make their payments on schedule. Background on USDA’s disaster assistance programs can be found here. A copy of Secretary Perdue’s designation letter can be found here. Any determinations concerning eligibility for any USDA programs will need to be made by USDA. Farmers can find contact information for their local USDA FSA Office here.
11.09.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), senior member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies and Co-Chair of the Congressional Military Family Caucus (CMFC), released the following statement honoring our nation's veterans in recognition of Veterans Day this weekend: “On this Veterans Day, we pause to remember those who selflessly served in the United States Armed Forces and recognize their sacrifice and devotion to protect our freedom. “To over 20 million veterans in the United States including the 60,000 veterans who live in Second Congressional District of Georgia, I thank you for your service and sacrifice to our country. “Today and every day, we are grateful for your service to our Country. Whenever and wherever our nation called, you always answered and never faltered; we are forever indebted for your commitment.” Congressman Sanford Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) is scheduled to participate in two Veterans Day events in the Second Congressional District of Georgia this Saturday. He will speak at the F.D. Roosevelt State Park Veterans Day Celebration and provide remarks at the Vietnam Veterans Commemorative Service.
11.08.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), fellow Co-Chair of the Job Corps Caucus, Congressman Lou Barletta (PA-11), and House Rules Committee Chairman Pete Sessions (TX-32), were joined by 118 Members of Congress in sending a letter to the Department of Labor requesting a reevaluation of their proposed cuts to the Job Corps Program. Following submission of the letter, the Department of Labor announced they will be rescinding the slot capacity cuts initially announced on September 29, 2017. “For over fifty years Job Corps has empowered its participants to become productive members of society,” said Congressman Bishop. “The program enables its students to reach their goals, achieve their educational aspirations, and learn a trade. This program has substantial and bipartisan support in Congress due to its positive impacts across the nation. I applaud the U.S. Department of Labor’s decision to reverse its proposed cuts to Job Corps. This decision will allow students to continue to gain valuable career and social skills that will serve them well throughout their lives.” “One of the best parts about our country is that any one has the ability to achieve anything no matter where they are from or what their background is. It is programs like the Job Corps that continue to make the American Dream possible by creating opportunities for all individuals from all walks of life to succeed,” said Congressman Sessions. “As a firm supporter of this program, I proudly joined my colleagues in increasing funding for the Jobs Corps", continued Sessions. “Since we have provided the necessary resources for the program to continue at current levels I was concerned that the Department announced they would reduce the number of students accepted into this program. I commend the Department of Labor for reversing these damaging cuts and look forward to supporting the success of the Job Corps program.” "Job Corps is one of the most important programs we have to encourage America’s young adults to succeed and learn the value of civic duty,” Barletta said. “I am very pleased the DOL now understands the importance of this program.” “When I was a mayor, I met the students from the Keystone Job Corps Center and witnessed the work they did for our community,” continued Barletta. “They helped to build the sidewalks around City Hall and designed the trash receptacles during the downtown beautification project. I’ve also had numerous Job Corps students intern in my Hazleton district office. Job Corps allows young adults to get involved in our community, which benefits everyone. For 50 years the program has empowered the youth of America.” To read the full letter to Secretary Acosta, click here.
11.08.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement today in recognition of Native American Heritage Month, which runs during the month of November: “This month of November, let us celebrate the rich traditions and heritages of Native Americans and the contributions they have made to the United States as the nation’s first people. Let us not forget the struggles and tribulations Native Americans have experienced and let us honor every Native American to ensure an inclusive future for all. “As we celebrate Native American Heritage Month, we must look back to honor the traditions and cultures of Native Americans and ensure that their enduring legacy is remembered.”
11.02.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Tomorrow, November 3, 2017, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Ranking Member of the U.S. House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, will attend and deliver remarks at the groundbreaking ceremony for a new research facility at the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) National Poultry Research Center in Athens, Georgia. The ceremony is set to begin at 10:00am. Congressman Bishop will be delivering remarks at 10:30am. Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue will also be speaking at the groundbreaking. WHO: Congressman Sanford D. Bishop Jr. (GA-02) The Honorable Sonny Perdue, Secretary of the U.S. Department of Agriculture Staff from the Office of Congressman Sanford Bishop Staff from the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) WHAT: Groundbreaking Ceremony for the new Southeast Poultry Research Laboratory WHEN: TOMORROW, Friday, November 3, 2017 10:00am to 12:00pm WHERE: U.S. National Poultry Research Center 950 College Station Rd. Athens, Georgia 30605
10.26.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement regarding his vote in opposition to the budget resolution due to its misplaced priorities and dubious economic assumptions. The bill was passed by the full U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 216 to 212. “I could not support the budget resolution that was put to a vote earlier today. It would add trillions of dollars to the deficit through tax cuts for the wealthiest one percent, while increasing taxes on one in three middle income Americans. “Further, the budget resolution also includes significant cuts to health care, education, child care, housing, nutrition assistance, transportation, and other vital programs. In particular, Medicare would be cut over the next decade by $473 billion and Medicaid by $1 trillion under this budget resolution. “This budget resolution relies on unrealistic economic growth numbers to support its tax cut and deficit reduction policies, and would further exacerbate our nation's fiscal situation. The bottom line is that this budget resolution is a bad deal for the American economy and the American people.”
10.19.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Earlier this week, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) led 10 other Members of Congress in a letter to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee opposing legislation, H.R. 1394, that would allow states to eliminate Medicaid non-emergency medical transportation (NEMT) for patients, including kidney dialysis patients. All signatories are members of the Blue Dog Coalition, a caucus of Democrats dedicated to fiscally-responsible policies. The Members wrote in the letter: “NEMT is an essential component of our nation’s health care delivery system, especially in rural areas. According to a recent Kaiser study, over half of Medicaid transportation services are utilized by patients with the highest burden of chronic diseases, including those diagnosed with cancer, HIV, mental health and substance abuse disorders, and end-stage renal disease requiring kidney dialysis three times a week.” The Members continued: “We would be grateful if you would oppose any attempt to eliminate or undermine Medicaid NEMT and hope that you would support the requirement for States to offer transportation to all Medicaid patients that have no other means to access health services.” Only Medicaid beneficiaries that have no other means of transportation are eligible for the current NEMT benefit. It has been shown that the NEMT benefit has a significant return-on-investment as, over time, health care costs are reduced when patients have appropriate access to care. A scan of the letter can be found here. The full letter text can also be found below: October 17, 2017 The Honorable Greg Walden Chairman Committee on Energy and Commerce 2125 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 The Honorable Frank Pallone, Jr. Ranking Member Committee on Energy and Commerce 2322A Rayburn House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Chairman Walden and Ranking Member Pallone: We are writing to express our concern about legislation (H.R. 1394) that would allow states to eliminate Medicaid non-emergency medical transportation (NEMT) for patients that are blind, elderly, or disabled. As you may be aware, NEMT is an essential component of our nation’s health care delivery system, especially in rural areas. According to a recent Kaiser study, over half of Medicaid transportation services are utilized by patients with the highest burden of chronic diseases, including those diagnosed with cancer, HIV, mental health and substance abuse disorders, and end-stage renal disease requiring kidney dialysis three times a week. NEMT is utilized by roughly 10% of Medicaid enrollees and accounts for only 1% of total Medicaid spending. It is reserved for beneficiaries who have no other means of transportation to and from their medical appointments. State programs help to ensure the benefit is accessible only to those in need. We believe that the elimination of NEMT would adversely impact both beneficiaries and state budgets. Studies have shown that the benefit has a significant return-on-investment as, over time, health care costs are reduced when patients have appropriate, non-emergency access to care. We would be grateful if you would oppose any attempt to eliminate or undermine Medicaid NEMT and hope that you would support the requirement for States to offer transportation to all Medicaid patients that have no other means to access health services. Sincerely, Rep. Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) Rep. Jim Cooper (TN-05) Rep. Charlie Crist (FL-13) Rep. Henry Cuellar (TX-28) Rep. Vincent Gonzalez (TX-15) Rep. Josh Gottheimer (NJ-05) Rep. Daniel Lipinski (IL-03) Rep. Tom O’Halleran (AZ-01) Rep. Collin C. Peterson (MN-07) Rep. David Scott (GA-13) Rep. Kyrsten Sinema (AZ-09)
10.18.2017	COLUMBUS, GA – Yesterday, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Co-Chair of the Congressional Military Family Caucus (CMFC), was joined by fellow Co-Chair Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), officials from the Department of Defense and Fort Benning, representatives from military service organizations, staff from five Congressional offices, and over 200 military family and service members at the annual Congressional Military Family Caucus Summit at the National Infantry Museum near Fort Benning in Columbus, Georgia. “As Co-Chair of the Congressional Military Family Caucus and a member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, I take seriously my obligation to military families and veterans in Georgia and nationwide,” said Congressman Bishop. “It is our responsibility to listen, learn, and ensure military family voices are heard on Capitol Hill. Spousal employment, state licensure, healthcare and caregiving, and military child education provide unique challenges for military families, and as legislators, we must see to it that the policies we craft ease the burden for those families that support our national defense.” “Supporting our military families is a top priority of mine because the strength of our military is drawn from the strength of our military families," said Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers. "This summit and caucus allow us to pay special attention to the unique and diverse issues that military families face, hear their stories, and work to find solutions. I'm so thankful to Congressman Sanford D. Bishop for being a partner in this effort and for hosting this year’s summit at Fort Benning. As a team, we can continue to look for solutions to strengthen our military families and make their lives a little easier.” “We have made great strides in addressing the challenges facing military families since the founding the Congressional Military Family Caucus in 2009,” continued Congressman Bishop. “However, there always remains room for improvement. The Military Family Summit continues to provide military families a seat at the table and helps Congress and the Executive Branch uncover and address emerging concerns in a swift and productive manner.” The Military Family Summit brought together military families with Members of Congress and their staff, officials from the Department of Defense, and personnel from numerous military family support organizations to discuss pressing issues impacting America’s service members and their families. The summit included discussions exploring the challenges service members and military families face surrounding spouse employment and child education, compensation and retirement, and military family healthcare and childcare. The CMFC is a bipartisan congressional caucus that educates elected officials, congressional staffers, senior military leaders, and the public on a wide range of unique issues that affect military families. Currently, over 80 Democrats and Republicans are members of the CMFC. Keynote panelists included General (Ret.) Lloyd Austin, former Commander of CENTCOM and Vice Chief of Staff of the Army; Joyce Raezer, Executive Director of the National Military Association; and Major General Jeffrey Clark from the Defense Health Agency. The full program, including all panelists and moderators, for the 2017 Military Family Summit can be found here.
10.16.2017	COLUMBUS, GA – Tomorrow, October 17, 2017, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), co-chair of the Congressional Military Family Caucus (CMFC), will host a Military Family Summit at the National Infantry Museum near Fort Benning in Columbus, Georgia. Congressman Bishop will be joined by his fellow CMFC co-chair, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), as well as senior administration officials, military families, and stakeholder organizations. The purpose of the Military Family Summit is to connect military families with Members of Congress and their staff, officials from the Department of Defense, and personnel from numerous military family support organizations to discuss pressing issues impacting America’s service members and their families. Military families will be able to participate in panels to discuss issues faced on a daily basis, such as family health, resiliency, spouse employment and education, military child education, transition assistance, retirement, benefits, and financial readiness for the future. Additionally, resources specific to military families will be provided by attending support organizations. The CMFC is a bipartisan congressional caucus that educates elected officials, congressional staffers, senior military leaders, and the public on a wide range of unique issues that affect military families. Currently, over 80 Democrats and Republicans are members of the CMFC. WHO: Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (D-GA), Co-Chair of the Congressional Military Family Caucus Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Co-Chair of the Congressional Military Family Caucus KEYNOTE: GEN (Ret) Lloyd Austin, Previous Commander of CENTCOM Keynote: Joyce Raezer, Executive Director, National Military Association KEYNOTE: MG Jeffrey Clark, Defense Health Agency KEYNOTE PANEL: Daniel and Holly Daily, Sergeant Major of the U.S. Army KEYNOTE PANEL: Ronald and Andrea Green, Sergeant Major of the U.S. Marine Corps KEYNOTE PANEL: Steven and Elka Giordano, Master Chief Petty Officer of the Navy Senator Ed Harbison, Georgia State Senator MG (Ret) Jerry White, Academy Nominations Board Chairman Jeri Busch, Director of Military Compensation, Department of Defense Michael Reyna, President, Military Benefit Association Kara Tollet Oakley, Founder of the TRICARE for Kids Coalition Anna Crenshaw, Assistant Director, Benefits Assistance Services, Department of Veterans Affairs John Ballantyne, Chief Operating Officer, Military Child Education Coalition Eddy Mentzer, Associate Director, Family Readiness & Well Being, Department of Defense Patty Barron, Director of Family Readiness, Association of the U.S. Army Brooke Goldberg, Director Military Family Issues, Military Officers Association of America Thomas Owens, Special Assistant to the Director, Defense Commissary Agency Kelly Hruska, Government Relations Director, National Military Family Association Leigh Plott, Director of Development, The Moyer Foundation Cynthia Wesley, spouse of MG Eric Wesley, CG, U.S. Army Maneuver Center of Excellence April Stephens, Fort Benning Spouse of the year and Professional blogger Representatives from military service organizations (list below) Congressional Staff Military families, service members, veterans The public WHAT: Congressional Military Family Caucus Summit; Introductory Remarks, Media Availability, Panels (While content of sessions will be off the record, military families will be available for comment. Please contact Jonathan Black for details) Availability to support organizations such as: Association of the United States Army; American Legion; Blue Star Families; Fort Benning Army Community Service; Fort Benning Morale, Welfare, and Recreation; Resilience Training on Fort Benning; Gold Star Families; Hiring Our Heroes; Military Child Education Coalition; Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission; Military Officers Association of America; Military OneSource; National Infantry Museum and Soldier Center; National Military Family Association; Warrior Care; Soldier for Life; USO; Veterans of Foreign Wars; Voices of Georgia’s Children; Army Community Service; Georgia Watch; Zero to Three; Heavy Equipment Colleges of America; Central Alabama Veterans Health Care System; Georgia Department of Labor; Neighbor Works Columbus; Operation Caregiver; Army Substance Abuse Program; America’s VetDogs; West Georgia Cancer Coalition; Operation Homefront; Casualty Assistance Office; American Red Cross. WHEN: Tuesday, October 17, 2017 DOORS OPEN: 8:00 AM EST START: 8:30 AM EST END: 1:00 PM EST MEDIA AVAILABILITY: 11:15 AM to 11:35 AM If you would like to attend and/or schedule a separate interview with Congressman Bishop, please contact Jonathan Black at jonathan.black@mail.house.gov WHERE: National Infantry Museum and Soldier Center 1775 Legacy Way Columbus, GA 31903
10.12.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement regarding his vote in support of a legislative package providing disaster relief for areas impacted by Hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and Maria. “This legislation takes great strides in helping impacted areas recover from the series of devastating hurricanes that struck our nation. This bill provides the necessary resources for the Southeastern United States, the Gulf Coast, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands to recover after this storm. It addresses food needs, flood recovery, and rebuilding. It is important to note that recovery will take time and it is vital that we remain vigilant to ensure impacted communities have what they need to get on their feet.” The aid package provides $36.5 billion in disaster relief resources. This includes $18.7 billion for the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s disaster relief fund, including $4.9 billion in low-interest loans for Puerto Rico. The bill also includes $1.27 billion for the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program to meet increased food needs in the U.S. territories following the storm. In addition, the bill provides $16 billion in National Flood Insurance Program debt relief. Finally, the bill also provides $576.6 million to fight wildfires.
10.10.2017	COLUMBUS, GA – Next Tuesday, October 17, 2017, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Co-chair of the Congressional Military Family Caucus (CMFC), will host a Military Family Summit at the National Infantry Museum near Fort Benning in Columbus, Georgia. Congressman Bishop will be joined by his fellow CMFC co-chair, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), as well as senior administration officials, military families, and stakeholder organizations. The purpose of the Military Family Summit is to connect military families with Members of Congress and their staff, officials from the Department of Defense, and personnel from numerous military family support organizations to discuss pressing issues impacting America’s service members and their families. Military families will be able to participate in panels to discuss issues faced on a daily basis, such as family health, resiliency, spouse employment and education, military child education, transition assistance, retirement, benefits, and financial readiness for the future. Additionally, resources specific to military families will be provided by attending support organizations. The CMFC is a bipartisan congressional caucus that educates elected officials, congressional staffers, senior military leaders, and the public on a wide range of unique issues that affect military families. Currently, over 80 Democrats and Republicans are members of the CMFC. WHO: Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (D-GA); Co-Chair of the Congressional Military Family Caucus Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA); Co-Chair of the Congressional Military Family Caucus Keynote: Joyce Raezer, Executive Director, National Military Association KEYNOTE: MG Jeffrey Clark, Defense Health Agency Senator Ed Harbison, Georgia State Senator Daniel Daily, Sergeant Major of the U.S. Army and his spouse Holly Ronald Green, Sergeant Major of the U.S. Marine Corps and his spouse Andrea Steven Giordano, Master Chief Petty Officer of the Navy and his spouse Elka MG (Ret) Jerry White; Academy Nominations Board Chairman Jeri Busch, Director of Military Compensation, Department of Defense Michael Reyna, President, Military Benefit Association Kara Tollet Oakley, Founder of the TRICARE for Kids Coalition Anna Crenshaw, Assistant Director, Benefits Assistance Services, Department of Veterans Affairs John Ballantyne, Chief Operating Officer, Military Child Education Coalition Eddy Mentzer, Associate Director, Family Readiness & Well Being, Department of Defense Patty Barron, Director of Family Readiness, Association of the U.S. Army Brooke Goldberg, Director Military Family Issues, Military Officers Association of America Thomas Owens, Special Assistant to the Director, Defense Commissary Agency Kelly Hruska, Government Relations Director, National Military Family Association Leigh Plott, Director of Development, The Moyer Foundation Cynthia Wesley; spouse of MG Eric Wesley, CG, U.S. Army Maneuver Center of Excellence. April Stephens, Fort Benning Spouse of the year and Professional blogger Representatives from military service organizations (list below) Congressional Staff Military families, service members, veterans The public WHAT: Congressional Military Family Caucus Summit; Introductory Remarks, Media Availability, Panels (While content of sessions will be off the record, military families will be available for comment. Please contact Jonathan Black for details) Availability to support organizations such as: Association of the United States Army; American Legion; Blue Star Families; Fort Benning Army Community Service; Fort Benning Morale, Welfare, and Recreation; Resilience Training on Fort Benning; Gold Star Families; Hiring Our Heroes; Military Child Education Coalition; Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission; Military Officers Association of America; Military OneSource; National Infantry Museum and Soldier Center; National Military Family Association; Warrior Care; Soldier for Life; USO; Veterans of Foreign Wars; Voices of Georgia’s Children; Army Community Service; Georgia Watch; Zero to Three; Heavy Equipment Colleges of America; Central Alabama Veterans Health Care System; Georgia Department of Labor; Neighbor Works Columbus; Operation Caregiver; Army Substance Abuse Program; America’s VetDogs; West Georgia Cancer Coalition; Operation Homefront; Casualty Assistance Office; American Red Cross. WHEN: Tuesday, October 17, 2017 DOORS OPEN: 8:00 AM EST START: 8:30 AM EST END: 1:00 PM EST MEDIA AVAILABILITY: 11:15 AM to 11:35 AM If you would like to attend and/or schedule a separate interview with Congressman Bishop, please contact Jonathan Black at jonathan.black@mail.house.gov WHERE: National Infantry Museum and Soldier Center 1775 Legacy Way Columbus, GA 31903
10.03.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) is proud to announce that Fort Valley State University (FVSU) has been selected for a $232,265 grant award from the U.S. Department of Education’s Ronald E. McNair Post-Baccalaureate Achievement Program. The Ronald E. McNair Post-Baccalaureate Achievement Program grant, which is anticipated to be for a period of five years, will provide aid to underrepresented students at FVSU to prepare for further graduate education through involvement in research and other scholarly activities. “This award will support Fort Valley State University’s work in cultivating the minds of students regardless of their background and life circumstances,” said Congressman Bishop. “It is vital that academically talented students are recognized and given the right tools to further their educational experience.” The U.S. Department of Education offers a number of grants to promote student achievement and foster educational excellence, while adhering to equal educational access. The Ronald E. McNair Post-Baccalaureate Achievement Program prepares underrepresented college students for future doctoral studies by providing seminars, summer internships, tutoring, academic counseling, and other educational activities. The program being implemented at FVSU aims to serve 25 participants from low income/first generation and underrepresented backgrounds and seeks to help close the doctoral degree attainment gap for underrepresented groups.
10.02.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement on the mass shooting that occurred last night in Las Vegas: “These senseless shootings must stop. We must ensure that weapons are not falling into the wrong hands and that we fully fund programs and resources that can identify and address dangerous behavior before it is too late. “This tragedy reverberates far past Las Vegas. It impacts the country as a whole. My deepest sympathies go to those affected by this shooting, and I pray for the victims and their families.”
09.27.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop Jr. (GA-02), is pleased to announce that the Rural Development agency of the U.S. Department of Agriculture has approved over $6.5 million in funding to the City of Butler, as well as an $8,248 grant to Brumbelow Foods in Randolph County, both located in the 2nd Congressional District of Georgia. “The grants and loans being awarded to the City of Butler by the USDA will be a tremendous boon to the city’s infrastructure, and USDA’s focus on supporting our farmers will help keep Georgia competitive well into the 21st Century,” said Congressman Bishop. “The USDA’s Rural Development agency does a yeoman’s job in supporting the livability and efficiency of our rural communities.” The City of Butler will receive funding from the USDA’s Water and Waste Disposal Loans and Grants program to be used for the wastewater projects. The package includes a $2,840,000 grant and a $3,660,000 loan for the city. The funds for the City of Butler will be used to replace the city’s Vitrified Clay Pipe (VCP) sewer mains, install new manholes, construct a lift station, optimize the existing pretreatment system, and replace of the existing High Density Polyethylene (HDPE) liner at the existing wastewater holding pond. The scope of the water project also includes replacement of asbestos concrete water mains and the construction of a 500,000 gallon elevated storage tank. The USDA is also awarding an $8,248 grant to Brumbelow Foods in Randolph County under its Rural Energy for America Program (REAP). REAP is used to promote energy efficiency for farmers, ranchers, and rural small businesses, and the funding for this program will support the installation of LED lighting at Brumbelow Foods. Both recipients received these grants and loans from the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Rural Development agency, which provides both technical assistance and loans, grants, and loan guarantees to support essential services in rural America. This support is used to help communities with housing, economic development, health care, first responder services and equipment, as well as water, electric, and communications infrastructure.
09.26.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Ranking Member of the U.S. House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies, is pleased to announce that the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers has awarded $516,000 in funding for aquatic vegetation treatment and fishery repopulation to address hydrilla growth in Lake Seminole and Lake W.F. George, both located in the 2nd Congressional District of Georgia. For Lake Seminole, the U.S. Army Corps awarded a contract of $143,000 to address growth of the invasive hydrilla weed and $95,000 to repopulate the lake’s hybrid grass carp. For Lake W.F. George, the Army Corps awarded $68,000 to address hydrilla growth and $210,000 to repopulate its hybrid grass carp. Hydrilla is an invasive aquatic weed that presents a major risk to the health and well-being of impacted lakes. Hybrid grass carp feed on aquatic weeds such as hydrilla and do not reproduce in ponds and lakes. “I am thrilled that the U.S. Army Corps is taking decisive action to revitalize Lake Seminole and Lake W.F. George,” said Congressman Bishop. “Addressing hydrilla growth in these two lakes will breath new life into these important resources. The action taken by the Army Corps will restore ecological balance and allow for sustainable usage of the lakes by the surrounding communities. I look forward to seeing these lakes flourish for years to come.” Addressing hydrilla growth in Lake Seminole and Lake W.F. George is vital to the environmental and economic health of these resources. Hydrilla's ability to multiply at alarmingly high speeds enables it to dominate the vegetation within a lake. As hydrilla grows, it gradually creates a thick, blanket-like cover near the water’s surface, which drastically impedes sunlight and oxygen from reaching the lake’s submerged aquatic life. The dense network of hydrilla that forms near the water’s surface significantly limits boat use and other forms of water recreation. Congressman Bishop has long been focused on addressing the hydrilla infestation to protect the ecological health of Lake Seminole and Lake W.F. George and to ensure the robust and sustainable utilization of the lakes by the surrounding communities. On April 13, 2017, Congressman Bishop held a town hall with the Army Corps in Donalsonville, Georgia to discuss the hydrilla challenge in Lake Seminole, a follow-up to a similar town hall held in August 2015. On April 27, 2017, he authored a letter to the Army Corps urging sufficient resources be devoted to address the hydrilla issue. Additionally, Congressman Bishop has supported appropriations measures to provide resources to address outbreaks of aquatic weeds, including hydrilla. ###
09.15.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Ranking Member of the U.S. House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies, released the following statement regarding the passing of Tommy Irvin, who served as Georgia’s Agriculture Commissioner for 42 years. “I was greatly saddened to learn of the passing of my friend of longstanding, Tommy Irvin, who served as a devoted champion for Georgia’s farmers, ranchers, and consumers. Tommy was Georgia’s longest-serving state public official and the country’s longest serving agriculture commissioner. He began his service in 1956 as a member of a local school board. He later served in Georgia’s General Assembly and became Georgia’s Commissioner of Agriculture in 1969. “His passion for public service and his advocacy for the agriculture community will not be forgotten. He is an example for all public servants to follow. My thoughts and prayers go out to Tommy’s family and friends during this time of loss.”
09.14.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Ranking Member of the U.S. House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies, released the following statement regarding his opposition to the misguided FY18 omnibus appropriations package (H.R. 3354): “I was unable to support this legislation due to its drastic across-the-board funding reductions and other harmful provisions. This legislation would cut vital non-defense agencies to $5 billion below Budget Control Act levels. This includes reductions to infrastructure and economic development, education and afterschool programs, college grants, and heath care. This appropriations bill is already dead on arrival in the Senate and does nothing to avoid a government shutdown at the end of the year. “This legislation includes provisions that would turn back the progress we have made with the Affordable Care Act by prohibiting the use of government funds for its implementation, administration, or enforcement. It would also cut $524 million from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. These two provisions would dramatically increase health costs, while also reducing coverage. “This bill would also eliminate many of the consumer and financial protection reforms that were implemented after the great recession. This includes the elimination of the fiduciary rule for financial advisors, the abolishment of the Office of Financial Research, which provides research and data analysis to identify systemic risks, and the removal of the Consumer Financial Protect Bureau’s oversight authority over certain large banks. “This year’s budget and appropriations process has been a disappointment. Congress has not passed a budget resolution nor set top-line spending numbers. This failure has led directly to this dangerous appropriations measure, which would starve out important non-defense programs that directly support our nation’s economic and social vibrancy. “If we do not invest in the non-defense side of the budget, our nation will be weaker, and our military less able to do its job. We must have sound investments in our workforce, in education, and in health and nutrition. Such investments are essential to our way of life as Americans. “I urge leadership from both parties and both chambers of Congress to return to a regular working order and to take a comprehensive view of our budgetary needs as a nation.”
09.14.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – On Friday, September 15, 2017, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) and U.S. Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue will tour hurricane damage to farms in Georgia, including Mason Pecans in the Second Congressional District of Georgia. Congressman Bishop and Secretary Perdue will visit Mason Pecans in Fort Valley, Georgia at 12:15pm. In addition to serving as the Congressman for the Second Congressional District of Georgia, Congressman Bishop is the Ranking Member of the U.S. House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, which has funding jurisdiction over the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) and other farm related agencies and programs. WHO: Congressman Sanford D. Bishop Jr. (GA-02) The Honorable Sonny Perdue, Secretary of the U.S. Department of Agriculture Staff from the Office of Congressman Sanford Bishop Staff from the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Local farmers WHAT: Tour of Farms Impacted by Hurricane Irma Media Availability WHEN: FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2017 MASON PECANS: 12:15PM WHERE: MASON PECANS 1808 Bleckley Road Fort Valley, Georgia 31030
09.14.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) administers several disaster assistance programs through the Farm Service Agency (FSA), which may be available to farmers impacted by Hurricane Irma. Those seeking emergency funding and technical assistance for tree and crop losses due to the recent natural disasters may be eligible for the Tree Assistance Program (TAP) to replant or rehabilitate eligible trees, bushes, and vines; and/or the Emergency Conservation Program (ECP) to rehabilitate damaged farmland. Recognizing the staffing shortages and challenges growers are facing with not only their land, but also their homes and families, USDA has notified all county offices that photos and videos of damage will suffice as a loss verification tool. This will assist in expediting application reviews during the recovery efforts. However, FSA has requested that growers not destroy the evidence as a back-up measure for any necessary on-the-ground assessments to be performed at a later date. Additional information on USDA disaster assistance programs may be found here.
09.11.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement today to commemorate the 16th Anniversary of the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001: “Today, I join all Americans in remembrance of those who lost their lives and all those who bravely responded on 9/11. This day changed the course of our nation. Many innocent lives were lost, and families were torn apart. They will never be forgotten and will live in our prayers and actions. “It was a trying day in our history. However, in responding to this tragedy, our nation came together. We showed solidarity in the face of adversity and helped our fellow neighbors. We showed the strength of our common bond as Americans. “On this 16th anniversary of September 11, 2001, let us pause to remember all those who have sacrificed, and who continue to sacrifice, to preserve this great nation’s freedom. “May God continue to bless the United States of America.”
09.06.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement regarding his vote in support of a legislative package providing disaster relief for areas impacted by Hurricane Harvey. The aid package provides $7.4 billion for the Federal Emergency Management Agency and $450 million for the Small Business Administration, and is a significant first step in addressing a particularly active hurricane season. The legislation passed the full U.S. House of Representatives in a vote of 419 to 3. “One of the core duties of government is to protect its citizenry. When disaster strikes, displacing families and throwing communities into turmoil, it is imperative that we take swift action and offer a helping hand. I have seen firsthand the destruction caused by flooding and storms in my home in Albany, Georgia, and I cannot stand idly by as my fellow Americans in the Gulf Coast face the challenge of rebuilding after Hurricane Harvey. “I strongly support this legislation, as well any and all efforts to protect our communities across the nation against future storms and disasters.”
09.05.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement regarding the administration’s plan to rescind Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA). “DACA provides temporary relief from deportation as well as work authorization to those who were brought to the United States as children, many of whom contribute to their communities and know no other country but the United States as home. These individuals include talented students, hard-working high school graduates, and veterans who pose no threat to public safety. Going after these individuals would consume much-needed resources needed by law enforcement to target those who would do America harm. “By rescinding DACA, the administration is dragging us further and further away from necessary and common-sense immigration reform. I call for Congress to come together on a long-term, compassionate, and comprehensive solution to our broken immigration system.”
08.25.2017	SALINAS, CA – This week, Congressman Sanford Bishop (GA-02), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, joined Congressman Jimmy Panetta (CA-20) in the central coast of California to tour agriculture facilities, meet with producers and farmworkers, and learn more about the over 100 specialty crops grown in California’s 20th congressional district. “As the representative of the Salad Bowl of the World, I believe it is critical to share with my colleagues the critical work of our growers, shippers, and farmworkers. I thank Ranking Member Bishop for coming to Central Coast to gain a deeper understanding of the uniqueness, diversity, and expansiveness of our agriculture industry,” said Congressman Panetta. “I look forward to working together to advocate for the resources and funding for programs that our producers, community organizations, and research entities need to thrive.” "Regardless of dietary preferences or political affiliations, we all need to eat to survive, and I am honored to tour these vital agricultural sites with my friend, Congressman Jimmy Panetta," said Congressman Bishop. "California’s 20th and Georgia’s 2nd congressional districts are alike in that agriculture does not just live here, it thrives here. Going into the next Farm Bill and working to closeout FY18 appropriations, I see no better time to ensure we are responsibly resourcing industries, programs, and efforts that will keep U.S. agriculture flourishing and competitive on the worldwide stage." Congressman Bishop serves on the House Appropriations Committee as the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies. In this role, Congressman Bishop serves as the subcommittee’s lead Democrat. The House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture has funding jurisdiction over the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the Farm Credit Administration, and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. The three-day tour, which took place from August 23rd to 25th, included visits to berry, lettuce, and other specialty crop producers; a large-scale organic operation; a beginning farmer training association; and the USDA Agricultural Research Service lab in Salinas.
07.27.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement regarding his support of the Fiscal Year (FY) 2018 Minibus Appropriations government spending bill, which includes funding for the Department of Defense, the Department of Veteran Affairs, the Legislative Branch, and for energy and water development. The bill was passed by the full U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 235 to 192. “One of the most fundamental duties of the United States Congress is to ensure that our armed forces are capable of defending and protecting our nation. It is vital that we adequately support our defense and give our troops the tools they need to keep us safe. Further, we must be sure to fulfill our commitments to our veterans. For over two decades, I have consistently supported legislation that has strengthened our military and protected our veterans. This bill is no exception. “There are many provisions in this minibus bill that I support. For example, it provides $10.8 million for a new Air Traffic Control Tower at Fort Benning, GA, which was the Army's number one construction priority. It also provides adequate funding for the Joint Surveillance and Target Attack Radar System (JSTARS) and funds aquatic plant cleanup and research to help combat invasive weeds, such as the hydrilla that clogs our national waterways. “Despite the good included in this bill, it is not perfect. Congress has not passed a budget resolution or set top-line spending numbers. Accordingly, this legislation runs the risk of starving out important non-defense programs that directly support our nation’s economic and social vibrancy. If we do not invest in the non-defense side of the budget, our nation will be weaker, and our military less able to do its job. We must have sound investments in our workforce, in education, and in health and nutrition. Such investments are not only essential to our military, but to our way of life as Americans. “I voted in support of this legislation due to the needs of our veterans and service members. However, going forward, Congress must return to regular working order, a process that takes a holistic view of the federal budget and allows us to more responsibly invest in the needs of the American people.” Additional information on the FY18 Minibus appropriations bill can be found here.
07.18.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Ranking Member of the U.S. House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies, and 108 of his colleagues sent a letter to the President urging him to take action to stabilize the cotton industry by expanding the Cotton Ginning Cost Share Program to operate on an ongoing basis. “The Cotton Ginning Cost Share Program has proven itself to be an effective tool to protect our cotton farms from economic devastation,” said Congressman Bishop. “I urge the President to continue this program to ensure the availability of U.S. cotton for those manufacturers and consumers that rely on this vital agricultural product.” The federal Cotton Ginning Cost Share Program operated under the previous administration for the 2015 crop year. Through the Cotton Ginning Cost Share program, eligible producers received a cost share payment for their gin costs, based on acreage, multiplied by 40 percent of the average ginning cost for each production region. Administered by the U.S. Department of Agriculture, the program has demonstrated itself to be an effective tool in stabilizing cotton prices and providing relief to farmers and the assorted manufacturers and consumers that rely on cotton. Full text of the letter can be found here:
06.28.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Ranking Member of the U.S. House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies, released the following statement regarding the subcommittee's passage of its Fiscal Year (FY) 2018 spending bill: “The agriculture appropriations bill is of vital importance to rural communities and farmers, ranchers, and producers across the nation. It also provides the resources necessary for our nation’s food and drug safety and security. The FY 2018 funding bill is not as robust as I would prefer, but I am pleased that the subcommittee has largely rejected the disastrous cuts put forth by the administration. “This bill provides sufficient funding for our nutrition programs, and adequately funds our Rural Development agencies, with important improvements to rural housing and rural water programs. It also supports our food safety and inspection capabilities, provides full staffing of local Farm Service Agency offices, and continues to invest in our research and conservation capabilities. “However, I must stress that our rural communities need our support more than ever, and I am hopeful that we can make further improvements to this bill as the legislative process continues. “I also have significant concerns that we still have no budget resolution, no top-line spending number, nor a full list of subcommittee allocations. Marking up just one bill at a time without a full list of allocations leaves us effectively working in the dark, and runs the risk of starving out the non-defense agencies that provide for our education and health and that protect our workforce, among other important functions. Such a strategy could ultimately upend the appropriations process, while harming working families and the most vulnerable among us." A summary of the subcommittee’s FY 2018 Agriculture Appropriations Bill follows: BACKGROUND & BILL HIGHLIGHTS: FY18 Mark: $144.9 billion FY17 Enacted: $153.4 billion President's Request: $140.3 billion KEY LANGUAGE IMPACTING AGRICULTURE: Rural Development $122.7 million to establish the Rural Economic Infrastructure Grant account $1.25 billion for rural water and waste program loans, and $473 million for grants and related costs $24 billion in loan authority for the Single Family Housing guaranteed loan program $819 million for the rural business and industry loan program Agricultural Research $2.8 billion for agriculture research programs, including the Agricultural Research Service (ARS) and the National Institute of Food and Agriculture Animal and Plant Health $906 million for Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service Conservation Programs $904 million to help farmers, ranchers, and private forest landowners conserve and protect their land $45 million for infrastructure rehabilitation to meet safety standards for watershed projects Farm Programs $1.6 billion for various programs to help American farmers and ranchers implement the Farm Bill, and staff local Farm Service Agency offices OTHER KEY ITEMS: Food and Drug Administration (FDA) $5.2 billion in total funding to support food safety and 21st Century Cures Act efforts Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) $248 million to ensure robust swaps, futures, and options markets and perform market oversight International Programs $1.8 billion for food aid, including $1.4 billion for “Food for Peace” grants and $185 million for the McGovern-Dole International Food for Education and Child Nutrition Program Food and Nutrition Programs $6.15 billion in discretionary funding for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) $24.28 billion in Child nutrition programs for school lunches/snacks and the Summer Food Service $73.6 billion in mandatory funding for Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) Complete text of the subcommittee’s FY2018 Agriculture Appropriations Bill can be found here.
06.26.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – On Saturday, June 24, 2017, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) participated in the House Agriculture Committee’s Farm Bill Listening Session held on the University of Florida campus in Gainesville, Florida. This listening session provided a forum for agriculture stakeholders to share their experiences in the field with Members of Congress in advance of congressional consideration of a new Farm Bill. The listening session was hosted by the House Agriculture Committee, including Chairman Mike Conaway (TX-11), Congressman Austin Scott (GA-08), and Congressman Rick Allen (GA-12). Congressman Bishop serves as Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, which holds jurisdiction over funding for the U.S. Department of Agriculture and related agricultural programs. Video and background on the listening session can be found here. Below is Congressman Bishop’s full statement as prepared: Good morning everyone. My name is Sanford Bishop and I have the privilege of representing Georgia’s 2nd Congressional District. First, I want to say thank you to the House Agriculture Committee for inviting me to participate in today’s Farm Bill listening session. And I want to also say thank you to all of you for coming today. One of my duties is serving as the Ranking Member on the House Agriculture Appropriations Subcommittee, along with Chairman Robert Aderholt of Alabama. This also makes this inaugural session so important to me because, after all, agriculture touches every aspect of our lives from the paper we write on, the clothing we wear, the food we eat, the water-beer-and-wine we drink, to the raw materials used to build and furnish our homes. A healthy agricultural community translates to a healthy society for us all. Georgia is an agriculture state, with 42,000 farms, and Georgia agriculture contributes $74 billion annually to the state and national economies. Georgia is number one in the nation for the production of poultry, peanuts, pecans, blueberries, privately owned timberlands, and number two in cotton. Likewise, the district I represent is an agriculture district, leading the state in peanuts, cotton, pecans, fruits, vegetables, as well as family-owned timberlands. But, I am not here today as just a Georgia advocate. I, as well as others, are here to lend our collective voices for the country and for what is needed across the agricultural spectrum to keep us moving forward toward enacting a new Farm Bill that meets the needs of our nation. With time comes change, and for our growers and products to remain competitive, research and development and broader access to market opportunities, resulting in increased international exports using fair trade practices, will be a few of the keys to our economic success. This includes incorporating sound integrated pest management practices, developing more environmentally resistant or tolerant seed lines, supporting rural business, expanding broadband networks in rural communities, and encouraging our new, young, and veteran communities to become this country’s next generation of farmers. What also makes this country strong is our capacity and capability to provide for those in need. The nutrition programs within the Farm Bill are vital to meeting the nutritional needs of low-income, food insecure households by providing a safety net necessary to assist in fighting hunger in this country both at home and at school. In this regard, it is imperative that we maintain the linkage in the Farm Bill between our farm-related programs and our nutrition programs. On-farm programs and their importance in providing farmers a “safety-net” is particularly important in today’s environment, because every commodity, whether corn, wheat, soy, or cotton and peanuts, is facing the lowest prices in decades. As a supporter, I strongly advocate for a new cotton seed oil program, as well as adequate base acres to support all commodity programs in the Farm Bill. Likewise, it is critical that the Committee designs an equitable solution for the Dairy industry that does not jeopardize or penalize other commodity groups, particularly cotton. It is my understanding that except for a few minor modifications, the peanut industry is just fine with the current program, and also supports the current price loss program (PLC) and reference price. I am pleased that Secretary Perdue is undertaking a government wide review of Federal support and activity in rural America, and it is important that the next Farm Bill continues to provide the support that is desperately needed including housing, economic development, infrastructure, and farmland conservation. With that, I turn the floor over to my colleagues to lead us in what I believe will be an enlightening and lively discussion. Thank you! ###
06.26.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (D-GA) welcomes the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) announcement that all beef imports from Brazil to the U.S. will be halted until further notice due to safety concerns. “Food safety is a serious issue and is of the utmost importance,” said Congressman Bishop. “Although Brazil is a significant trading partner, the first priority should always be the safety of American consumers. I commend Secretary Perdue for taking decisive action to protect the integrity of our food supply.” This suspension of Brazilian beef imports comes after the USDA’s Food Safety and Inspection Service (FSIS) documented increased inspection failure rates of Brazilian meat products. Since March 2017, FSIS has inspected all Brazilian meat products arriving from Brazil and has refused entry to 11 percent of all Brazilian fresh beef products. This is significantly higher than the average rejection rate of one percent for global shipments into the U.S. USDA has indicated that the suspension will remain in effect until it deems that the Brazilian Ministry of Agriculture has taken satisfactory corrective action. Additional background on this announcement can be found here. ###
06.15.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), a senior member of the U.S. House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans Affairs (MILCON/VA), released the following statement regarding the Committee's passage of the first of the twelve spending bills that the House will consider for FY 2018 appropriations. Congressman Bishop voted in favor of the legislation. “Today, the Appropriations Committee came together in a bipartisan fashion to meet the needs of our service members, veterans, and their families. As a longtime member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, I am confident that the FY 2018 bill provides our military the resources it needs to defend our country and deliver quality services and access to care for our veterans. "This bill takes several steps to provide the Armed Forces with the facilities needed to support our service members and their families wherever they work, train, or live. I am pleased that the bill provides a total of $202.9 million toward military construction needs in Georgia. This includes $10.8 million for a new Air Traffic Control Tower at Fort Benning to support mission readiness, which was the Army's number one construction priority. The bill also includes $43.3 million in funding to repair damage to the Marine Corps Logistics Base in Albany, which was struck by severe storms and tornadoes last January. "The FY2018 MILCON/VA appropriations bill also takes several steps to ensure that all segments of the diverse veteran population have access to necessary VA programs and services. "I believe this bill would be beneficial to both our armed forces and veterans and I am hopeful that it is preserved as the House considers amendments." Below is a list of highlights of funding levels and other key provisions in the Military Construction, Veterans Affairs Bill: BACKGROUND & BILL HIGHLIGHTS: FY18 Mark: $88.166 billion FY18 OCO: $638 million FY17 Enacted: $82.326 billion FY17 OCO: $432 million President's Request: $ 89.377 billion MILCON/VA IN GEORGIA: Defense-Wide 10.3 million for the Fort Gordon Blood Donor Center Replacement Army $28 million for the Fort Benning Training Support Facility $10.8 million for the Fort Benning Air Traffic Support Tower $51 million for the Fort Gordon Access Control and Instructional Facilities Air Force $9.8 million for the Robbins Air Force Base Commercial Control Vehicle Center Navy / Marine Corps $17.7 for the Fort Gordon Naval Operational Support Center $43.3 million for the Marine Corps Logistics Base – Albany, GA Combat Vehicle Warehouse Replacement Air National Guard $32 million for the Robins Air Force Base Consolidated Mission Complex MILITARY CONSTRUCTION FUNDING: $10.223 billion, an increase of $2.077 billion above the FY 2017 enacted level and $197.58 million below the President’s request, is provided for Military Construction programs. The total funding for Reserve Components is $574.7 million, which is $98 million above the FY 2017 enacted level, and equal to the President’s budget request. The bill fully funds the 2018 budget request for Family Housing construction at $1.407 billion, which is $130 million more than the FY 2017 enacted level. The bill fully funds the 2018 budget request for the BRAC account at $291 million, $51 million above the FY 2017 enacted level. The bill recommends a 25 percent increase in military construction to support new construction efforts to improve readiness and preserve the quality of life for military personnel and their family members. VETERANS AFFAIRS: The Committee recommendation includes a $78.329 billion in discretionary funding, which is $ 3.9 billion above the 2017 level, and $ 383.9 million below the President’s request. It also provides critical support for the VA's newly identified needs, such as mental health and suicide prevention, opioid abuse prevention, homelessness, and long-term care. It provides measures to improve policies that affect minority veterans and academic partnerships with Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCU). The bill also builds in vigorous oversight on the Electronic Health Record (EHR) by withholding 75% of EHR funds until VA provides the Congress with its plan to procure and implement DoD's EHR system to ensure interoperability.
06.14.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Last night, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) and Congressman Charlie Dent (R-PA) reintroduced the Agent Orange Reconciliation Act of 2017 (H.R. 2891) in an effort to help heal the post-conflict, human cost of war by caring for children living with Spina Bifida due to a Vietnam veteran parent’s exposure to Agent Orange. Spina Bifida requires costly surgeries and extensive medical care because of potential paralysis resulting from damage to the spinal cord. The Agent Orange Reconciliation Act of 2017 would fill gaps in the Agent Orange Benefits Act (Public Law 104-204) by providing a one-time retroactive monetary payment to the families with children enduring with Spina Bifida to compensate for treatment of related symptoms from birth until the date benefits under the original Act were first received. “Our legislation would provide necessary relief for those Vietnam veterans' children suffering with Spina Bifida due to Agent Orange," said Congressman Bishop. "These veterans and their families have been left with the cost of years of medical care directly attributable to the veteran’s wartime service. We owe it to our veterans to care for them and their families, and this legislation would help do just that.” “I’m honored to join my good friend and colleague, Congressman Bishop, in this appropriate effort to provide well-deserved support to these long-suffering families,” added Congressman Dent. “It is my hope that this bipartisan measure will move forward in order to assist the children of our Vietnam veterans who have faced the effects of Spina Bifida as a result of their parents’ honorable service.” The Department of Veterans Affairs presumes a link between Vietnam-era veterans exposed to herbicides such as Agent Orange and the incidences of Spina Bifida in their biological children. The Agent Orange Benefits Act, which became law in 1996, established a benefits package for the children of Vietnam veterans as a result of exposure of one or both biological parents to herbicide during active duty in the Vietnam War. Benefits include lifetime health care services for Spina Bifida and any disability associated with Spina Bifida, a monthly monetary allowance, and VA vocational training and rehabilitation service. The Act authorized the VA to provide such benefits effective October 1, 1997, but not earlier than the date of the VA’s receipt of an individual’s claim for benefits. However, the Agent Orange Benefits Act did not tackle the already incurred medical costs directly correlated to Spina Bifida. According to the VA, approximately 1,200 affected children of Vietnam-era veterans have received compensation since the date benefits under the original Act were first received. While these children became eligible for benefits in 1997, veterans and their families have been left with the cost of years of medical care necessary to treat a child’s birth conditions directly attributable to the veteran’s wartime service. Due to medical advances, most children born with Spina Bifida live well into their adulthood.
06.14.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement on the shooting this morning at a congressional baseball practice in Alexandria, Virginia. Multiple individuals were injured in the shooting, including Congressman Steve Scalise (R-LA), a congressional aide, and Capitol Police officers. “I am deeply saddened by this senseless shooting. It is a direct attack on our democratic values. My thoughts are with those that were injured and their families, and I pray for a full and swift recovery for all that were impacted by this tragedy.” “Furthermore, I want to recognize and thank the Capitol Police officers on the scene. Their heroism prevented further injury or loss of life, and for that we are in their debt.”
06.06.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) is encouraged by yesterday’s announcement by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, David Shulkin, that the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) will implement the same electronic health records platform as the Department of Defense (DoD). “I have advocated for fully interoperable health records between the VA and Department of Defense for over a decade and am pleased by Secretary Shulkin’s decision to implement the same platform at the VA as currently used by DoD,” said Congressman Bishop. “This decision should ensure interoperability between the two departments and help provide a seamless transfer of medical information when service members transition to veteran status. I look forward to working with the VA to ensure this implementation occurs in a swift and successful manner.” Further background on the Secretary Shulkin’s announcement can be found here.
05.26.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement today in recognition of this upcoming Memorial Day on Monday, May 29, 2017: “This Memorial Day, I am humbled as I reflect and remember all those who have sacrificed their lives in defense of our nation. We are grateful to the men and women who paid the ultimate price for our life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. Although we can never truly repay the debt we owe to them and their families, today we can take a pause from our daily routines and demonstrate our thankfulness for their sacrifice. “While we take time today to remember the fallen, let us extend our thoughts and prayers to the brave and courageous military members selflessly serving today. We wish you and your families a very safe Memorial Day.”
05.24.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, delivered the following opening statement earlier today during the subcommittee’s hearing on the budget for the U.S. Department of Agriculture. Video and background on the subcommittee hearing can be found here. Below is Congressman Bishop’s full statement as prepared: Thank you Mr. Chairman and welcome Mr. Secretary, Mr. Young, and Dr. Johansson. Mr. Chairman, I am especially pleased to be here today as we have our subcommittee’s first hearing following the Budget Request released by the Administration yesterday. It also gives me great pleasure to welcome to the committee my friend of longstanding from Georgia, Secretary Sonny Perdue. Having worked with the Secretary in his various capacities as a State Senator, a constituent of Houston county, and Governor of Georgia, I know firsthand of his professionalism and passion for rural America. I believe that the cooperative relationship we developed over the years will prove to be a great asset as we work together with you, Mr. Chairman, to ensure our farmers, ranchers, foresters, agribusinesses, and consumers have the resources they need to prosper in today’s competitive and global environment. I have a lot of respect for the Secretary, who grew up on a farm, became a trained veterinarian, and a successful Agri-businessman who I know is uniquely familiar with the importance of supporting farmers, ranchers, producers, and consumers. And he has a clear vision for the Department in doing just that! I am excited to work with him to advocate for this Nation’s farmers and rural communities. As many of you have heard me say before, Georgia is a major agriculture state, with 42,000 farms, contributing $71 billion annually to the state and national economies. Georgia is number one in the nation for the production of poultry, peanuts, pecans, blueberries, and privately owned timberlands. My district, specifically, leads the state in peanuts, cotton, pecans, fruits and vegetables, as well as family-owned timberlands. More importantly, of the 29 counties that I represent, 26 of those counties are rural, with average populations between 10,000 to 15,000 people. These counties are some of the most economically disadvantaged counties in the state and the nation: meaning they face severe challenges in healthcare, nutrition, rural housing and utilities, broadband, and economic development and persistent poverty. Agencies under this subcommittee’s jurisdiction, and especially the US Department of Agriculture, are vital to their economic wellbeing, and the economic wellbeing of rural communities similarly situated all across our nation. Which is why it is vitally important that programs affecting rural American be well-funded and why we are here today. Mr. Secretary, during your confirmation hearing you told members of the Senate Agriculture Committee that you support programs to fund agricultural research, develop infrastructure in rural communities, and help landowners preserve soil and water quality. Well….I do too and that’s why I was severely disappointed – as I am sure you were – to see that all of these programs face severe cuts under the President’s recently submitted budget. In fact, overall, this budget cuts the USDA by $3.8 billion (or 19%) compared to Fiscal Year 2017 levels, or a cut of $4.8 billion (26%) if you take into account the proposed offsets. Mr. Chairman and Mr. Secretary, I am deeply concerned about the impact of these proposed cuts on the Department, and on the nation as a whole. It’s been reported that these, and other, cuts are to offset the proposed increase in Defense, Homeland Security, and Veterans Affairs. While I recognize and deeply appreciate the importance of strengthening our military, supporting our Veterans, and keeping our country safe, it appears that the Administration is doing that at the direct expense of the citizens we are supposed to protect. We are duty bound to uphold the laws of this country and that includes promoting the general welfare of its people. To me, that means we are to feed and clothe our citizens by using sound scientific best practices to ensure a safe and abundant food supply. The USDA is THE department to do just that, but how can that happen with a 13% cut in research? How can we do that with a proposed budget that zeroes out the Watershed and Flood Prevention Operations Account and the Watershed Rehabilitation Program, which were funded at $162 million in Fiscal Year 2017? And how can we do that with a whopping 30% cut to Rural Development --a cut not comparable to any budget in the last 17 years? This proposed budget zeroes out 502 single family direct housing loans; many smaller housing programs; the water and waste disposal program; and all rural business and cooperative programs. It does propose a new account called “Rural Economic Infrastructure Grants,” funded at $162 million, which appears to consist of distance learning and telemedicine, broadband, community facility, and home repair grant programs. We look forward to receiving more information about this as the process of formulating our bill continues. Additionally, the reductions proposed to Farm and Foreign Agricultural Services is quite troubling. Of the nearly $2 billion reduction, $1.8 billion is from zeroing out the Food for Peace and McGovern-Dole programs. Most of the balance comes from the Farm Services Agency. Mr. Secretary and Mr. Chairman, I feel compelled to mention that there are eight drastic legislative proposals to cut nearly $200 billion in mandatory funding from the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (or SNAP), otherwise known as food stamps, over the next ten years. I, and virtually all of my colleagues who value the admonitions from Jesus in the 25th chapter of Matthew regarding the “least of these,” are strongly opposed to this wrong-headed attempt to save money by cutting a program that helps children, seniors, people with disabilities, veterans, and adults struggling with low wages and/or temporary joblessness to avoid hunger. These proposals do not match our Nation’s values and fail the test of basic human decency. We as a Nation can and should do better for the most vulnerable among us. Mr. Chairman, I have concerns with some aspects of the current proposal to reorganize the department. As I said in my statement on the matter, we are carefully reviewing the proposed reorganization, which would make a number of changes; including moving the Rural Development agencies to report directly to the Secretary via an Assistant; establishing a new Under Secretary for Trade and Foreign Agricultural Affairs, which would oversee the Foreign Agricultural Service; and creating a new Farm Production and Conservation mission area. We need to see how this revised chain of command would impact our country’s rural communities. We will be analyzing these proposed reforms to ensure they would make Rural Development, and the other forward facing customer service interaction arms of USDA, more streamlined, less onerous, and more responsive. Mr. Secretary, I believe that you will honestly try to bring positive changes to the USDA and, like you, we are always looking for ways to do things more efficiently. My concern is that you are not being allowed to ask for sufficient resources and staffing. Like you, Mr. Secretary, I want to ensure that the resources this Committee provides are used correctly and efficiently, and most assuredly that you and the USDA have the necessary resources to successfully carry out its mission. There are limits to doing more with less, and it appears that in OMB’s haste to make good on one promise they have now told the American public that they expect less with less. You cannot squeeze blood from a turnip and the budget submitted yesterday attempts to do just that. Mr. Secretary, you have said that you will make rural America a priority and I know without a doubt that you want to do that. However, we both know that this budget does the exact opposite of fulfilling that promise. With that said, Mr. Secretary, I apologize for the length of my opening statement, but I pledge to do my best to work with you, Chairman Aderholt, our subcommittee, and our colleagues on both sides of the aisle in the House and the Senate to make this USDA the most effective, the most efficient, and the most customer service oriented USDA in our country’s history. Thank you for your commitment. Mr. Chairman, thank you for the opportunity to welcome Secretary Perdue and share my concerns. I yield back.
05.23.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) issued the following statement concerning the release earlier today of President Donald Trump’s Fiscal Year (FY) 2018 Budget Request: “Budgets reflect values. They reflect a prioritization of scarce resources, and are a signal of what an administration does and does not care about. “In today’s dangerous world, the President’s FY18 Budget Request shows the administration rightfully values our national defense and military readiness. However, it is a mistake to simply support our national defense at the expense of our country’s non-defense programs and agencies. Our non-defense programs directly support our nation’s economic and social vibrancy. They support the health, education, and nutrition of our citizens, and our service members. If we do not invest in the non-defense side of the budget, our nation will be weaker, and our military less able to do its job. “Unfortunately, instead of making America great, this budget, when taken as a whole, would make America starve. It seeks to slash much needed investments in agriculture, child and adult health, disease research, Social Security disability, nutrition assistance, before and after school programs, student aid and loan assistance, job training, economic and business development, housing assistance, and scientific and environmental research. This budget would cut flood and disaster assistance, and would dramatically reduce investments in desperately needed civil engineering projects. “The proposed cuts included in this request would inhibit our nation’s ability to innovate in an increasingly competitive world. These cuts would drastically curtail vital safety nets for our most vulnerable populations and would put the health of our children and seniors at risk. They would hurt the farmers that cultivate our food, and the inspectors that keep it safe. “In summary, the President’s FY18 Budget Request is inhumane. Fortunately, the President must ultimately work with Congress to pass a budget, and I look forward to working with my colleagues to craft a budget that, unlike what has been put forth by the President, actually reflects our priorities and values as Americans and strengthens our country.”
05.22.2017	MACON, GA – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) will hold a Town Hall Meeting in Macon, GA on Thursday, June 1, 2017 from 5:30pm to 7:30pm. The Town Hall will provide a forum for the discussion of current policy issues being debated in Congress. The town hall will take place at Central Georgia Technical College inside the auditorium located in Building H. Macon Town Hall Meeting Thursday, June 1, 2017, 5:30pm – 7:30pm Central Georgia Technical College Building H 3300 Macon Tech Drive Macon, GA 31206 The event is free and open to the public.
05.18.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement responding to the appointment of former FBI Director Robert Mueller as special counsel to oversee the investigation of Russian government efforts to influence the 2016 presidential election and related matters: “I support Deputy Attorney General Rosenstein’s appointment of former FBI Director Robert Mueller as special counsel to lead the investigation into Russia’s alleged collusion and interference with the 2016 presidential election. While this is significant step towards restoring the trust and confidence back into the United States justice system, the next and most important step will be for Congress to establish a non-partisan commission that is completely independent of the administration.”
05.12.2017	ALBANY, GA – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, is carefully analyzing the proposed reorganization of the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), which was announced yesterday by U.S. Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue. Among a number of changes, this proposed reorganization would move the Rural Development agencies to report directly to the Secretary of Agriculture, rather than to an Under Secretary. "I am encouraged by Secretary Perdue’s recognition of the vital role rural America plays in providing food and fiber for America and the world," said Congressman Bishop. "To ensure rural America always has a strong advocate, Secretary Perdue has proposed reorganizing the Rural Development agencies to report directly to the Secretary and not through an Under Secretary. This is new territory, and I will be paying close attention to how this revised chain of command would impact our country’s rural communities. I will be analyzing these proposed reforms to ensure they would make Rural Development, and the other forward facing customer interaction arms of USDA, more streamlined, less onerous, and more responsive.” Under the proposed USDA reorganization, the Department believes it would allow for a more direct line of communication between USDA leadership and the primary agency serving rural America. However, this change would also eliminate the Under Secretary of Rural Development position, a Senate confirmed post, which does raise some concerns. Additionally, Secretary Perdue proposed establishing a new Under Secretary for Trade and Foreign Agricultural Affairs, which would oversee the Foreign Agricultural Service. Secretary Perdue also proposed a new Farm Production and Conservation mission area. This domestically focused mission area would house the Farm Service Agency, the Risk Management Agency, and the Natural Resources Conservation Service. By combining these agencies under one organizational structure, USDA anticipates that it would be able to streamline program delivery for U.S. agricultural producers. Congressman Bishop looks forward to working together with Secretary Perdue, colleagues in Congress, and all rural and agricultural stakeholders to strengthen rural communities and ensure America can continue to produce and export the highest quality, the safest, the most abundant, and the most economical food and fiber in the industrialized world. Further background on the proposed reorganization can be found here.
05.10.2017	ALBANY, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement responding to the firing of FBI Director James Comey: "I was shocked by the President's action to fire FBI Director James Comey during an ongoing investigation of his campaign's alleged improper ties with Russia. It is now clearer than ever that the active investigation should be undertaken by an independent, non-partisan special commission. This is the only way to restore the American people's trust and confidence in our justice system. I urge the President and Congress to support the creation of an independent, non-partisan commission."
05.08.2017	ALBANY, GA – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) announced the winners of the 2017 Congressional Art Competition at a ceremony held Friday evening at the Albany Arts Council in Albany, Georgia. This year’s first place was earned by the work of Khalil Brown from Dougherty Comprehensive High School in Albany, Georgia. His winning piece of artwork was created with graphite and will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year for thousands of visitors, Members of Congress, and staff to appreciate. “I would like to thank all the talented students of the Second Congressional District that submitted their fantastic artwork for the 2017 Congressional Art Competition. It was a competitive field this year, but I am happy to congratulate our first place winner, Mr. Khalil Brown,” said Congressman Bishop. “Art provides a productive and illuminating outlet for one’s ideas and emotions, and our region’s students clearly demonstrated their substantial artistic skill and passion.” All submitted works of art were created by the imaginative high school students of Georgia’s Second Congressional District. The works of art were judged by a panel of five independent judges: Mr. Adrian Jenkins from Jenkins Photography; Ms. Erin Freeman, Director of Business Development at the Albany Advocacy Resource Center; Ms. Zina Whitaker, Office Manager at Southwest Georgia Area Health Education Center; Ms. Camille Floyd, recent Albany State graduate with a BS in Art; and Ms. Chloe Hinton, Director of Education and Public Programming at the Albany Museum of Art. Each spring since 1982, the Congressional Institute has sponsored a nationwide high school visual art competition to honor and encourage artistic talent across the nation. For one year, the winning artwork selected by participating Members will be displayed in the United States Capitol. First Place Khalil Brown Dougherty Comprehensive High School (Albany, GA), 12th Grade Graphite – “Broken Emotions” Second Place Alexa Martinez Rutland High School (Macon, GA), 12th Grade Colored Pencil, Cardboard, & Collage – “She’s tired, let her sleep” Third Place Adam Carithers Rutland High School (Macon, GA), 12th Grade Colored Pencil on Paper – “American Shepherd” Honorable Mention Caroline Owens Deerfield Windsor School (Albany, GA), 12th Grade Acrylic Paints on Canvas – “Raspberries”
05.05.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement concerning his vote against the misguided legislation to dismantle the Affordable Care Act (ACA), which passed the full U.S. House of Representatives yesterday in a vote of 217 to 213: “I strongly opposed the House passage of the healthcare legislation to dismantle the Affordable Care Act. This bill jeopardizes the healthcare of Americans across the country. If this legislation is also approved by the Senate and signed into law, it is anticipated that 24 million Americans would lose their health insurance. This bill eliminates guaranteed coverage for essential health benefits, including emergency room care, prescription drug coverage, preventative care and chronic disease management, ambulatory patient services, inpatient hospitalization, newborn and maternity care, pediatric care, mental health care and addiction services, lab services, as well as rehabilitation services. These essential health benefits are currently guaranteed for all insurance plans, and the removal of these guarantees would impact all Americans. This bill also leaves up to the states whether to protect those with preexisting conditions such as hypertension, asthma, a history of cancer, and many others. Should a state waive such protections, those with preexisting conditions would be forced to move to another state to obtain affordable coverage. “With the enactment of the Affordable Care Act (ACA) in 2010, the United States had joined the rest of the industrialized world in providing healthcare coverage for its citizens. The Affordable Care Act has guaranteed that the over 550,000 individuals with health insurance in the 2nd Congressional District of Georgia have access to essential health benefits. It has provided all policyholders with important consumer protections such as coverage for preexisting conditions and prohibitions on lifetime limits, and it has helped close the Medicare prescription drug donut hole. “Instead of working to improve on the progress we have made, the bill passed by the House yesterday turns back the clock. If it becomes law, it will roll back healthcare services for millions of Americans both in Georgia and across the country and dramatically increase uninsured rates and healthcare costs. “I adamantly urge my colleagues in the Senate to reject this disastrous piece of legislation, and I call on the House, the Senate, and the administration to instead come together to improve the Affordable Care Act by fixing its flaws and by building on the great strides it has already made toward providing affordable healthcare to all Americans.”
05.04.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement regarding the death of Clay County native, 1st Lieutenant Weston Lee, who died Saturday while serving in Iraq. “I am deeply saddened to learn of the death of 1st Lieutenant Weston Lee,” said Congressman Bishop. “He served our country as an Army Ranger and an officer and paid the ultimate sacrifice. On behalf of all Americans, I extend heartfelt condolences to his family and friends and our deepest gratitude for his service and sacrifice.”
05.03.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Ranking Member of the U.S. House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies, released the following statement regarding his support of the bipartisan Fiscal Year (FY) 2017 Omnibus Appropriations government spending bill. The bill was approved today by the full U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 309 to 118. “Earlier today, the U.S. House of Representatives came together in a bipartisan manner to pass an Omnibus funding bill to avoid a government shutdown, an outcome that would have been damaging to communities and families across the country. This Omnibus legislation includes necessary funding for the defense and non-defense needs of our country. “The Omnibus includes $400 million in Community Development Block Grant funding for disaster assistance. It increases funding for early childhood education, and on the other end, provides one million additional Pell grants for those seeking higher education. It also enhances our nation’s research posture with an additional $2 billion for medical research at the National Institutes of Health. “On the defense side of things, the Omnibus bill provides $15 billion in additional resources. It fully funds the previously authorized 2.1 percent pay raise for our service members, and provides additional funding to address readiness shortfalls and to invest in the operation and maintenance of our facilities. It also makes contingent a portion of new resources on the administration providing a long-term strategy for dealing with ISIS and Syria. “As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, I am pleased that the Omnibus provides additional resources for agriculture research, food and plant health programs, the Farm Service Agency, and Rural Development. It specifically expands telemedicine, broadband access, and STEM distance learning. “However, this Omnibus legislation is not perfect, and I am disappointed that a number of vital provisions were left on the cutting room floor. Last minute politics led to the removal of much needed cottonseed policy language, which would have addressed the severe economic circumstances impacting the U.S. cotton industry. This is an important issue that I will continue to focus on, particularly as Congress debates an upcoming Farm Bill.” The Omnibus includes 11 appropriations bills. It provides funding for the remainder of FY2017 for the majority of discretionary governmental programs, with the exception of Military Construction and Veterans Affairs which was previously provided full FY2017 funding through legislation passed in September 2016. Additional information regarding the Agriculture section of the FY2017 Omnibus can be found here. Additional information on the whole FY2017 Omnibus appropriations bill can be found here.
04.27.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, the Lugar Center and Georgetown University’s McCourt School of Public Policy unveiled their most recent update to the annual Bipartisan Index, ranking Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) as the 16th most likely U.S. Representatives to work across party lines during the 114th Congress. The Index is a non-partisan tool, ranking all 535 members of Congress on their willingness to reach across the aisle by evaluating legislation sponsorship and co-sponsorship data. “It is an honor to be recognized on the Bipartisan Index, and I thank the Lugar Center and Georgetown University’s McCourt School of Public Policy for recognizing the importance of bipartisan cooperation,” said Congressman Bishop. “If we are to serve our districts effectively, we must be willing to work across the aisle. We must focus on our common goals, instead of our narrow divisions. And we must recognize that solving the difficult issues facing our country will require a collaborative and deliberative approach to governance.” “Despite the highly charged political environment of the past several years, Congressional bipartisanship did improve in the 114th Congress as compared to the 113th Congress,” said Lugar Center President Richard G. Lugar, who served for 36 years as a Republican senator from Indiana. “The Index shows that many senators and representatives raised their scores in the 114th Congress, so we are encouraged to see that even many lawmakers with strong ideological positions have found more common ground with their colleagues across the aisle. Cooperative efforts to address real challenges is what the American people want to see from their leaders, and we are hopeful it will be a growing trend during the 115th Congress.” “Good policy requires effective politics,” said Edward Montgomery, dean of the McCourt School. “We are never going to solve the policy challenges we face without cooperation between our political parties. We are encouraged to see more members of Congress reaching out to work with those across the aisle. ” The update to the Bipartisan Index measures bipartisanship during the full 114th Congress, including both 2015 and 2016. The data shows overall improvement in bipartisanship when compared to data for the 113th Congress (2013-14), which was one of the most partisan Congresses of the past 20 years. For more information on the current and previous rankings, The Lugar Center, or Georgetown University’s McCourt School of Public Policy, please click here.
04.27.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) authored a letter to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers concerning the ongoing hydrilla infestation in Lake Seminole. In the letter, Congressman Bishop urged the Army Corps to dedicate sufficient resources to control the hydrilla growth and preserve the natural ecology of Lake Seminole. Congressman Bishop also called on the Army Corps to adequately prioritize and restore functionality to the Water F. George lock and dam, which is currently closed to all commercial and recreational traffic. The full text of the letter can be found below: April 26, 2017 Brigadier General C. David Turner, P.E. Commanding General, South Atlantic Division United States Army Corps of Engineers 60 Forsyth Street SW Atlanta, GA 30303-8801 Dear Brigadier Turner: I am writing concerning the Army Corps of Engineers’ efforts to treat aquatic weeds (hydrilla) at Lake Seminole and Lake Walter F. George in Southwest Georgia. Earlier this month, I hosted a Town Hall meeting in Donalsonville, Georgia that focused on the impact of the hydrilla infestation in Lake Seminole. Colonel James DeLapp from the Army Corps of Engineers’ Mobile District Office, discussed his plan to control hydrilla growth to an audience of local elected officials and residents. I am concerned that the strategy he outlined will not be adequate to address this crisis as it only covers less than 55 percent of Lake Seminole leaving a massive area of the body of water untreated that will allow the undesirable spread of the aquatic plant. I also was troubled to discover that the Walter F. George Lock and Dam is considered the Army Corps of Engineers’ lowest priority. From my understanding, the lock and dam will remain closed to all commercial and recreational traffic until it is fully restored; however, the required repairs remain unscheduled and unfunded. Furthermore, the current level of service at the lock and dam is at level six which is the Army Corps’ lowest lock and dam management priority. As a result, the low priority continues to impact the recreational and the economic sustainability of the local community. I am requesting that the Army Corps of Engineers dedicate a sufficient amount of resources to the underfunded efforts to control the hydrilla growth in public use areas and to preserve the natural ecology of Lake Seminole. In addition, I urge the Army Corps of Engineers to adequately prioritize and restore complete the functionality to the Walter F. George lock and dam. Thank you for your attention and support on this matter. If you have any questions please contact Patrick Newbold on my staff at (202) 225-3631. With warmest regards, I remain Sincerely yours, Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. Member of Congress
04.26.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Last night, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (D-GA) honored the life and contributions of the late Congressman Dawson Mathis on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives by reading the below statement into the Congressional Record. Following the statement, Congressman Bishop led the full U.S. House of Representatives in a moment of silence in recognition of Congressman Mathis. -- Mr. Bishop of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, it is with a heavy heart and solemn remembrance that I rise today to pay tribute to an outstanding public servant and friend of longstanding, the Honorable Dawson Mathis. Sadly, Congressman Mathis passed away on Monday, April 17, 2017. A memorial service will be held on Saturday, April 29, 2017 at 2:00 p.m. in Nashville, Georgia. A Georgia man through and through, Dawson Mathis was born on November 30, 1940 in Berrien County to Marvin Wilbur Mathis and Nell Dawson Abell. He attended South Georgia College (now South Georgia State College) in Douglas. Before seeking public office, Dawson made a name for himself as the anchor and news director at WALB-TV in Albany, Georgia from 1964 until 1970. That year, the young 29-year-old Dawson was elected to represent Georgia’s Second Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives. He served on the House Agriculture Committee, where he was a staunch advocate for the farmers, ranchers, and producers of the district and the nation. He was known for working with lawmakers across the aisle to find common ground that would best serve the interests of Americans across the country. In 1980, Congressman Mathis ran unsuccessfully for the United States Senate. After being defeated in 1982 to regain his House seat, Congressman Mathis became a lobbyist in Washington, D.C., advocating on behalf of groups including Georgia peanut growers. George Washington Carver once said, "No individual has any right to come into the world and go out of it without leaving behind distinct and legitimate reasons for having passed through it." Indeed, Congressman Dawson Mathis devoted many years of dedicated service to the people of Georgia through his meaningful contribution of energy, skill, and genuine passion, and for it, he will be remembered for years to come. On a personal note, Congressman Mathis was one of my predecessors in serving the Second Congressional District of Georgia and I was blessed with his friendship, counsel, and mentorship over the years. Congressman Mathis was a great representative for Southwest Georgia and Rural America and I looked up to him as an example of how a public servant should serve his constituents. Mr. Speaker, my wife Vivian and I, along with the more than 730,000 residents of Georgia’s Second Congressional District, salute Congressman Dawson Mathis for his outstanding public service and his everlasting commitment to improving the quality of life for our citizens. I ask my colleagues in the House of Representatives to join us in extending our deepest condolences to Congressman Mathis’s family and friends during this difficult time. We pray that they will be consoled and comforted by an abiding faith and the Holy Spirit in the days, weeks and months ahead.
04.25.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, released the following statement congratulating former Georgia Governor Sonny Perdue on his confirmation as Secretary of the U.S. Department of Agriculture by a Senate vote of 87 to 11: “I welcome Sonny Perdue as the new Secretary of the U.S. Department of Agriculture. Having known and worked with Sonny in his various capacities as a State Senator and Governor, I know firsthand his professionalism and his passion for rural America. The cooperative relationship we have developed over the years will prove a great asset as we work together to ensure our farmers, ranchers, foresters, agribusinesses, and consumers have the resources they need to prosper in today’s competitive and global environment.”
04.19.2017	Throughout my career in Congress I have maintained a reputation for working across the aisle to craft and enact sensible policies and sensible budgets on a bipartisan basis. My only litmus test has been whether a particular bill, budget, resolution, or other action will improve the lives of the hard working people of the Second Congressional District of Georgia. This principle has guided my actions since I was elected to Congress 24 years ago. And when analyzing President Trump’s 2018 Budget Blueprint with this metric, I am led to the inescapable conclusion that the President’s budget would be a recipe for disaster for our country and for the people of the Second Congressional District of Georgia. This is a bipartisan conclusion. My colleague on the House Appropriations Committee and its former Chairman, Congressman Hal Rogers (R-KY), has himself expressed disappointment over the “draconian, careless, and counterproductive” cuts included in President Trump’s Budget Blueprint. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-SC) has stated that this budget is “dead on arrival.” House Agriculture Committee Chairman Michael Conaway (R-TX) noted that the proposed budget “could hamper some vital work” of the U.S. Department of Agriculture. House Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Ed Royce (R-CA) voiced concern over its “deep cuts that could damage efforts to combat terrorism, save lives, and create opportunities for American workers.” Budgets reflect values. They reflect a prioritization of scarce resources. Although a President’s proposed budget is just the beginning of a lengthy negotiating process with Congress, it is nonetheless a signal of what that administration does and does not care about. Unfortunately, this administration’s 2018 Budget Blueprint speaks loud and clear that it does not value rural communities nor their contributions to the United States. This budget seeks to eliminate vital programs and reduce resources for our workers, our farmers, our students and teachers, and our seniors. This budget would inhibit our nation’s ability to innovate in an increasingly competitive world, and would drastically curtail vital safety nets for our most vulnerable populations. Georgia is an agriculture state with 42,000 farms, and agriculture contributes $71 billion annually to the state and national economy. Likewise, Georgia's 2nd Congressional District, which I have the honor of representing, is an agriculture district, leading the state in peanuts, cotton, pecans, fruits, and vegetables, as well as family-owned timberlands. Of the 29 counties in the congressional district, 26 are rural, with average populations of between 10,000 to 15,000 people. We are a major contributor to the $133 billion worth of agriculture products that the United States exports annually. And never forget that a nation is only as strong as its ability to feed its people. Our country does that and more due to agribusiness that emanates from rural communities in Georgia and across America. By proposing a cut of over 20 percent to the USDA, it is clear that the current administration does not appreciate the role our agriculture sector plays in sustaining our quality of life, nor the vital role USDA plays in supporting both rural communities and the nation more broadly. The President’s budget seeks to eliminate funding for rural infrastructure, cut staffing at USDA Service Centers, and reduce rural business assistance. Instead of creating efficiencies, such cuts would simply make it harder for everyone, and ultimately more difficult for our country to continue to produce the highest quality, safest, most abundant, and most economical food and fiber in the industrialized world. The President’s budget would cut funding for the Department of Education by 13 percent. It would end programs that provide support and training to frontline educators. It would eliminate Impact Aid, which provides assistance to school districts whose tax base is limited due to federally owned land, including military bases. Most troubling, it would cut before and after school programs, as well as summer programs, which provide a vital educational support system for students, and are also often a key source of nutritional support. With the world growing increasingly more competitive, and science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) becoming increasingly important, eliminating such foundational programs for our students is a major step in the wrong direction. The President’s budget proposes double digit cuts to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). It would completely eliminate the Community Development Block Grant Program (CDBG), which supports small towns and cities across the nation. CDBG provides states and localities with the flexibility to target their own unique needs. Last year, this program funded $8 million in water infrastructure and neighborhood revitalization projects across the Georgia’s Second Congressional District alone. It also helps fund Meals on Wheels programs nationwide. Furthermore, CDBG is used to supplement FEMA assistance and help communities, such as Albany, rebuild after disasters. Under President Trump’s budget, this resource would disappear completely. Such cuts would directly, dramatically, and negatively impact the people of the Second Congressional District of Georgia. Fortunately, as I noted earlier, the President must ultimately work with Congress to pass a budget. As a member of the House Appropriations Committee, and the top Democrat on the Agriculture Appropriations Subcommittee, I look forward to working with the administration, and with my congressional colleagues on both sides of the aisle, to formulate a budget that protects and strengthens rural communities. It is imperative that we craft a budget that recognizes not only the importance of a strong national defense, but also the importance of strong communities, strong schools, and a strong agricultural base. U.S. Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. has represented Georgia’s 2nd Congressional District covering Middle and Southwest Georgia since 1993. A member of the House Appropriations Committee, Congressman Bishop serves as Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, and also sits on the Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veteran Affairs and the Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government. Congressman Bishop is ranked Number 13 on the Bipartisan Index created by the McCourt School of Public Policy and The Lugar Center.
04.18.2017	ALBANY, GA – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) issued the following statement concerning the passing yesterday of former Congressman Dawson Mathis. “I was deeply saddened to learn of the passing of my friend of long standing, former Congressman Dawson Mathis,” said Congressman Bishop. “He was a great representative for Southwest Georgia and Rural America and he served his community with distinction. Our nation has lost an exceptional public servant, and I have lost both a trusted friend and mentor. The people of the Second Congressional District are grateful for his service and extend their sincerest condolences to his family.” Congressman Mathis passed away on Monday, April 17, 2017 at the age of 76. He previously represented the Second Congressional District of Georgia from 1971 to 1981. Prior to his service in the U.S. Congress, he was an anchor and news director for WALB-TV in Albany, Georgia from 1964 to 1970.
04.17.2017	ALBANY, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) invited high school students from Middle and Southwest Georgia’s 2nd Congressional District to participate in the 36th Annual Congressional Art Competition. "The 2017 Congressional Art Competition has begun, and we look forward to receiving entries from students in the 2nd Congressional District," said Congressman Bishop. "This competition allows Congress to recognize the tremendous artistic talents of our young constituents." All participants will be invited to attend a reception at the Albany Arts Council on May 5, 2017 at 5:30pm where all submissions will be on display and a winner will be announced. The winner of this year’s competition will have his or her artwork displayed for one year in the Cannon Tunnel, a busy underground walkway to the U.S. Capitol from the House office buildings and will have the unique opportunity to join Congressman Bishop at a national awards reception in Washington, D.C. All artwork must be submitted to Congressman Sanford D. Bishop’s Office at 235 West Roosevelt Avenue, Suite 114 in Albany, Georgia no later than May 1, 2017. The official competition rules can be found here. For more information, please contact Toni Pickel in the Albany District Office by email at toni.pickel@mail.house.gov or by phone at 229-439-8067.
04.14.2017	COLUMBUS, GA – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) will hold a Town Hall Meeting in Columbus, GA on Tuesday, May 9, 2017 from 5:30pm to 7:30pm. The Town Hall will provide a forum for the discussion of current policy issues being debated in Congress. The event will take place in the auditorium of the Columbus Public Library. Columbus Town Hall Meeting Tuesday, May 9, 2017, 5:30pm – 7:30pm Columbus Public Library Auditorium 3000 Macon Rd. Columbus, Georgia 31906 The event is free and open to the public.
04.03.2017	DONALSONVILLE, GA – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) will hold a Lake Seminole Hydrilla Town Hall Meeting in Donalsonville, GA on Thursday, April 13, 2017 at 6:00pm. Congressman Bishop will be joined by Colonel James DeLapp, Commander of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Mobile District, who will provide the community with an update on the Army Corps’ plan to address Hydrilla growth this season and beyond. The event will take place at the Seminole County Courthouse. Lake Seminole Hydrilla Town Hall Meeting Thursday, April 13, 2017 at 6:00pm Seminole County Courthouse 200 S. Knox Avenue Donalsonville, GA 39845 The event is free and open to the public.
03.24.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) issued the following statement concerning the America Health Care Act, known as TrumpCare, being pulled from consideration on the House floor: “Although I would have preferred to have had the opportunity to vote against this misguided legislation, I am pleased that my Republican colleagues have recognized the significant problems inherent in the TrumpCare bill. Now that this dangerous legislation has been pulled from House consideration, I am hopeful that we can instead come together to improve on the progress we have made with the Affordable Care Act. “From the start, the TrumpCare bill has been a raw deal for the people of Georgia’s Second Congressional District, the State of Georgia, and the entire nation. It would have made health care less affordable and less accessible across the board. “TrumpCare would have eliminated the vital Essential Health Benefit standards that were guaranteed by the Affordable Care Act. It would have allowed insurers to withhold coverage for outpatient care such as doctor’s visits for the flu, limited or eliminated coverage for costly emergency room visits, and left parents on the hook for tens of thousands in costs for newborn and maternal care, as well as pediatric care. It would have allowed insurers to cut coverage for mental health and substance use disorder services, physical therapy, and preventative services such as cancer screenings and vaccines. “TrumpCare would have also slashed Medicare and Medicaid funding for seniors, and included cuts that would have negatively impacted rural health care, including already struggling rural hospitals and safety net providers. “Most shockingly, TrumpCare would have led to the loss of healthcare for 24 million people nationwide, doubling the number of uninsured. This includes a loss of health insurance for 450,000 Georgia residents in the first year alone. “It is for good reason that TrumpCare was withdrawn from the House floor. It was opposed by AARP, the American Medical Association, the American Hospital Association, nurses and physicians, patients, consumer groups, and the citizenry at large. If we want to make America great again, we need to ensure that it is healthy. TrumpCare would have done the opposite.”
03.16.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) issued the following statement concerning President Donald Trump’s Fiscal Year (FY) 2018 Budget Blueprint: “Although I support a robust national defense and addressing our readiness needs, we must not do so at the expense of our non-defense programs and agencies. “The President’s proposed FY18 Budget Blueprint would have a devastating impact across many sectors of our nation’s economy. By slashing much needed investments in agriculture, student aid, job training, economic development, and housing assistance, the budget blueprint is a far cry from the President’s promise to make America great. These cuts would directly harm Rural America and the farmers that cultivate our food. They would inhibit our nation’s ability to innovate in an increasingly competitive world, and they would drastically curtail vital safety nets for our most vulnerable populations. “This budget blueprint is a recipe for disaster for our country.”
03.15.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) issued the following statement concerning the passing earlier this week of Congressman Eligio ‘Kika’ de la Garza: “It is with a heavy heart, but also fond memories, that I reflect on the passing of my old friend and mentor, Congressman Kika de la Garza. He was a champion for both his constituents in Texas and for rural communities all across America. “Congressman de la Garza served as Chairman of the House Agriculture Committee for 14 years, and when I first entered Congress in 1993, I served under his leadership and tutelage on the committee. He understood the importance of agriculture. He understood that agriculture was the backbone of rural communities across the country, and he understood that a safe and robust food supply also protects our national security. He had a keen sense of justice and served as a diligent leader for the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. “Kika de la Garza was a true public servant during his time in the U.S. Navy, the U.S. Army, the Texas House of Representatives, and the U.S. Congress. May we never forget his commitment to his country and his contributions to social and economic justice for all.”
03.10.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Yesterday, the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, led by Ranking Member Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) and Chairman Robert B. Aderholt (AL-04), hosted a Members’ Day hearing to receive testimony from other Members of Congress on their agriculture priorities for the 115th Congress. Turnout was robust and included ten Democrats and twelve Republicans. During the hearing, Members highlighted key agriculture programs affecting both rural and urban communities, including rural housing services, Farm Service Agency loans, adjusting eligibility criteria for rural programs, and Zika virus diagnostic development at the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Members also spoke out on the need to ensure adequate funding for the Agriculture Research Service (ARS) and National Institute of Food and Agriculture (NIFA), as well as the importance of funding vital food safety nets, including the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) and the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC). "Agriculture touches every aspect of our lives from the paper we write on, the clothing we wear, the food we eat, the water we drink, to the raw materials used to build and furnish our homes,” remarked Congressman Bishop during the hearing. “A healthy agricultural community translates to a healthy society for us all." "I am very pleased that we have members from each party here today providing their thoughtful insight as we drive towards FY18," Bishop continued. "Despite the few philosophical differences we may have, today’s turnout further demonstrates that agriculture is important to everyone no matter where we live." The House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture has funding jurisdiction over the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), FDA, the Farm Credit Administration, and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. In addition to funding the USDA’s farm programs, the funding provided by this subcommittee serves as the primary conduit to support rural America, and supports the administration of our nation's food and nutrition safety net and conservation programs.
03.07.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement concerning the House Republican bill to dismantle the Affordable Care Act (ACA): “With the enactment of the Affordable Care Act (ACA) in 2010, the United States joined the rest of the industrialized world in providing health care coverage for its citizens,” said Congressman Bishop. “In Georgia’s 2nd Congressional District, the implementation of the ACA has led to a 4.7% drop in the uninsured rate. It has guaranteed that the over 550,000 individuals with health insurance in the district, both public and private, have access to preventive services like cancer screenings and flu shots without any co-pay. It has provided all policyholders with important consumer protections such as coverage for pre-existing conditions and prohibitions on lifetime limits, and it has helped close the Medicare prescription drug donut hole.” “Instead of working to improve on the progress we have made, House Republicans have proposed a bill that would jeopardize the ability of our citizens to lead healthy and productive lives. Their plan would eliminate a number of the vital protections provided by the ACA. Uninsured rates would rise, health care costs would increase, and millions of Americans both in Georgia and across the country would lose their access to important health care services. It makes little sense for Congress to be rushing headlong into this disastrous policy that could significantly impact so many lives.”
03.01.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) issued the following statement regarding President Trump’s address to a Joint Session of Congress: “During last night’s address, the President spoke of unity. He spoke of protecting our national security. He spoke of rebuilding our infrastructure, creating new jobs, strengthening our health and child care systems, and encouraging women in entrepreneurship. These are laudable goals and vital issues that must be addressed. “However, the administration’s actions so far are not aligned with many of the promises we heard last night. The administration’s plan to repeal the Affordable Care Act would leave hundreds of thousands of Georgians without health care. The administration’s actions on immigration have stoked fear and chaos around the country and damaged local law enforcement’s ability to build in-roads with many of the communities they serve. The administration’s budget would slash funding for child care, food and nutrition, and education. “Ultimately, rhetoric and action are two different things, and the devil is always in the details. I have not yet seen any detailed policy plans that will constructively address the vital issues discussed last night, nor have I seen a true willingness from the administration to transparently match its actions with its words of unity and bipartisanship.”
02.16.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop Jr. (GA-02) and Congressman Drew Ferguson (GA-03) praised the United States Army’s decision to add a Security Force Assistance (SFA) Brigade to Fort Benning. This brigade will add 500 positions to Fort Benning and is in addition to the 85 positions that were announced last week. “It is a great day for Columbus and Southwest Georgia,” said Congressman Bishop. “The addition of a Security Force Assistance Brigade further enhances the already vital role that Fort Benning has in global operations. The Army's decision underscores Fort Benning’s ability to efficiently develop and provide support for our foreign allies, and highlights Fort Benning’s role as a key national security asset." “This announcement is a testament to Fort Benning’s key role as one of our nation’s most valuable Army bases,” said Ferguson. “For almost a hundred years, Fort Benning has been an anchor to the greater Columbus community, and I proudly welcome these new troops to our area. The addition of the new mission reinforces the central role that Fort Benning and the Columbus area play in strengthening our national security.” The SFA brigade is the first of six newly established units responsible for security force assistance operations in support of U.S. Combatant Commander requirements. The 500 position team will train, advise, and assist U.S. allies with military operations. Standing up the brigade is essential to achieving the nation’s security policies and objectives. Stationing the SFA brigade at Fort Benning aligns the unit with the Training and Doctrine Command's Maneuver Center of Excellence, which owns the Army's security assistance training mission. Last week, the Army announced that 85 positions would move to Fort Benning to support the SFA proponency office and the Military SFA Adviser Training Academy (MATA). The Army plans to activate the new brigade in October 2017.
02.15.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr (GA-02) released the following statement celebrating Black History Month and congratulating Morehouse College for 150 years of cultivating African American Leadership: “This Black History Month, I want to take time to recognize and congratulate my alma mater, Morehouse College in Atlanta, Georgia on its sesquicentennial anniversary. For 150 years, Morehouse has educated, trained, and cultivated African American leaders. “Many notable men gained the knowledge and training at Morehouse that enabled them to become some of the greatest influencers of our time, including Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.; noted theologian, Dr. Howard Thurman; civil rights leader, Julian Bond; filmmaker Shelton “Spike” Lee; Olympic gold medalist Edwin Moses; CEO of the Silicon Valley Community Foundation, Emmitt Carson; and many more. “Morehouse principles often instill a desire for public service to benefit mankind. In the United States Congress, Representative Cedric Richmond, Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus, as well as many staff members and former Members of Congress, hold degrees from Morehouse. U.S. Presidents have relied on alumni such as former Secretary of Homeland Security, Jeh Johnson; former Secretary of Health and Human Services, Dr. Louis Sullivan; former Surgeon General, Dr. David Satcher; and former U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations, James Nabrit. Around the country, state and local governments have been led by alumni such as Maynard H. Jackson, the first African-American mayor of Atlanta, Georgia. “These leaders joined with and rallied alongside the millions of men and women who have contributed to the African-American experience. During Black History Month, we pause to reflect upon the contributions of not just Morehouse College, but also the contributions of all those institutions, including Fort Valley State University and Albany State University in the 2nd Congressional District of Georgia, that have educated and inspired African American men and women across the nation. We remember the struggles that we as a people have endured and we celebrate the victories, all the while drawing inspiration to continue to stand up for equality and for justice. “Indeed, Morehouse College was born out of the death of slavery in America. It guided young black men through the era of segregation in the South, and it continues to empower marginalized populations against the oppression still prevalent in the world today. I congratulate Morehouse on its sesquicentennial anniversary and for its contributions to African Americans of all walks of life.” A video of Congressman Bishop recognizing Morehouse College’s anniversary on the House floor can be found below:
02.15.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr (GA-02) applauds Special Master Ralph Lancaster, Jr.’s recommendation, issued yesterday, that the U.S. Supreme Court deny Florida’s request for a cap on Georgia’s water usage. This recommendation derives from a 2013 lawsuit filed by Florida that seeks to limit Georgia’s usage of water from the ACF Basin, which includes the Apalachicola, Chattahoochee, and Flint rivers. Ralph Lancaster was appointed as a special master by the U.S. Supreme Court to provide a recommendation on the case, and found that Florida had failed to show that a consumption cap was necessary. “Florida’s proposed limit on Georgia’s water use is unfounded and would be devastating to Georgia’s agriculture economy," said Congressman Bishop. "I am pleased by Special Master Lancaster’s recommendation to deny such a cap, and I am hopeful that this recommendation will lead to an imminent conclusion to this dispute.” The recommendation now goes to the U.S. Supreme Court for further consideration.
02.14.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop Jr. (GA-02) issued the following statement concerning the resignation of the President’s National Security Advisor, Michael Flynn: “As a former member of the House Intelligence Committee, I am extremely troubled by the revelations surrounding former National Security Advisor Michael Flynn’s conversations with the Russian Ambassador. In addition to misleading his own superiors, he misled the American people regarding key elements of these conversations. I was particularly disturbed that the U.S. Department of Justice had warned the new administration weeks ago of Michael Flynn’s misleading statements and his potential vulnerability to Russian blackmail, and that no action was taken by the administration prior to his resignation Monday night. “Russian influence on our top security apparatus creates a clear and present danger to the American people. Congress must launch an independent, bipartisan, and bicameral investigation into the extent of Russian efforts to undermine and influence our key institutions, as well as to undermine our national security.”
02.09.2017	FORT BENNING, GA – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr., senior member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies, welcomes the U.S. Army's announcement that Fort Benning in Georgia will serve as the home for two new army organizations under the Training and Doctrine Command's Maneuver Center of Excellence (TRADOC). These two organizations include the Security Force Assistance (SFA) proponency office and the Military Advisor Training Academy (MATA). Designating both the SFA proponency office and MATA under Fort Benning’s Maneuver Center of Excellence supports the Army's preparedness in multinational operations. It also aligns the military training center with its operational component, which is already housed at Fort Benning. “I am excited that the Army has designated Fort Benning as the home of the Security Force Assistance proponency office and Military Advisor Training Academy,” said Congressman Bishop, “Fort Benning is a premier installation for force development initiatives, and these added capabilities will further enhance Fort Benning’s national security profile.” The SFA proponency office develops policy and doctrine designed to train brigade-level commands how to assist and sustain host or regional security forces in support of legitimate combined arms operations. The establishment of MATA institutionalizes the policy and doctrine and develops curriculum used to train the force. These organizations are initially expected to add 85 positions to Fort Benning and are a natural fit with TRADOC and the other capabilities currently present at the Fort. The MATA is set to begin operations on October 1, 2017
02.03.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Yesterday, the Acting Secretary of the Army, Robert M. Speer, presented Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) with the Army Distinguished Civilian Service Medal. The medal was awarded to the Congressman for his work on the Fiscal Year 2017 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations bill, which among many other provisions included full funding for military family housing construction. This honor is the highest form of recognition that can be given by the Secretary of the Army to civilians. The Distinguished Civilian Service Award reflects extraordinary devotion to duty and extraordinary contributions to the effectiveness and efficiency of Department of the Army operations and the economy. To receive this award is considered extremely prestigious within the Department of the Army. “It is with great humility that I receive this award,” said Congressman Bishop. “I thank our service members and their families who have served and continue to serve our country. I have worked hard to ensure our Army personnel are provided the resources they need. However, they are the ones that tirelessly carryout the mission day-in and day-out, and it is important that we never forget or overlook their commitment and sacrifice in defense of our nation.” "This award represents my appreciation for Representative Bishop's work in support of the Army and its Soldiers, Civilians and their Families,” said Acting Army Secretary Speer. “His efforts within the House Appropriations Subcommittee for MILCON/VA in support of the Army, will have lasting positive impact on the Army and its Soldiers. I am grateful for his friendship and steadfast support. I am confident he will continue to be a strong advocate for the U.S. Army and its Soldiers, Civilians, and Families." Congressman Bishop is a longstanding defender of the nation’s armed services, and a strong supporter of the nine military facilities and bases located in Georgia, including Fort Benning, the Marine Corps Logistics Base, and Robins Air Force Base. He has worked to support service members and veterans, as well as the nation’s military construction needs, as a senior member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Constriction, Veteran Affairs, and Related Agencies, and he previously served as the subcommittee’s Ranking Member during the 111th through 114th Congresses. Congressman Bishop also currently serves as Co-Chair of the Congressional Military Family Caucus. Earlier in his congressional career, Congressman Bishop also served on the House Veterans Affairs Committee, the House Appropriations Defense Subcommittee, and the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. Full text of the award certificate can be found below: DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY THE HONORABLE SANFORD D. BISHOP, JR. IS AWARDED THE DECORATION FOR DISTINGUSHED CIVILIAN SERVICE for distinguished service as a member of the United States House of Representatives and Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee for Military Construction and Veterans Affairs during the 114th Congress. Representative Bishop was a tireless public servant advancing congressional support for funding the Army to meet the rapidly evolving threats to our national security and ensuring Soldiers have what they need to succeed. His unwavering support to Army priorities was critical to the Army receiving the necessary resources to support combat, sustain the all-volunteer force, and improve the quality of life for Soldiers, Civilians, and Families. Representative Bishop’s focus on supporting the needs of our Soldiers and their Families specifically regarding improving their overall quality of life was integral to the Committee’s support for ensuring these needs were resourced by the Committee. His proven leadership, advice, and extraordinary insight into legislative matters produced a record of notable accomplishments that helped to make the Army stronger and more resilient. Representative Bishop’s distinctive accomplishments and unwavering commitment reflect great credit upon him, the United States House of Representatives, and the United States of America. Washington, DC SECRETARY OF THE ARMY
01.30.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) and Congressman Austin Scott (GA-08) welcomed today’s passage of the Ocmulgee Mounds National Historical Park Boundary Revision Act (H.R. 538) in the U.S. House of Representatives. The bill was approved by the full House of Representatives by vote of 396 to 8. It now awaits further action in the U.S. Senate. The legislation would expand the Ocmulgee National Monument into Georgia’s first national historical park. The bill, which was reintroduced for the 115th Congress on January 13, 2017, was previously approved by the House by voice vote during the 114th Congress, but was not considered by the full U.S. Senate prior to adjournment last year. “The Ocmulgee Mounds are truly a cultural and archeological treasure,” said Congressman Bishop. “The site of these historic mounds has been inhabited continuously for over 17,000 years, and the ceremonial mounds and earth-lodges that exist today were built over 1,000 years ago. House passage of this legislation is a win for historic preservation and a win for Middle Georgia. I thank all those that have helped push this bill across the finish line here in the House, and I encourage my colleagues in the Senate to follow suit by enacting this legislation into law as swiftly as possible.” “Today’s vote marks an important milestone in many years of effort to bring about increased recognition and enhanced cultural preservation of the Ocmulgee National Monument,” said Congressman Austin Scott. “Our legislation is a welcomed example of what can be achieved when a local community, state leaders, and Members of Congress, from both sides of the aisle, collaborate towards a worthy goal. It was an honor to work with Congressman Bishop on legislation that will provide significant economic, educational, and cultural benefits to Middle Georgia.” The legislation would expand the current Ocmulgee National Monument from 702 acres to 2,800 acres, change the name of the park from “Ocmulgee National Monument” to “Ocmulgee Mounds National Historical Park” to increase name recognition, and authorize a resources study to include recreational activities such as hunting, fishing, and camping. This expansion and improvement will be a fitting tribute to the Native Americans who first came to this historic site during the Paleo-Indian period. The park also will generate tourist revenue for Macon, Georgia and the surrounding areas while educating visitors on the little known fact that different cultures have occupied this land for thousands of years. The mounds and earth-lodges that the Mississippians built to serve as formal council chambers when they arrived in Macon around 900 A.D. remain intact for all to see and appreciate. Ocmulgee National Monument was originally authorized by Congress in 1934 to protect a fraction of the lands commonly known as the 'Old Ocmulgee Fields,' upon which certain Indian mounds of great historical importance are located. The legislation envisioned a large park of approximately 2,000 acres but local citizens could finance the acquisition of only 678 acres by the time it opened in 1936. Today, the Ocmulgee National Monument contains 702 acres. The role of the Ocmulgee National Monument is to "present a story of many stages of prehistoric cultural development, emphasizing the influences of agriculture, the Mound Builder period, and the relationship of these various cultures to each other and to life today." The Ocmulgee Mounds National Historical Park Boundary Revision Act enjoys support from the Inter-Tribal Council of the Five Civilized Tribes (Cherokee, Chickasaw, Choctaw, Muscogee [Creek], and Seminole Nations), which represent over 500,000 Native Americans throughout the United States. The measure is also supported by Macon Mayor Robert Reichert, the Macon Chamber of Commerce, the Macon-Bibb Visitors Bureau, the Macon-Bibb Commission, the Macon-Bibb Economic Development Commission, and the Ocmulgee National Park & Preserve Initiative. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA) have introduced Senate companion legislation for the Ocmulgee Mounds National Historical Park Boundary Revision Act (S. 135). The Senate legislation is currently awaiting consideration by the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee.
01.26.2017	ALBANY, GA – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) welcomed today’s federal major disaster declaration for additional counties in Middle and Southwest Georgia impacted by major storms and tornadoes on January 22, 2017. This declaration is distinct from yesterday’s declaration, which was in response to the storms that occurred on January 2, 2017. This new declaration opens up additional eligibility for federal disaster assistance from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). This second federal major disaster declaration specifically includes FEMA Individual Assistance for Berrien, Cook, Crisp, Dougherty, Turner, and Wilcox counties. FEMA Individual Assistance provides federal resources for impacted individuals and households, including financial assistance for temporary housing, home-repair, and damage to essential household items. This assistance also covers disaster-related childcare, medical, and essential vehicle expenses. FEMA is still reviewing which counties will be newly eligible for FEMA Public Assistance under the new declaration. FEMA’s Public Assistance program provides resources for emergency work and the repair or replacement of disaster-damaged facilities. Finally, the declaration provides statewide eligibility for FEMA’s hazard mitigation program, which provides grants for actions taken to prevent or reduce long-term risk to life and property from natural hazards. “This second, expanded major disaster declaration will be essential to providing much needed resources to those in Middle and Southwest Georgia that were impacted by the severe weather this month," said Congressman Bishop. "Georgians have always proven to be resilient, and this time will be no different. With FEMA’s assistance, we will work together to restore a sense of normalcy to our communities.” Further information on eligibility for FEMA assistance, local resources, and the application process can be found at www.disasterassistance.gov or by calling 1-800-621-FEMA (3362) or 1-800-462-7585 (TTY) for the hearing and speech impaired. Those who use 711 or Video Relay Service (VRS) can call 1-800-621-3362. The toll-free telephone numbers are currently operational from 7 a.m. to 11 p.m. (Eastern Time) seven days a week.
01.25.2017	ALBANY, GA – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) today welcomed the major disaster declaration issued by the President for counties in Middle and Southwest Georgia struck by major storms and tornadoes on January 2, 2017. The declaration opens up potential eligibility for federal disaster assistance from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). The declaration was issued as Congressman Bishop toured storm damage in the City of Albany and Dougherty County. The federal declaration specifically includes FEMA Individual Assistance for Dougherty County. FEMA Individual Assistance provides federal resources for impacted individuals and households, including financial assistance for temporary housing, home-repair, and damage to essential household items. Additionally, this assistance covers disaster-related childcare, medical, and essential vehicle expenses. The declaration also provides FEMA Public Assistance for Calhoun, Dougherty, Early, Miller, Mitchell, Turner, and Worth Counties. FEMA’s Public Assistance program provides resources for emergency work and the repair or replacement of disaster-damaged facilities. Finally, the declaration provides statewide eligibility for FEMA’s hazard mitigation program, which provides grants for actions taken to prevent or reduce long-term risk to life and property from natural hazards. “I am relieved to hear that the initial request for federal assistance has been approved by the President. Middle and Southwest Georgia have faced destructive storms and tornadoes twice this month, and federal resources will be vital for the region’s recovery,” said Congressman Bishop. “I urge the President to also approve the second request for federal assistance for those that were impacted by the tornadoes and storms that pummeled the area on January 22.” Earlier this afternoon, Congressman Bishop joined Georgia Governor Nathan Deal and officials from both the Georgia Emergency Management Agency and FEMA on an aerial survey of storm damage to the City of Albany and Dougherty County. Congressman Bishop later toured the damage to the Albany Marine Corps Logistics Base (MCLB) with Major General Craig Crenshaw, the top Marine commander for worldwide logistics and supply chain and distribution management, and Colonel James Carroll, the commanding officer for MCLB. Governor Deal has formally requested an expedited major disaster declaration for the second round of storms that struck the region on January 22 for both Individual and Public Assistance. This request seeks Individual Assistance for Berrien, Brooks, Cook, Crisp, Dougherty, Turner, Wilcox, and Worth counties. The request also seeks Public Assistance for Atkinson, Baker, Berrien, Brooks, Calhoun, Clay, Colquitt, Cook, Crisp, Dougherty, Lowndes, Mitchell, Thomas, Turner, Wilcox, and Worth counties. In a show of respect for the victims of the storms, Congressman Bishop led a moment of silence on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives along with members of the Georgia and Mississippi Congressional Delegations on January 23. Footage of this moment can be found here. Further information on FEMA assistance and eligibility can be found here.
01.24.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Reps. Kristi Noem (R-SD) and Sanford Bishop (D-GA) today introduced the bipartisan Death Tax Repeal Act of 2017 to fully and permanently repeal the death tax. According to a Joint Economic Committee report, the death tax has removed more than $1.1 trillion in capital from the economy while motivating family businesses and others to reduce savings and limit growth. “While we were still trying to pick up the pieces after my dad died in a farm accident, our family received a letter from the IRS. Because of a tragedy that undermined our sense of security, the death tax was now about to undermine our financial security,” said Rep. Noem. “No family should have to go through what ours did, so I'm committed to seeing this tragedy tax finally repealed.” “I have always believed that the death tax is politically misguided, morally unjustified, and downright un-American,” said Rep. Bishop. “It undermines the life work and the life savings of farmers and jeopardizes small- and medium-sized businesses in Georgia and across the nation.” Rep. Noem, a member of the House Ways and Means Committee, and her family were hit by the death tax after her father passed away in a tragic farming accident. Rep. Bishop has long led the charge to repeal the controversial tax in order to prevent farmers, in Georgia and nationwide, from losing their family farms or being forced to sell much needed land, buildings, or equipment. Sen. Thune led lawmakers in the U.S. Senate as well today in introducing companion legislation.
01.23.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement regarding last night’s storms and tornadoes in Southwest and Middle Georgia: “The storms and tornadoes that struck Albany and the rest of the Southwest and Middle Georgia region yesterday were truly devastating. My heartfelt prayers go out to those who lost loved ones, those who have been displaced, and those who have been otherwise impacted by this tragedy. “Recovery from this disaster will be long and difficult. For the second time this month, we have confronted the worst of Mother Nature. However, I am confident that we will continue to see the best in Human Nature as we come together as a community to support each other during these trying times. “I thank Governor Deal for quickly promulgating emergency designations for the region, including designations for Baker, Calhoun, Clay, Crisp, Dougherty, and Mitchell counties in the 2nd Congressional District. I am coordinating with our partners at the local, state, and federal levels to get additional assistance to the area, and I urge the President to provide comprehensive federal emergency assistance as expeditiously as possible. “Should anyone need information or assistance with contacting their local, state, or federal agencies, please do not hesitate to reach out to my offices in Albany (229-439-8067), Columbus (706-320-9477), Macon (478-803-2631), or Washington, DC (202-225-3631).”
01.19.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Ranking Member of the U.S. House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies for the 115th Congress, issued the following statement on the nomination of former Georgia Governor Sonny Perdue to lead the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA): “I am pleased by the President-elect’s nomination of Sonny Perdue to lead USDA. I have a long working relationship with Governor Perdue since our time as members of the Georgia Senate, and I am confident in his ability to lead the Department. Governor Perdue, a trained veterinarian, is uniquely familiar with the importance of supporting farmers, ranchers, producers, and consumers, as Georgia boasts over 42,000 farms and an agricultural industry contributing over $71 billion annually to the Georgia and national economies. Further, having spent most of his life in Bonaire, Georgia, he knows firsthand the needs, hopes, and aspirations of rural America and will bring exceptional insight to the Department in that regard. “The work carried out by USDA ensures our country remains an agriculture juggernaut, able to ensure food security both here and across the world. In addition to managing the nation’s farm programs, USDA is responsible for our nutrition safety nets, is the primary outlet of support for rural areas, and administers vital land conservation programs. “These responsibilities are important not only for the nation’s economy, but also for our national security. Accordingly, as Ranking Member of the House Agriculture Appropriations Subcommittee, I look forward to working closely with Secretary Perdue to ensure USDA has the necessary resources to successfully carry out its mission.”
01.18.2017	ROBERTA, GA – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), in partnership with Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA), will hold a “Mobile Office Day” in Roberta, Georgia on Wednesday, January 25, 2017 from 10am-12pm. The event will take place at the Roberta Civic Center and will provide local constituents the opportunity to bring issues of concern directly to the staffs of Congressman Bishop and Senators Isakson and Perdue. Mobile Office Day in Roberta Wednesday, January 25, 2017 10:00am-12:00pm Roberta Civic Center 96 Matthews Street Roberta, Georgia 31078 The event is free and open to the public.
01.13.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) and Congressman Austin Scott (GA-08) reintroduced legislation to create Georgia’s first national historical park, entitled the Ocmulgee Mounds National Historical Park Boundary Revision Act of 2017. Concurrently, Senator Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and Senator David Perdue (R-GA) introduced companion legislation in the Senate. The legislation seeks to expand the current Ocmulgee National Monument from 702 acres to 2,800 acres, change the name of the park from “Ocmulgee National Monument” to “Ocmulgee Mounds National Historical Park” to increase name recognition, and authorize a resources study to include recreational activities such as hunting, fishing, and camping. During the 114th Congress, the previous version of the bill successfully passed unanimously through the House Natural Resources Committee and the full House of Representatives. The previous Senate version of the legislation passed the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee but was ultimately held up from full Senate consideration largely due to timing issues. “The Ocmulgee Mounds are a true cultural and archeological treasure to the state of Georgia, and the creation of Georgia’s first national historical park will preserve the important legacy of the site’s past inhabitants for current and future generations,” said Congressman Bishop. “I am pleased to reintroduce this legislation with my Georgia colleagues in the House and Senate. The bill has received strong, bipartisan support in the past, and I am eager to see it enacted into law as expeditiously as possible.” “Ensuring that the Ocmulgee Mounds receive the historical recognition they deserve will have a lasting positive economic and cultural impact in Middle Georgia,” said Congressman Austin Scott. “It is for our constituents in Middle Georgia that we come together in a bipartisan, bicameral manner to reintroduce this legislation that will preserve our state’s history for future generations.” “Designating Ocmulgee National Monument as Georgia’s first national historical park would be an exciting distinction for middle Georgia’s tourism industry, not to mention that it would help preserve its rich historical and archaeological heritage,” said Senator Isakson. “I’m pleased to again introduce this legislation in the U.S. Senate.” “I’m happy to join Senator Isakson and my colleagues in the House in working to expand the Ocmulgee National Monument’s boundary and designate it as a national historical park,” said Senator Perdue. “The site is truly one of our state’s historical treasures and this designation will help protect a piece of Georgia’s rich history.” Due to its history and archaeological importance, expanding Ocmulgee National Monument to Ocmulgee Mounds National Historical Park will be a lasting memorial to how individuals relate to the land and other natural resources. This expansion and improvement will be a fitting tribute to the Native Americans who first came to this historic site during the Paleo-Indian period. The park also will generate tourist revenue for Macon, Georgia and the surrounding areas while educating visitors on the little known fact that different cultures have occupied this land for thousands of years. The mounds and earth-lodges that the Mississippians built to serve as formal council chambers when they arrived in Macon around 900 A.D. remain intact for all to see and appreciate. Ocmulgee National Monument was originally authorized by Congress in 1934 to protect a fraction of the lands commonly known as the 'Old Ocmulgee Fields,' upon which certain Indian mounds of great historical importance are located. The legislation envisioned a large park of approximately 2,000 acres but local citizens could finance the acquisition of only 678 acres by the time it opened in 1936. Today, the Ocmulgee National Monument contains 702 acres. The role of the Ocmulgee National Monument is to "present a story of many stages of prehistoric cultural development, emphasizing the influences of agriculture, the Mound Builder period, and the relationship of these various cultures to each other and to life today." The Ocmulgee Mounds National Historical Park Boundary Revision Act enjoys support from the Inter-Tribal Council of the Five Civilized Tribes (Cherokee, Chickasaw, Choctaw, Muscogee [Creek], and Seminole Nations), which represent over 500,000 Native Americans throughout the United States. The measure is also supported by Macon Mayor Robert Reichert, the Macon Chamber of Commerce, the Macon-Bibb Visitors Bureau, the Macon-Bibb Commission, the Macon-Bibb Economic Development Commission, and the Ocmulgee National Park & Preserve Initiative.
01.13.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Earlier today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) was selected to serve as Ranking Member for the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies. In this role, Congressman Bishop will serve as the subcommittee’s lead Democrat. The House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture has funding jurisdiction over the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the Farm Credit Administration, and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. “Being selected as Ranking Member for the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies is an honor and a privilege,” said Congressman Bishop. “In addition to supporting the USDA’s farm programs, the funding provided by this subcommittee serves as the primary conduit to assist rural America, and also supports the administration of our nation's food and nutrition safety net and conservation programs." “Agriculture is the largest industry in Georgia, contributing $71 billion annually to the state’s economy and supporting one in seven jobs. More broadly, our nation is the breadbasket for the world, and we export over $133 billion worth of agriculture products. The strength of our agriculture sector not only supports our economy, but it also helps protect our national security by ensuring a robust food supply here at home and in countries around the world. I look forward to this new leadership role, and I promise to do my dead level best to continue serving the farmers, ranchers, producers, and consumers in Georgia and across this country.” Congressman Bishop will also continue to serve as a member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies. “I am pleased to continue serving on the subcommittee that funds both our nation’s military construction efforts and the programs that care for our nation’s veterans,” said Congressman Bishop. “The work of this subcommittee is of significant importance to the State of Georgia, particularly as we face a new Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) process. Georgia houses nine military facilities and bases, including Fort Benning and the Marine Corps Logistics Base in the 2nd Congressional District of Georgia, as well as Robins Air Force Base right next door. These facilities are of vital importance to the country’s defense posture, and I am committed to fulfilling my responsibilities for our military personnel, past and present, as we go forward through this Congress.” Congressman Bishop will also remain a member of the Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government, which has wide jurisdiction over the U.S. Department of Treasury, the U.S. Trade Representative, the Executive Office of the President, and the nation’s independent agencies. “Georgia companies handle over 70 percent of financial transactions in the U.S., giving the state the nickname ‘Transactions Alley’,” said Congressman Bishop. “As a member of the Financial Services Subcommittee and the Congressional Payments Technology Caucus, I have worked to protect our consumers and foster Georgia’s growing role as a financial transactions hub. I look forward to continuing this mission in the upcoming Congress.” In addition to his subcommittee assignments, Congressman Bishop will continue to serve as Co-Chair of the Congressional Military Family Caucus, Congressional Peanut Caucus, and Congressional Working Forests Caucus, and will remain a member of a number of other caucuses addressing the needs of the people of the 2nd Congressional District of Georgia.
01.11.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Ranking Member of the U.S. House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies during the 114th Congress and Co-Chair of the Congressional Military Family Caucus, issued the following statement on the nomination of Dr. David J. Shulkin to lead the Department of Veterans Affairs: “Through my role on the House Appropriations Subcommittee overseeing the Department of Veterans Affairs, I have had the pleasure of working with Dr. David Shulkin during his service as Under Secretary for Health. I believe he is well qualified to serve as the Secretary of Veterans Affairs. I look forward to continued continuity within the Department and working with him to ensure we provide our veterans with the highest level of quality services.”
01.10.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The Georgia and Federal Emergency Management Agencies (GEMA and FEMA) are slated to begin a joint preliminary damage assessment (PMA) later this week to establish the total costs resulting from the storms and tornadoes that hit Southwest and Middle Georgia early last week. This joint PMA follows a state of emergency being declared in Calhoun, Mitchell, Baker, and Dougherty counties by Governor Deal last Thursday, January 5. The findings of the joint PMA will inform a decision by Governor Deal on whether to request federal disaster assistance. “I thank Governor Deal for his swift action in issuing a state of emergency in southwest Georgia. I saw the destruction in Albany firsthand when I was home this past weekend, and I am pleased that Governor Deal will also be touring the area. The scope of the damage is dramatic, and I urge the Governor to submit a formal request to the President for federal disaster assistance as soon as possible.” A federal disaster designation requires a formal request be made by the Governor to the President. Eligibility requires a collective damage estimate for the impacted areas of $13.8 million, in excess of amounts covered by available insurance. Federal assistance then generally supplements any shortfalls in insurance coverage for impacted parties.
01.05.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop Jr. (GA-02) issued the following statement regarding his support for Israel and his commitment to a negotiated two-state solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict: “Throughout my twenty-four years in Congress, I have been a stalwart supporter of our closest ally in the Middle East, the State of Israel. I am especially committed to Israel’s prosperity and security, and I have long supported security assistance and other protective measures for the nation, including the recent ten-year, $38 billion security aid agreement. “I am also a cosponsor of the Price-Engel-Connolly Resolution, which acknowledges the special relationship between the United States and Israel and our shared values of democracy and rule of law. This resolution notes the United States’ long-standing support for a negotiated two state solution, and condemns boycotts and other campaigns that target Israel. “I am disappointed, however, that the Price-Engel-Connolly resolution was not brought to the full U.S. House of Representatives for a vote. Instead, the House voted on House Resolution 11 (H.Res. 11), which includes inaccurate assertions that the administration’s abstention on U.N. Security Council Resolution 2334 departed from longstanding U.S. policy. Although reasonable minds may disagree, I could not in good conscience support H.Res. 11 due to these inflammatory inaccuracies and the resolution’s potential to undermine the longstanding goal of a negotiated two-state solution. “The U.S. and Israel, like any close allies, have from time-to-time had differences of opinion on a number of discrete policy issues. As my colleague Congresswoman Jan Schakowsky has noted, these policy differences have often played out in the U.N. through U.S. abstentions, contrary to the claims made in H.Res. 11. President George W. Bush’s administration abstained six times on U.N. votes concerning Israel. President Clinton’s administration abstained three times. Going further back, President George H.W. Bush had nine abstentions, President Reagan had twenty-one, President Carter had fourteen, and President Nixon had fifteen. Like the current administration’s abstention on U.N. Security Council Resolution 2334, a number of these past abstentions addressed settlement building, a lightning rod issue that has long been a barrier to resolving the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. “I stand steadfast in my support for a resolution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict that allows these two peoples to live side-by-side in peace. The U.S. House of Representatives should be on record supporting this effort – not further enflaming tensions and providing both sides with cause to retreat from the negotiating table. I am hopeful that going forward I can work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle on more productive measures that enhance Israel’s security and promote peace in the region.”
01.03.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement regarding last night’s storms in Middle and Southwest Georgia: “My prayers go out to all those impacted by the terrible storms that swept through the Middle and Southwest Georgia region. The damage was significant, and my office stands open and ready to assist those affected. “I would also like to note and applaud the ongoing work of our recovery personnel and our first responders. My team and I are working actively with local and county officials, the Governor’s office and state agencies, and with our federal partners to ensure Georgia’s 2nd Congressional District is provided every necessary resource to recover from the storm. “Finally, I urge everyone to remain home as roadways are cleared, and I ask that we all lend a hand to any neighbors in need. Despite the significant work to be done, I am confident that we can come together as a community to recover and rebuild.”
12.08.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) voted in support of H.R. 2028, a short-term measure to fund the federal government through April 28, 2017. Congressman Bishop also voted in support of S. 612, legislation to address the water crisis in Flint, Michigan and to provide financial support for water infrastructure projects across the country. “I am pleased to see that the water contamination crisis in Flint, Michigan is going to be addressed through the Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation Act and the Continuing Resolution,” said Congressman Bishop. “The passage of these pieces of legislation will work to make sure these kinds of crises do not happen in future, as well as fund critical water infrastructure projects to benefit both rural and urban areas of the United States.” The government funding legislation, officially referred to as a Continuing Resolution (CR) (H.R. 2028), passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 326 to 96. The water infrastructure legislation, officially entitled the Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation Act (WIIN Act) (S. 612), passed by a vote of 360 to 61. The CR will fund the government at largely current levels through April 28, 2017. However, the legislation provides an additional $5.8 billion for defense-related Overseas Contingency Operations (OCO), of which $5.1 billion is dedicated to supporting counterterrorism operations, including efforts to defeat ISIL. Another $4.3 billion in OCO funding is provided for non-defense priorities, including Embassy Security, Economic and Stabilization Assistance, Humanitarian Assistance, Security Assistance, and general State Department and USAID operations. Additionally, the CR, in conjunction with an authorization included in the WIIN Act, provides a $100 million appropriation for capitalization grants to Flint, Michigan in order to address lead contaminants and repair service lines and water infrastructure. The legislation also appropriates $4 billion in emergency funding for hurricane damage in North Carolina, South Carolina, and Florida, as well as flood damage in Texas, Louisiana, and West Virginia. Further, the CR appropriates funding for the recently enacted 21st Century Cures Act. The WIIN Act, in addition to authorizing funding for Flint, Michigan, provides an authorization of over $10 billion for water resources development projects that will be carried out by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to address critical water infrastructure projects throughout the United States. Additional information on the CR can be found here, and additional information on the WIIN Act can be found here.
12.07.2016	AMERICUS, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement regarding the shooting in Americus, GA: “This morning in Americus, two law enforcement officers were shot by a gunman near Georgia Southwestern University, which was put on lockdown. One of these officers did not survive his wounds, while the other remains in critical condition. The gunman has been identified and multiple law enforcement agencies are coordinating in an effort to find him and bring him into custody. “We must never forget the sacrifices of our first responders and their families. My condolences go out to the families of the officers, and I pray for the full recovery of the injured. I also pray for a swift resolution to this manhunt, and I have full confidence in the law enforcement agencies searching for the shooter.”
12.02.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) voted in support of H.R. 34, the 21st Century Cures Act, which passed the House of Representatives by a roll call vote of 392-26 on Wednesday. This bipartisan legislation provides $6.3 billion over 10 years to fund innovative research at the National Institutes of Health (NIH), modernize the Federal Drug Administration (FDA), and help prevent and treat opioid addiction. "This legislation represents a major bipartisan effort to enhance our country's medical research capabilities and find cures for cancer and other devastating conditions,” said Congressman Bishop. "Further, it recognizes the importance of treating opioid addiction as the national health issue it is, and will provide impacted communities, families, and individuals the necessary resources to treat this threat." The legislation provides $4.8 billion to fund three major biomedical research priorities. This includes the Precision Medicine Initiative, the Brain Research through Advancing Innovative Neurotechnologies Initiative (BRAIN Initiative), and the Cancer Moonshot, an initiative by Vice President Joe Biden to find a cure for cancer. The 21st Century Cures Act also allocates $1 billion combat the prescription opioid epidemic by improving monitoring programs for prescription drugs, enhancing access to treatment and recovery programs, and training mental health care providers. Finally, the 21st Century Cures Act addresses innovation and modernization within the FDA and provides $500 million over the next 10 years to streamline access to necessary drugs and medical devices. The legislation has now been sent to the Senate for further consideration. For more information on H.R. 34, or to track its progress, please click here.
11.16.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today, U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Secretary Thomas J. Vilsack designated an additional three counties within the State of Georgia as primary natural disaster areas due to severe drought conditions. These counties include Terrell County and Taylor County, located in Georgia’s 2nd Congressional District, as well as Warren County, located between Atlanta and Augusta. This follows a number of similar primary natural disaster area designations due to severe drought conditions in Georgia’s 2nd Congressional District. On November 3, 2016, Crawford, Crisp, Dooly, Lee, Macon, and Sumter Counties received such designations. Muscogee County received this designation on October 21, 2016. Bibb and Peach Counties received a primary disaster designation on September 29, and Talbot County received one on August 11, 2016. “I have been working closely with Secretary Vilsack and his team at USDA, as well as with the U.S. Drought Monitor and our farmers in Middle and Southwest Georgia, to ensure the scope of this drought is fully understood and that our farmers are receiving the help they need,” said Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. “Today’s primary natural disaster designations will open up much needed resources for impacted farmers. However, we have received reports that other Georgia counties are also facing severe drought conditions, and my office remains committed to ensuring all impacted farmers are receiving the appropriate level of assistance.” The designation as a primary disaster area due to severe drought conditions opens up eligibility for certain USDA disaster assistance programs. This specific drought designation provides access to payments from the Livestock Forage Disaster Program (LFP) for grazing losses from drought-affected pastureland and cropland. Congressman Bishop previously worked with Secretary Vilsack to extend the 2016 grazing period for LFP from October 31 to December 1, 2016. This extension ensured that farmers did not automatically lose eligibility to receive assistance as USDA examined the scope of the drought in Georgia. Additionally, the disaster designation also provides eligibility for certain types of disaster loan assistance. The main disaster assistance program triggered by these designations is consideration for low-interest emergency loans. These designations also trigger access to the Disaster Set-Aside (DSA) program, which enables producers with a direct loan from the Farm Service Agency (FSA) to move one annual payment to the end of the loan if the producers are not able to make their payments on schedule. Background on USDA’s disaster assistance programs can be found here, and background on the U.S. Drought Monitor can be found here. A copy of Secretary Vilsack’s designation letter can be found here.
11.15.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) is proud to share that the Georgia Environmental Finance Authority (GEFA) has awarded loans totaling $26.1 million to 12 Georgia communities, including two in Georgia’s 2nd Congressional District. The loans will finance infrastructure improvements for water, sewer, and solid waste treatment plants throughout the state. The City of Damascus in Early County received a $403,000 Drinking Water State Revolving Fund (DWSRF) loan for improvements to the city’s water tank, including repainting and water main and leak repairs. The DWSRF loan is a federally-funded loan administered through GEFA that addresses health-related water supply and water conservation projects. Fort Valley Utility Commission in Peach County received a $1,000,000 Clean Water State Revolving Fund (CWSRF) loan. This CWSRF funding will be used for a new oxygenation system at the Lanter Water Reclamation Facility. The new system is expected to improve the capacity of the facility from 1.7 million gallons per day to 2.2 million gallons per day. CWSRF loans are federally-funded loans administered through GEFA for projects that deal with water quality, conservation, and wastewater treatment, as well as repairs to sewer and storm water projects. “Since 1985, the Georgia Environmental Finance Authority has diligently worked to preserve and enhance Georgia’s energy and water resources.” said Congressman Bishop. “I am grateful for the agency’s attention and dedication to enhancing water infrastructure in Middle and Southwest Georgia.” GEFA has funded more than 1,500 projects and provided more than $3.5 billion in loans for water, solid waste, and sewer improvements since 1985. For the full list of communities awarded infrastructure loans, click here. For more information on CWSRF or DWSRF loans and how to apply, visit GEFA’s website.
11.14.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies and Co-chair of the Congressional Military Family Caucus (CMFC), released a statement honoring our nation's veterans in recognition of Veterans Day: “Today, November 11, is a day of remembrance by which our nation pauses to honor the service and sacrifice of the men and women in our armed forces, past and present. To the veterans across America, whether you served in Europe during the World Wars, in Asia during the Korean or Vietnam Wars, in the Middle East, or elsewhere; whether you served during a period of conflict or peace time; whether you served at home or in lands far away; you have served honorably to uphold the ideals upon which the United States was built. “Your service to protect the freedoms we hold dear is especially important as we reflect on the events of the past week by which Americans across the country participated in the democratic process to cast ballots in favor of their preferred candidates. The preservation of this basic right would not have been possible if not for the Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen, Marines, and Coast Guard who have faithfully served our nation. The peaceful transition of power is a hallmark of the U.S. Constitution which has been diligently defended by our service members and veterans. For that, I am eternally grateful. “As we continue to commemorate the 50th Anniversary of the Vietnam War this Veterans Day, I would like especially recognize the men and women who served during this conflict. May we never again take for granted those who served in harm’s way and may we as a people always care for our veterans.”
11.07.2016	PEACH COUNTY, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement regarding the recent shooting in Peach County, Georgia: “My deepest condolences go out to the family of the Peach County deputy, Patrick Sondon, who lost his life Sunday while serving his community. Deputy Sondon was shot and killed while responding to a dispute between neighbors. A second Peach County deputy was wounded in the same incident and remains in critical condition. “Officers from the Peach County Sheriff’s Office, and from all of our law enforcement agencies across the region and country, put their lives on the line every day to serve and protect our communities. We should never take for granted the risk taken by our first responders and we should respect their sacrifices and those of their families. My heart goes out to all who have been touched by this tragic event, and I pray for the full recovery of the wounded deputy.”
11.04.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – On Tuesday, the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) announced the next phase of its 2016 National Resources Inventory-Conservation Effects Assessment Project (NRI-CEAP). The USDA will be surveying 16,000 farmers and ranchers until February 2017 to document conservation and production practices. This survey will help USDA develop voluntary, science-based solutions and incentives for improving conservation at farms and ranches. Over the past several months, the National Agricultural Statistics Service (NASS) initially reached out to 25,000 farmers and ranchers throughout the United States to determine eligibility to participate in the survey. USDA is now in the process of reaching out to eligible farmers to conduct in-person interviews. “The survey will measure the environmental benefits associated with installing and using conservation practices on agricultural land,” stated NASS Administrator Hubert Hamer in USDA’s announcement on November 1, 2016. “Responses to the survey can directly benefit producers themselves by helping leaders focus on what producers need to install conservation practices that are best for their operations environmentally and financially.” The survey specifically examines the implementation of conservation practices, use of nutrients and pesticides, as well as cropping and irrigation history and grazing patterns. The survey is being conducted in partnership with the Natural Resource Conservation Service. The results of the study will be used to direct USDA’s natural resource conservation policy and program development to help farmers and ranchers conserve farmland and natural resources more efficiently and effectively. The USDA has invested over $29 billion since 2009 to assist in conservation improvements. More information on the USDA’s NRI-CEAP survey can be found here.
11.01.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Sanford Bishop is pleased to share that USDA has extended the end of the 2016 grazing period for the Livestock Forage Program (LFP) from October 31 to December 1, 2016. The grazing period helps determine eligibility for LFP assistance for those farmers impacted by drought. This decision follows a discussion last Friday between Congressman Bishop and U.S. Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack regarding drought conditions in Southwest and Middle Georgia counties. “I would like to extend my sincerest thanks to Secretary Vilsack and his team at USDA for their swift action in extending the grazing period for the Livestock Forage Program,” said Congressman Bishop. “Drought conditions in Southwest and Middle Georgia counties have been disastrous. My office remains committed to working with all stakeholders to ensure appropriate drought designations are made in the region. Secretary Vilsack’s decision will help ensure that our farmers remain eligible to receive the assistance they need as USDA examines the scope of this drought.” Congressman Bishop’s office has collaborated with USDA, the U.S. Drought Monitor, Georgia’s State Climatologist’s office, and the University of Georgia’s Cooperative Extension offices to submit pertinent and accurate environmental data to the U.S. Drought Monitor. Congressman Bishop’s office will continue to work with these organizations to ensure that all farmers experiencing drought conditions in Southwest and Middle Georgia are receiving the appropriate level of assistance. More information on the Livestock Forage Program can be found here.
10.27.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’ (HHS) Administration for Children and Families has announced over $3 billion in funding for the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP). LIHEAP aids low-income families and individuals with bill payments, energy crises, energy efficiency improvements, and energy-related home repairs. Georgia has received $49,887,842 in LIHEAP funding for Fiscal Year (FY) 2017, an increase of over $1 million from FY 2016. Funding was provided through the FY 2017 Continuing Resolution, Public Law 114-223, which was enacted on September 29, 2016. For more information about LIHEAP, click here. For more information about how to apply for assistance, call the National Energy Assistance Referral (NEAR) line at 1-866-674-6327 or contact the Georgia Department of Human Services at 1-877-423-4746.
10.24.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Secretary of Agriculture Thomas J. Vilsack, in accordance with Section 321(a) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act, sent a letter last week designating three counties within the State of Georgia as contiguous disaster areas due to recent drought conditions in Georgia and Alabama. These designated areas include Chattahoochee, Muscogee, and Stewart counties in Georgia. “I am pleased that Secretary Vilsack recognized the need for drought assistance in areas of Southwest Georgia,” said Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. “However, based on concerns I have heard from farmers in the 2nd Congressional District of Georgia, I urge Secretary Vilsack to investigate whether these and additional counties in Middle and Southwest Georgia may themselves also qualify as areas of severe drought, which would open up additional resources for impacted farmers. My office is committed to ensuring that all counties experiencing drought conditions are receiving the appropriate level of assistance.” Receiving a Secretarial contiguous disaster area designation allows farmers within Chattahoochee, Muscogee, and Stewart counties to be eligible for certain U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) disaster assistance programs. The main disaster assistance program triggered by the Secretarial designation is consideration for low-interest emergency loans. This type of designation also triggers access to Disaster Set-Aside (DSA) program, which enables producers with a direct loan from the Farm Service Agency (FSA) to move one annual payment to the end of the loan if the producers are not able to make their payments on schedule. Russell County in Alabama, adjacent to Chattahoochee, Muscogee, and Stewart counties in Georgia, received a primary natural disaster area designation due to severe drought conditions. Should any Georgia counties also independently meet enhanced primary drought designations (D2 to D4) as defined by the U.S. Drought Monitor, farmers may be eligible for additional assistance. This assistance includes access to payments from the Livestock Forage Disaster Program (LSP) for grazing losses from drought-affected pastureland and cropland. Eligibility varies depending on time and conditions, but LSP assistance generally requires a drought designation of D2 (severe drought) for eight consecutive weeks during the normal grazing period. A designation of D3 (extreme drought) or D4 (exceptional drought) anytime during the normal grazing period also opens up eligibility for LSP assistance. Background on USDA’s disaster assistance programs can be found here, and background on the U.S. Drought Monitor can be found here.
10.21.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement on the October 8, 2016 commissioning ceremony for the USS John P. Murtha (LPD 26): “It has been six years since the passing of my dear friend and mentor, former Congressman John P. Murtha. This past weekend, his life and service was honored with the commissioning of the USS John P. Murtha at Penn’s Landing in Philadelphia. “Congressman Murtha’s mission was to make a difference around the world. He was an honored Marine, a husband and father, and a public servant. He always stood, both literally and figuratively, taller than his peers in courage, honor, dignity, and service to others. He was awarded the American Spirit Honor Medal, the Bronze Star with Valor device, two Purple Hearts, and the Vietnamese Cross of Gallantry. “His accomplishments in the armed forces were also paralleled with his distinguished service for the constituents of the 12th Congressional District of Pennsylvania. A Member of the U.S. House of Representatives from 1974-2010, John Murtha was the longest serving Congressman from Pennsylvania, and served as Chairman and Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee’s Subcommittee on Defense. “During his time in Congress, he stood as a champion for our men and women serving in the military. He took a personal interest in the needs of our front line troops and was a staunch advocate for providing our service members with the very best equipment and hardware. He worked tirelessly to ensure our armed services were provided with the resources necessary to remain the greatest military force in the world. “The 10th San Antonio class amphibious transport dock ship in the Navy, the USS John P. Murtha was originally launched on October 30, 2014, christened on March 21, 2015, delivered to the US Navy on May 13, 2016, and formally commissioned as the USS John P. Murtha on October 8, 2016. Much like our great nation, the ship boasts a diverse crew. The ship’s crewmembers represent 50 states and US territories. Approximately 21% of the 400 sailors on the ship are women, and the crew includes immigrants from 16 foreign countries. “The USS John P. Murtha serves as a reminder of the former Congressman’s mission, and advice on how we should all live our lives: that we should all strive to make a positive difference in the world.”
09.29.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) voted in support of H.R. 5325, a Continuing Resolution that funds the federal government past September 30. The legislation continues funding for government operations through December 9, 2016, with the exception of military construction and the Department of Veteran Affairs, which is provided full fiscal year 2017 funding. The legislation also includes $1.1 billion in funding to combat the Zika virus and $500 million to assist communities impacted by recent floods. “I am heartened that Congress was able to come together to avert a government shutdown that would have negatively and dramatically harmed our economy. As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veteran Affairs, I am particularly pleased that the legislation includes full year funding for construction within the Department of Defense and full year funding for the VA and its programs for our nation’s veterans.” “In times of disaster, it is imperative that we come together to support our neighbors. This legislation will help the victims of the recent floods rebuild their lives, and the resources this bill provides to combat the Zika virus will be a boon to communities and families already being impacted by this terrible threat.” The legislation was passed by the full House of Representatives late yesterday evening in a vote of 342 to 85. The Senate passed identical legislation yesterday afternoon in a vote of 72 to 26. The President is expected to sign the bill into law by the end of the week. During the debate on H.R. 5325, Congressman Bishop provided formal remarks on the House floor on the military construction and VA portions of the bill. Video of these remarks can be found here. Additional detail on the contents of the Continuing Resolution can be found here.
09.23.2016	Columbus, GA – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) congratulates Columbus State University on its $1.25 million Museum Alliance grant award from the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA). Columbus State University received the grant in partnership with the Georgia Institute of Technology, the Museum of Aviation Education Center in Warner Robins, and the South Florida Science Center and Aquarium. These organizations will work with NASA’s Kennedy Space Center, through the Innovation Mars Exploration Education and Technology program (IMEET), to educate high school students about the design and production of Mars exploration vehicles. The Kennedy Space Center will be in charge of the program, Georgia Tech will construct a curriculum, and Columbus State University will develop a two-week summer program that utilizes 3D printing technology to teach students about Mars helicopters and rovers. In addition, the funding will allow Columbus State University to hold workshops for local educators to hone their skills in science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) instruction. “The possibility of a Mars landing by the year 2025 is an exhilarating notion,” said Congressman Bishop. “I thank Columbus State University and the Coca Cola Space Science Center for their innovative leadership in science and space education, and I am thrilled that students in southwest Georgia will be at the forefront of this movement.” The Coca Cola Space Science Center, owned and operated through Columbus State University, will host the summer programs established under this initiative. The University will be able to instruct 25 students and 15 teachers per year. For the first few years, the Science Center will work with the Muscogee County School District to recruit participants. As the program progresses, the participants will be selected by the Coca Cola Space Science Center from a larger base of students and teachers. The NASA Museum Alliance is a group of more than 700 U.S. and 90 international museums, science centers, planetariums, observatories, park visitor centers, nature centers, zoos, aquariums, libraries, camps, and youth organizations. The Alliance works to engage NASA‘s resources with community educators, staff, and leadership. The Museum Alliance Grant awarded to Columbus State University was one of nine proposals that was selected out of 73 total applications.
09.22.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement today in recognition of the opening of the National Museum of African American History and Culture this Saturday, September 24: “Today, I would like to take a moment to pay special recognition to an important, forthcoming moment in the American experience. On Saturday, September 24, the Smithsonian will be opening its 19th museum, the National Museum of African American History and Culture. This museum will illuminate the dark pain of the past and also celebrate the tremendous progress of a dynamic people with a complex history. “Built on the National Mall, upon what is colloquially referred to as America’s front yard, this museum has been a dream more than one-hundred years in the making. The initial discussions began in 1915 with the Grand Army of the Republic and the Committee of Colored Citizens – a civil war veterans group that called for a museum to honor Black veterans and the cultural contributions of the African American community. Over the following decades, the concept grew in fits and starts under the backdrop of the Great Depression, World War II, the Cold War and the conflicts in Korea and Vietnam, and the Civil Rights movement. It would not be until 2001 that legislation was finally signed into law that established a Presidential Commission tasked with putting together an implementation plan for the museum. “Robert Lee Wright, Chairman of the Presidential Commission, and his team wasted no time in undertaking their charge. In 2003, the museum commission published The Time Has Come – a report that propelled legislation formally establishing the museum and that itemized all the administrative details necessary to transition the project from a creative vision to a materialized reality. “This was no easy endeavor. Proponents of the museum fought through numerous congressional hearings. Consensus was often difficult to obtain. Debates were had over funding and location, and even over whether there was truly a need for this museum. “As we move closer to Saturday, let us commemorate this crucial patch finally and dutifully being sewn into the quilt of American history. Though the seams may be laden by a past of injustice, let us recall the focal point of this momentous occasion. This museum acknowledges the vital role African Americans played in the evolution of this great nation, extols their cultural contribution to the American experience, and looks forward to the United States fully embracing equality and justice for every citizen.”
09.16.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) is pleased to announce that 16 communities within the 2nd Congressional District of Georgia have been awarded a total of nearly $8,000,000 in Community Development Block Grant Program (CDBG) grants. The CDBG grants were awarded by Georgia Governor Nathan Deal using funding provided by the U.S Department of Housing and Urban Development. The grants will be used to repair infrastructure and revitalize neighborhoods. “I am very excited for the funding granted to the 2nd Congressional District,” said Congressman Bishop. “It will be used for necessary infrastructure and revitalization projects that are vital to our economic development and growth.” The communities that received funding include: City of Arlington: $500,000 for sewer improvements City of Blakely: $500,000 for sewer improvements City of Bronwood: $500,000 for street and drainage improvements City of Cairo: $500,000 for street and drainage improvements City of Camilla: $494,401 for water improvements City of Donalsonville: $500,000 for water improvements City of Geneva: $500,000 for neighborhood revitalization City of Leesburg: $500,000 for sewer improvements Macon County: $500,000 for neighborhood revitalization City of Marshallville: $500,000 multi infrastructure improvements City of Oglethorpe: $500,000 for neighborhood revitalization City of Pelham: $500,000 for sewer improvements City of Perry: $500,000 for neighborhood revitalization City of Roberta: $500,000 for water improvements City of Vienna: $500,000 for multi infrastructure improvements Webster Unified County: $500,000 for street and drainage improvements The Community Development Block Grant Program (CDBG) provides states with funding from the U.S Department of Housing and Development. The grants are administered through Georgia’s Department of Community Affairs (DCA), which works to support local government assistance, affordable housing, and economic development. Created in 1977, DCA works with local communities to foster success for Georgia families and businesses. An additional $29.7 million in CDBG grants was awarded by the DCA to other communities across the state of Georgia.
09.15.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement today in recognition of Hispanic Heritage Month, which runs from September 15 to October 15: “Today begins a month-long celebration in recognition of the contributions of the 56.6 million Latinos that call this great nation home. “Latinos are undeniably part of the great melting pot of America, and their contributions are indisputable. Whether it is the day-to-day work they do for our communities as teachers, doctors, and small business owners, their distinguished service in the Armed Forces, or the clear cultural influences in music, art, and food, Latinos are an enduring part of the American tapestry. “Our nation was built on the foundation that every man and woman who calls this country home should have the right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. To uplift those democratic and noble principles, we must embrace all who embody these American values. Not only is this the right thing to do, but it helps our nation bolster its economic strength and maintain its position as an example for the world. “As we continue celebrating Hispanic Heritage Month and recognizing all that the Latino community does for the 2nd Congressional District of Georgia and the state and nation as a whole, let us never forget the values and beliefs on which this country was founded and let us look forward to achieving equality and justice for all.”
09.14.2016	FORT VALLEY, GA – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), is pleased to announce that Fort Valley State University in Fort Valley, GA has been awarded $30,590 from the National Science Foundation (NSF). The award will be used to broaden and support participation in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) graduate programs for underrepresented minority undergraduate students. Fort Valley State University will use the award for a project entitled “Collaborative Research: NSF INCLUDES: An Integrated Approach to Retain Underrepresented Minority Students in STEM Disciplines.” This project will be led by Dr. Sarwan Dhir from Fort Valley State University, and will be developed in coordination with the University of Georgia, Florida International University, Savannah State University, and Clark Atlanta University. Together, these universities will work to enhance recruitment, retention, productivity, and satisfaction of underrepresented minority students enrolled in STEM programs at research intensive universities. “The award will enable Fort Valley State University and its partner universities in the Southeast to affect lasting change in the success of underrepresented minorities enrolled in STEM undergraduate and graduate education,” said Congressman Bishop. “I am pleased that the NSF is making efforts to support diversity in STEM education, and I applaud their continued focus on the importance of STEM jobs to the American economy.” The project will leverage evidence-based approaches to examine cultural differences that may play a role in the educational outcomes of underrepresented minority STEM students. The project team will also seek to develop a number of scalable strategies and interventions to improve outcomes in STEM. This research project is set to begin October 1, 2016 and is estimated to conclude on September 30, 2018. Originally chartered in 1895, Fort Valley State University is located in Peach County, GA. As a Historically Black College or University (HBCU), Fort Valley State University has a highly commended biology and chemistry department which sends more students of African descent to medical and dental schools than any other state school in Georgia. Established by Congress in 1950, NSF provides grants, contracts and cooperative agreements to fund research and education in the science and engineering fields. NSF funding accounts for around 20% of federal funding to academic institutions. More information on this NSF award can be found here.
09.13.2016	Washington, DC- Congressman Sanford D. Bishop Jr. (GA-02), is pleased to announce that the Rural Development agency of the U.S. Department of Agriculture has approved $14.3 million in project development grants and loans to five recipients in the 2nd Congressional District of Georgia. These recipients include the Fort Gaines Police Department, the Ellaville Police Department, Pataula Charter Academy, the Development Authority of Macon County, and South Georgia Technical College. “The grants and loans awarded by the Rural Development agency will be extremely beneficial for the 2nd Congressional District of Georgia.” said Congressman Bishop. “These resources will be used to improve educational training, increase the use of green technology, and replace outdated equipment.” Pataula Charter Academy in Edison, GA, will receive a $14 million Community Facility Direct Loan in order to build a new educational facility and multi-purpose building. The state commissioned charter school serves Baker, Calhoun, Clay, Early, and Randolph counties, and includes grades K through 12. The Development Authority of Macon County will receive a $99,000 Rural Business Development Grant to purchase a flying saw that will be leased to Enviro Builders, a local company focused on constructing green insulated panels for net zero energy housing. The City of Fort Gaines will receive an Economic Impact Initiative Grant of $50,000 and a Community Facility Loan of $26,800 in order to purchase two new police vehicles for use by the Fort Gaines Police Department. Similarly, the City of Ellaville was awarded a grant of $29,500 and a loan totaling $9,900 under the Community Facility Loan and Grant Program to purchase a new fully equipped patrol vehicle. South Georgia Technical College in Sumter County, GA will receive a Rural Business Development Grant totaling $99,000 to upgrade the college’s truck driving simulator. Students enrolled in the Commercial Truck Driving Program will benefit from the updated tractor trailers and cabs. All five recipients received these grants from the U.S Department of Agriculture’s Rural Development agency, which provides both technical assistance and loans, grants, and loan guarantees to support essential services in rural America. This support is used to help communities with housing, economic development, health care, first responder services and equipment, as well as water, electric, and communications infrastructure.
09.12.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement today to commemorate the 15th Anniversary of the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001: “It has been fifteen years since the attacks on 9/11. It was truly a day that changed everything. As a country, we came to the realization that we are not insulated from the troubles that occur overseas, in regions geographically remote from our own. “We also came to the realization that we can stand united when our fellow countrymen are in need. On that day, we came together to support our fellow Americans, our brothers and sisters. This is a fact all too often forgotten, and one that I think is important to remember on this anniversary. “We persevered through that day as a united America, and despite our differences and our family squabbles, I know we will continue to persevere in future times of need. “I will continue to reflect on that dark day, to reflect on the lives that were lost and the way of life that has been changed forever. However, these lives were not lost in vain. On this day of remembrance, we must remember the strength we showed when we came together as a nation, and on the sacrifices that were made, and that continue to be made, to preserve our freedoms. We must continue to protect those that protect us, our service members, our first responders, our veterans, the families of those that were lost, and our citizenry as a whole.”
09.08.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop Jr. (GA-02), Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, has been selected to receive the Friend of Farm Bureau Award for his dedication to serving America’s farmers and ranchers. Congressman Bishop was nominated by the Georgia State Farm Bureau and approved by the American Farm Bureau Federation (AFBF) Board of Directors. “Agriculture is one of the pillars of Georgia’s economy,” said Congressman Bishop. “I am proud to receive this award and I promise to continue my work on behalf of Georgia farmers, ranchers, and agribusinesses.” The AFBF selects candidates for the Friend of Farm Bureau Award based on their voting records and how well they have supported AFBF priority issue areas. For the 114th Congress, the priority issues are food security and safety, regulatory reform, and access to trade and technology. Congressman Bishop has long been an advocate for the agriculture industry, both in Georgia and nationwide. Through his perch on the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, the Congressman has served as a champion for Georgia’s peanut, cotton, poultry, pecan, blueberry, vegetable, and forestry industries, among others. The State of Georgia has 9.6 million acres of land devoted to farms, including nearly 2.5 million acres in the 2nd Congressional District of Georgia. Agriculture contributes an estimated $74.35 billion annually to Georgia’s economy. The role of agriculture is of paramount importance to the 2nd Congressional District of Georgia. There are an estimated 8,000 farm operators and 5,600 farms in the District. The Farm Bureau is an independent, non-governmental, non-partisan, non-sectarian voluntary organization governed by and representing farm and ranch families united for the purpose of analyzing their problems and formulating action to achieve educational improvement, economic opportunity and social advancement and, thereby, to promote the national well-being. ###
09.01.2016	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) is proud to share that the U.S Department of Veteran’s Affairs (VA) has awarded the Volunteers of America Southeast (VOASE) a $1,000,000 grant to provide and facilitate stable housing for veterans and their families facing the specter of homelessness. “Volunteers of America Southeast has worked diligently to aid veterans and their families in acquiring housing and finding employment,” said Congressman Bishop. “They provide invaluable assistance to the veterans living in the 2nd Congressional District of Georgia and throughout the Southeast.” This grant will provide veterans’ families with outreach, case management, and assistance in obtaining VA and other benefits. Founded in 1896, Volunteers of America is one of the country’s largest human service organizations and helps improve the lives of nearly 1.8 million people each year. VOASE is the second largest affiliate of Volunteers of America in the country and provides programs in Georgia, Mississippi, and Alabama. VOASE serves over 2,000 people daily with their direct programs and 8,000 people annually through community outreach. This grant was awarded through the VA’s Supportive Services for Veteran Families (SSVF) Program, which provided a total of $300 million grants across the country. Over $6 million was awarded to non-profits working throughout the state of Georgia. These organizations included Volunteers of America Southeast, Action Ministries Inc., Decatur Cooperative Ministry Inc., United Way of Metropolitan Atlanta, Travelers Aid of Metropolitan Atlanta Inc., and Central Savannah River Area Economic Opportunity Authority, Inc. More information on VA’s SSVF Program can be found here.
09.01.2016	MACON, GA – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) welcomes the Department of Transportation's determination to continue Essential Air Service (EAS) eligibility for Middle Georgia Regional Airport (MCN). This vital program connects small and regional communities across the country. EAS eligibility for Middle Georgia Regional Airport will help to ensure the airport can expand to include regular commercial services for Macon, Georgia and the surrounding region. “This determination will allow Middle Georgia Regional Airport to increase their range of services,” said Congressman Bishop. “The airport is an important economic engine for the Middle Georgia Region, and I look forward to working with Middle Georgia Regional Airport, Macon-Bibb County, and the surrounding communities to continue to enhance economic opportunities.” Middle Georgia Regional Airport is a city-owned regional airport located outside of Macon, GA. The airport is used for a number of aviation purposes, including aircraft maintenance and repair for large and small aircraft, aerial surveys, charter and recreational flights, and military training exercises. The airport provides approximately $200,000,000 in economic output for the local and regional economies.
08.31.2016	COLUMBUS, GEORGIA – Today, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce presented its Spirit of Enterprise Award to Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (D-GA) in recognition of his support of pro-growth policies during the 114th Congress. The award was presented during a meeting of the Georgia State House of Representatives’ Military Affairs Study Committee held at the National Infantry Museum and Soldier Center in Columbus, Georgia, just outside of Fort Benning. “It is an honor to earn this award from the U.S. Chamber, particularly in a forum that brings together our military, business, and community leaders,” stated Congressman Bishop. “It is vital that we preserve our military installations in Georgia and expand business development opportunities for local communities, and I stand committed to continued work on these goals.” The meeting at the National Infantry Museum was hosted by the Georgia State House of Representatives’ Military Affairs Study Committee. In addition to members of the Georgia House of Representatives, the meeting included Congressman Sanford Bishop, local elected officials, military and community leaders, and members of the local and national chambers of commerce. Senator Johnny Isakson (R-GA) also participated in the afternoon session of the meeting. Attendees examined and discussed how best to protect and support Georgia’s military installations now and in the future. Congressman Bishop spoke yesterday with the Study Committee as it examined similar issues surrounding the Marine Corps Logistics Base in Albany, Georgia. Congressman Bishop also joined Congressman Austin Scott (R-GA) in the Study Committee’s meeting at Robins Air Force Base at Warner Robins, Georgia on Wednesday, August 10. Congressman Bishop has long served as a champion for both the business community in Georgia and for Georgia’s service members and veterans. He currently serves as the Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veteran Affairs and as Co-Chair of the Congressional Military Family Caucus. The U.S. Chamber is the world’s largest business federation representing more than 3 million businesses of every size, sector, and region.
08.18.2016	SPOKANE, WA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (D-GA), Co-Chair of the Congressional Military Family Caucus (CMFC) and Ranking Member of the U.S. House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies joined Co-Chair Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), staff from Congressional offices, officials from the Department of Defense and Fairchild Air Force Base, representatives from military service organizations, and over 60 military family and service members at the annual Congressional Military Family Caucus Summit at Fairchild Air Force Base in Spokane, Washington. “We must remember that when men and women join our armed forces, their families join as well,” said Congressman Bishop. “This understanding led Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers and me to found the Congressional Military Family Caucus nearly seven years ago. This Summit, as well as previous Summits and future Summits, continues the dialogue between families, lawmakers, military leaders, and support organizations to address the unique hardships that military families face. After asking our Active Duty, National Guard, and Reserve members and their families to endure multiple deployments, we in Congress must fulfill our obligation to support increased spousal and widow employment, the education of military children, fair and complete benefits, as well as health care options and coverage. According to Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers, the goal of the caucus is to "bring together Members of Congress, Administration officials, and service members and their families in a common purpose to draw attention to the needs of military families and advocate legislative ideas on their behalf." “The strength of our military is drawn from the strength of their families and we want to do all we can to protect our warriors and their loved ones,” concluded Congressman Bishop. Hosted by Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers, today’s CMFC Summit serves as a direct channel between the Caucus and military families. Held by the CMFC annually, the Summit works to connect military families with Members of Congress, the Department of Defense, and private sector groups to discuss the challenges and pressing issues impacting America’s servicemen and their families as well as offer resources. Panel discussions addressed critical issues including military pay and benefits; military child education; and military spousal employment, community involvement, and transition. The CMFC is a bipartisan congressional caucus that educates elected officials, congressional staffers, senior military leaders and the public on a wide range of unique issues that affect military families. Currently, over 80 Democrats and Republicans are members of the CMFC. For coverage of the 2015 summit at Fort Benning, Georgia, please click here. For coverage of the 2014 summit at Fairchild AFB in Spokane, Washington, please click here. For coverage of the 2013 summit at Fort Benning, Georgia, please click here. For coverage of the 2012 summit at Fort Benning, Georgia, please click here. For coverage of the 2011 summit at Fairchild AFB in Spokane, Washington, please click here. For more information about the Congressional Military Family Caucus, please click here. Below is the full text of Congressman Sanford D. Bishop’s prepared opening remarks at the Congressional Military Family Caucus Summit: Good Morning and thank you for joining us today for this year’s Congressional Military Family Caucus Family Summit (CMFC)! It is a great pleasure to be amongst those who have such a big impact on making America great – our brave men and women in uniform and you who admirably support those that defend our nation and safeguard our liberties. I want to thank my colleague and Co-Chair of the Congressional Military Family Caucus, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris-Rodgers, for hosting the summit this year at Fairchild Air Force Base. For Congresswoman McMorris-Rodgers, many of our colleagues in the Congressional Military Family Caucus, and myself, the issues discussed today are important to us not just because of our constituencies, but due to our deeply personal connection as well. Experiences like my wife’s have taught me that our service members and their families serve and sacrifice together. When men and women join our armed forces, the families join as well! I would be remiss if I did not also thank Colonel Ryan R. Samuelson and Colonel Daniel J. Swain for welcoming us here today. Also, many thanks to our keynote speaker – Michelle Aikman, Armed Forces Insurance Air Force Spouse of the Year - for her participation in today’s event. I commend you for your current, and future, work on behalf of our military families. I would also like to thank our moderators and panelists that will be facilitating the Summit today. Almost seven years ago Congresswoman McMorris-Rodgers and I founded this Caucus to honor the debt our nation holds for the sacrifices military families continue to make. We are deeply grateful to organizations such as Blue Star Families, the Military Child Education Coalition, the Military Officer Association of America, the Red Cross, USAA Military Advocacy, National Military Family Association, and all of the military family support organizations represented here today. Your expertise continues to provide us with background on issues most important to the spouses, widows, and children of military service members stationed across the world. Sometimes it is easy to recognize the sacrifices our service members make without being fully aware of the tremendous hardships their families must endure. We feel it is equally important to educate elected officials, congressional staffers, senior military leaders, and the public on a wide range of issues affecting military families. Additionally, I would like to salute the outstanding work being done on behalf of our military families by First Lady Michelle Obama and Dr. Jill Biden through Joining Forces Initiative as well as Members of the bipartisan Senate Military Family Caucus – cosponsored by Senators Barbara Boxer and Richard Burr. Most of all, I would like to thank the service members, military families, widows, and veterans joining us today. Our nation will forever be grateful for your selfless sacrifices and service to our nation. Congresswoman McMorris-Rodgers and I are incredibly proud to have everyone here today and wanted to kick off the Summit by shining a light on the issues of particular concern to military families; changes to pay and retirement military benefits, challenges for military children, military spouse employment; community involvement; and transition. Over time and at the previous military family summits, the gathered feedback has included: - Mental Health impacts of over a decade at war; - Educational challenges facing military children; - Service members transitioning from active duty service to the civilian sector; and - Health care and caregiver concerns In the past, the feedback received was vital to our efforts in finding policy solutions that benefit our nation’s beloved veterans, widows, and military families. So today, I ask that you feel free to speak your mind and share your personal story. This event will provide our caucus a direction for the rest of the 114th Congress, and it is your input that points us to where we need to go. I am proud of the military families living in my district in Georgia at Fort Benning in Columbus, the Marine Corps Logistics Base in Albany, and the communities around Robins Air Force Base in Georgia. They are a living embodiment of the eternal optimism we hold in our country. They proudly volunteered to join the less than one percent to serve our nation here and abroad, in support of their soldier, sailor, airman, or marine. Truly, military families are the backbone of our military. And after asking our Active Duty, National Guard, Reserve members, and their families to endure multiple deployments, we in Congress must meet our commitment to support increased spousal and widow employment, the education of military children, fair and complete benefits, as well as health care options and coverage. We cannot rest and rely on the progress made in the past. We must continue to work on areas that need improvement, and explore new areas of concern. So, I would ask all those here today, who value our military families, to continue this dialog with us. The members of our Caucus, and other members of Congress, need to hear from you. Your voices are important and extremely powerful. We cannot forget -- military service is about people. How we care for service members and their families, determine the success of the most professional all volunteer force this world has even seen, now and into the future. We hope that you will actively participate in the breakout sessions and help us to work together, improve military families’ quality of life, and expand your opportunities. God Bless. ###
07.18.2016	REPURPOSED FUNDING PLACED TOWARDS ROADWAY IMPROVEMENT, RESURFACING MACON, GA ­­– Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), member of the U.S. House Appropriations Committee, is proud to share that a total of $8,906,763 comprised of repurposed Federal Highway Administration funding from unused Congressional directed funding originally secured by Congressman Bishop and 20% matching funding from Georgia Department of Transportation (GDOT) have been redirected to infrastructure projects in Middle and Southwest Georgia. The original “earmarks” are over ten years old and were either less than 10% obligated, associated with a completed project, or are no longer active. “Our redirected funding allows GDOT to repair and rebuild very important highway projects throughout the municipalities and rural communities of Middle and Southwest Georgia,” said Congressman Bishop. “The construction will assist travelers, commuters, truckers, deliveries, and businesses get where they need to go, helping assure a productive, safe, and economically strong Georgia.” Recent federal appropriations legislation places critical restrictions on projects eligible to be recipients of the funding, including being located within a 50-mile radius of the original project and a requirement that redirected funds be obligated within three fiscal years or be forfeited. $4,367,757 will be put towards the reconstruction and widening of the I-75/I-16 interchange project, greatly improving the safety of the freeway. County and municipal resurfacing and sign upgrade projects will increase productivity and accessibility for communities across Middle and Southwest Georgia. Bibb County - $3,004,425 ORIGINAL Project: Second Street Bridge Replacement/Reconstruct ROW in Macon Redirected Project: Construction I-16 @ I-75 Interchange; Est. Oct/Nov 2016 Bibb County - $500,738 ORIGINAL Project: Pierce Avenue bike lanes from Ingelside Ave. to Riverside Drive Redirected Project: Construction I-75 Northbound from SR 19 to I-16 Phase II; Est. Oct/Nov 2016 Bibb County - $52,642 ORIGINAL Project: Study & report of new interstate linking Augusta, Macon, Columbus, & Montgomery Redirected Project: Construction I-16 from I-75 to SR 87 & Interchange Phase I; Est. Oct/Nov 2016 Bibb County - $157,926 ORIGINAL Project: Study & report of new interstate linking Augusta, Macon, Columbus, & Montgomery Redirected Project: Construction I-16 from I-75 to SR 87 & Interchange Phase I; Est. Oct/Nov 2016 Bibb County - $652,026 ORIGINAL Project: Study & report of new interstate linking Augusta, Macon, Columbus, & Montgomery Redirected Project: Construction I-16 from I-75 to SR 87 & Interchange Phase I; Est. Oct/Nov 2016 Crawford County - $100,656 ORIGINAL Project: Revitalization Project for Roberta Walking Trail Redirected Project: Resurfacing of SR 22 from SR 7 to Columbus Rd; Est. May 2017 Crisp County - $81,259 ORIGINAL Project: US 280/SR 30 widening from Flint River to SR 300 Conn Redirected Project: Resurfacing of SR 300 from Old Coney Rd to SR 300 Conn; Est. April 2017 Crisp County - $200,295 ORIGINAL Project: Streetscape-Cordele Redirected Project: Resurfacing of SR 300 from CR 29/Old Coney Rd to SR 300 Connector; Est. April 2017 Decatur & Miller Counties - $200,295 ORIGINAL Project: Streetscape-Bainbridge Redirected Project: Resurfacing of SR 310 from Decatur County Line to SR1/US27; Est. Feb 2017 Dougherty County - $400,590 ORIGINAL Project: Streetscape-Albany Redirected Project: Resurfacing of SR300 from SR520 to N of CR243/Branch Rd; Est. Nov 2016 Dougherty County - $43,031 ORIGINAL Project: Broad Avenue Bridge, Albany, GA Redirected Project: Resurfacing of SR 91 from Baker County line to SR 62; Est. Nov 2016 Dougherty County - $81,259 ORIGINAL Project: SR 234 widening from Eight Mile Rd to Lockett Station Redirected Project: Resurfacing of SR 91 from Baker County line to SR 62; Est. Nov 2016 Dougherty County - $801,180 ORIGINAL Project: SR 133 Southbound lane bridge replacement over the GA/FL Railnet line Redirected Project: Resurfacing of SR3 from Thomas County line to Dougherty County Line; Est. Nov 2016 TERRELL COUNTY - $801,180 ORIGINAL Project: Construction on U.S. 82 from Dawson to Alabama Line Redirected Project: Resurfacing of SR 55 from Calhoun County line to SR 520/US 82; Est. July 2016 Macon County - $201,390 ORIGINAL Project: Sidewalks, light, landscaping in Montezuma Redirected Project: Resurfacing of SR49 from SR90 to SR127; Est. Nov 2016 Marion County - $300,442 ORIGINAL Project: Sidewalks in Buena Vista Redirected Project: Resurfacing of SR 355 from SR 137 to Talbot County Line; Est. March 2017 Miller County - $81,259 ORIGINAL Project: Reconstruct US 27 from Colquitt to CR 279 Redirected Project: Resurfacing of SR 45 from SR 1 to Early County line; Est. Mar 2017 Muscogee County - $1,205,540 ORIGINAL Project: Infrastructure Improvements at Statewide Military Bases Redirected Project: Sign Upgrade Project on US 80 from Alabama State Line to SR 85; Est. FY17 Muscogee County - $40,630 ORIGINAL Project: Jogging and Bike Trails around Columbus State University Redirected Project: Resurfacing of SR 85 from SR 22 Conn to SR 1; Est. Jan 2017
07.14.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) welcomed reduced wait times for travelers at the Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport (ATL) in response to a bipartisan letter with 10 other members of the Georgia Congressional delegation calling on the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) to deploy additional resources such as additional Transportation Security Officers (TSOs) to address the long wait passengers are experiencing at the world’s busiest airport. “Long security lines cannot be allowed to adversely affect Georgia’s economy by dissuading people from flying through Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport,” said Congressman Bishop. “As the summer rush continues in full force, the announcement of shorter wait times for travelers is welcome news indeed!” On May 27, 2016, Congressman Bishop co-signed a letter to TSA Administrator Peter Neffenger with other Members of the Georgia Congressional Delegation requesting the deployment of at least 100 additional Transportation Security Officers at Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport to counter increased passenger traffic and the resulting long wait times at security checkpoints at the airport. Congressmen Lewis (D-GA), Westmoreland (R-GA), D. Scott (D-GA), Price (R-GA), Loudermilk (R-GA), Johnson (D-GA), Carter (R-GA), Hice (R-GA), A. Scott (R-GA), and Woodall (R-GA) joined Congressman Bishop in the effort. On July 8, 2016, Congressman Bishop received a response from Administrator Neffenger stating that changes implemented at Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport have resulted in significantly reduced wait times. Specifically, for June 26 – July 2, 100% of non-TSA pre-check passengers waited less than 30 minutes and 100% of TSA pre-check passengers waited less than 5 minutes, all while ensuring the safety of the traveling public. To read the bipartisan letter to TSA, please click here. To read TSA’s letter in response, please click here.
07.14.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop (GA-02), co-chair of the Congressional Military Family Caucus, joined a bipartisan group of his colleagues in sponsoring H.R. 5683, the Lift the Relocation Burden from Military Spouses Act; legislation to alleviate the undue stress, expenses, and excessive wait times professionally employed military spouses experience when their family moves for a Permanent Change of Station on military orders. “The inability of military spouses to find and maintain meaningful employment not only has a direct impact on the readiness of the force, but also represents a larger societal cost absorbed primarily by the federal government,” said Congressman Bishop. “The Lift the Relocation Burden from Military Spouses Act will work to address license portability and boost employment for military families across our nation.” The Lift the Relocation Burden from Military Spouses Act will require the Department of Defense to provide a reimbursement for licensing fees up to $500 for each Permanent Change of Station, expedite license portability, and require the Department of Defense to conduct a study to determine ways to improve the military spouse unemployment and underemployment rate. This legislation is supported by the Military Officers Association of America (MOAA), the National Military Spouse Network, and the National Military Family Association. Joyce Wessel Raezer, Executive Director of the National Military Family Association: “Military spouses face many challenges that diminish the stability of their families…with each government ordered move, military spouses incur high costs for recertification or licensure. These delays impact their ability to work and contribute to the financial well-being of their families. This bill will help off-set the cost of government ordered moves to ensure career-military spouses can seek a new licensure or certification and become employed at their new duty location right away.” For more information regarding H.R. 5683, Lift the Relocation Burden from Military Spouses Act, please click here. For more information regarding the recent Joining Forces’ announcement regarding military licensing, please click here. Original cosponsors of this legislation include: Reps. Sanford Bishop (D-GA-02), Brad Ashford (D-NE-02), , Rob Bishop (R-UT-01), Barbara Comstock (R-VA-10), Paul Cook (R-CA-08), Carlos Curbelo (R-FL-26), Chris Gibson (R-NY-19), Walter Jones (R-NC-03), Marcy Kaptur (D-OH-09), Grace Meng (D-NY-09), Beto O’Rourke (D-TX-16), Martha Roby (R-AL-02), Elise Stafanik (R-NY-21), Marc Veasey (D-TX-33), and Rob Wittman (R-VA-01).
07.06.2016	FORT BENNING, GA ­­– Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), co-chair of the Congressional Military Family Caucus is proud to welcome the news that 50 states have taken action on military spouse licensing, as announced by the Joining Forces initiative. “While military spouses are well educated and highly qualified for a range of careers, they face a 26 percent unemployment rate and a 25 percent wage gap compared to their civilian counterparts,” said Congressman Bishop. “Equalizing military spouse licensing requirements between states will lower barriers to finding and maintaining a rewarding career, boosting the quality of life of military families and the readiness of our military force – an announcement everyone can celebrate!” In 2011, First Lady Michelle Obama and Dr. Jill Biden launched Joining Forces, a nationwide initiative calling all Americans to rally around service members, veterans, and their families and support them through wellness, education, and employment opportunities. The same year, Joining Forces issued a call to action to all 50 U.S. governors to take executive and/or legislative action to streamline state licensing for the military community. In collaboration with state legislators and regulators, Joining Forces and the U.S. Department of Defense have helped states adopt simple measures to accommodate the demands of the military and support military spouses as they seek to continue their career. Today, all 50 states have taken action to support the military community by making it easier for military spouses to overcome barriers to employment. By streamlining licensing and credentialing, military spouses – many of whom require licenses – can continue working no matter their location. For more information, please click here.
06.29.2016	COLUMBUS, GA ­­– Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) is proud to share that the National Science Foundation (NSF) has awarded Columbus State University a $230,486 grant for a new Research Experiences for Undergraduates (REU) site focusing on cybersecurity and mobile sensing. The REU site will work in tandem with the Cybersecurity Center at Columbus State, which was recently designated as a Center for Academic Excellence in information Assurance Education by the National Security Agency. “I am eager to see the impact Columbus State University will make on students, the community, the state, and our nation using the resources granted by the National Science Foundation,” said Congressman Bishop. “Affecting national security to personal financial security, the advancement of cybersecurity by the supported Columbus State students will strengthen our country’s future as we face new technical developments and the challenges accompanying breakthroughs.” “We are very proud to have the National Science Foundation support the work of our outstanding faculty," said CSU President Chris Markwood. "These kinds of nationally competitive grants serve as a tremendous validation to the caliber of our professors, and to the quality of the research being done by faculty -- and the students -- at Columbus State University.” Eight undergraduate students per summer will have the opportunity to work with university faculty to learn about mobile computing devices and the sensing components used to secure data. The grant beneficiaries will also participate in professional development activities to learn more about careers in the field of cybersecurity. For more information, please click here.
06.24.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (D-GA) sponsored H.R. 5561, the Max Cleland Congressional Gold Medal Act of 2016. Congressman Bishop was joined by Congressmen Earl ‘Buddy’ Carter (R-GA), Henry ‘Hank’ Johnson (D-GA), John Lewis (D-GA), Rob Woodall (R-GA), Barry Loudermilk (R-GA), David Scott (D-GA), and Tom Graves (R-GA) in presenting the bill in the United States House of Representatives. The legislation is a companion bill to S. 2924 introduced by Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and David Perdue (R-GA). Congressman Bishop issued the following statement regarding the presentation of this award to Senator Cleland. “As a leader on behalf of veterans for over four decades, Senator Cleland has overcome immeasurable obstacles to serve his state of Georgia and the nation. His distinguished career is unrivaled, and it is my distinct pleasure to honor Senator Cleland with this award. Senator Cleland’s life in public service began as a young man when he joined the Reserve Officers’ Training Corps at Stetson University. Following his graduation, he volunteered to serve as an Army Officer in Vietnam, where he was awarded the Silver Star for his bravery at the Battle of Khe Sanh. He later suffered extensive injuries in combat, ultimately losing both of his legs and his right arm. Facing an uncertain future while recovering at Walter Reed Army Medical Center, Senator Cleland fought to overcome his injuries with both resilience and sheer fortitude. “Following his release from Walter Reed, Cleland became the youngest member of the Georgia State Senate in 1970. Seven years later, he was appointed to head the Veterans Administration by President Jimmy Carter. Cleland then served as Georgia’s Secretary of State from 1982 to 1996, after which he was elected to the United States Senate, where he represented Georgia from 1997 to 2003. In the Senate, Cleland advocated for veterans and a strong national defense, helped to institute significant reform at the Department of Defense, and became a respected leader in Congress. Upon leaving the Senate, he served on the 9/11 Commission and is currently the Secretary of the American Battle Monuments Commission, a position to which he was appointed by President Obama in 2009. “The Congressional Gold Medal is the proper means to honor this distinguished American who has given so much and continues to work tirelessly on behalf of the entire nation.” To read more about the Max Cleland Congressional Gold Medal Act of 2016, please click here.
06.23.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. –Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released a statement regarding the recent sit-in over gun control in the U.S. House of Representatives. “Like most other Americans, I am appalled by the recurrent tragedies involving gun violence. No one wants terrorists, criminals, or mentally ill persons to have guns. “As a gun owner and strong supporter of the 2nd Amendment, I believe that the right to own and use guns is not absolute or free from government regulation because firearms are inherently dangerous instrumentalities. Their use, unlike other activities protected by the Bill of Rights, can inflict serious injury or death. Therefore, firearms are subject to reasonable regulation in the interest of public safety, crime prevention, preserving the peace, environmental protection, and public health. “But at the same time, regulation of firearms and individual gun ownership or use must be consistent with civil liberties such as due process, equal protection, freedom from unlawful searches, and privacy. “While I share the frustrations of my colleagues and the American people at our failure to accomplish that, I am working with others of like mind to find a common sense solution to this issue for all Americans.”
06.15.2016	Washington, D.C. –Today, Reps. Sanford Bishop (D-GA-02) and Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) introduced a House Resolution to support the goals and ideals of creating a “Military Retiree Appreciation Day.” “For many of our Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen, and Marines, service does not end with retirement – they are community members, family, and neighbors to us all,” said Congressman Bishop. “And so, Military Retiree Appreciation Day will honor service members’ ongoing commitment to the strength and welfare of our nation, even after the uniform has been hung up after retirement.” “The North Country is home to more veterans than any district in New York, and I am proud to introduce this resolution to honor those who have spent their careers serving our nation,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Military Retirees continue to serve as leaders across our communities, and their patriotism deserves to be honored by a grateful nation.” Background: America’s military retirees represent approximately .5% of its total population. Those who faithfully serve their country for twenty or more years show a dedication to service unrivalled by any other profession. Career military service men and women serve daily with the knowledge that they can be sent anywhere in the world and be asked to make the ultimate sacrifice to protect and defend America’s interests and ideals. Their service is voluntary and often requires decades of extreme personal sacrifices. Currently, these consummate professionals are not officially and separately recognized or honored by the government or people of the United States. The bipartisan resolution introduced today honors the prior and continued service of our military retirees by supporting the goals and ideals of a “Military Retiree Appreciation Day.” Military retirees display proven leadership and commitment to the principles that make our country great, and they deserve this recognition from a grateful nation. This resolution is supported by the American Military Retirees Association. Click here for the legislative text.
06.15.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement regarding the recent shooting that occurred in Orlando, Florida. “Far too often has hate motivated a violent response, and once again, our nation must grieve the unjust loss of our sisters and brothers. Inaction cannot be an option any longer. We have comforted the family of those we have lost time after time, and yet, we have not taken action to prevent similar violence in the future. We cannot wait another day before we take steps to ensure dangerous weapons do not fall into the wrong hands, and we must provide resources to stop those who seek to harm our own. “My heart and prayers go out to the families, the communities, and millions in our nation grappling with this tragic loss, and we will continue praying for those injured and currently recovering. We must find the resolve to prevent these recurring tragedies.”
06.10.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Reps. Sanford Bishop, Jr. (D-GA), Dan Newhouse (R-WA), Suzan DelBene (D-WA), and Elise Stefanik (R-NY) led 98 other Members in a letter to U.S. Labor Secretary Thomas Perez and Director of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services León Rodriguez regarding the administrative breakdown in the timely processing of H-2A agricultural worker program applications and visa petitions. The administrative breakdown is impacting the ability of American ranchers and growers to hire legal seasonal workers in time for planting and harvest, and the Members urge DOL and USCIS to adhere to regulatory requirements to process program applications efficiently and expeditiously: The Members wrote in the letter: “As the instability in the labor force grows, so does the use of the H-2A seasonal temporary worker program. While we acknowledge the need for broader improvements to our legal immigration system and temporary visa program, the H-2A program is the sole legal visa program available to production agriculture although it is limited to labor of a ‘temporary or seasonal nature.’ Although still accounting for less than 10 percent of all seasonal farm workers, employment of H-2A workers has nearly tripled in the past five years. Growth in the H-2A program has occurred despite extreme regulatory hurdles, government inefficiencies, and high costs.” The Members continued: “The need for a legal and reliable work force is so great that farmers use this program despite these concerns. Unfortunately, regulatory roadblocks create even more complexity. For the past two years, H-2A employers have experienced unacceptable delays in the processing of labor certifications, visa petitions, and interviews for final border crossing and arrival on farms and ranches. Already this spring, farmers from all across the country are seeing significant delays at the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) and the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Service (USCIS). Unfortunately, it is also clear that DOL is at times not following the statutory requirement prescribed in law to respond to applications 30 days prior to the farmer’s date of need. These delays are devastating to growers and ranchers that cannot wait to plant, tend, and harvest. DOL must comply with the law, and the failure to comply is unacceptable. This trend leaves growers fearful of a major break-down in the system when peak demand for H-2A workers hits beginning in June.” The Members continued: “In view of the current situation, we urge that the agencies expeditiously process agricultural employers’ H-2A applications where possible. Our farms, our economies, and the livelihoods of our constituents depend upon timely application processing and visa issuance in advance of farmers’ dates of need. In accordance with all rules and regulations, we look forward to your response and your plans to increase the efficiency of the H-2A program to supply the agriculture sector with much-needed labor. We look forward to your timely response.” The view a scan of the letter, please click here. The full text of the letter is included below: June 10, 2016 The Honorable Thomas Perez The Honorable León Rodriguez Secretary, U.S. Department of Labor Director, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration 200 Constitution Ave., NW 111 Massachusetts Ave., NW Washington, DC 20210 Washington, DC 20529 Dear Secretary Perez and Director Rodriguez, We are writing with regard to the serious issues now occurring with the administration of the H-2A agricultural worker program, which are creating a growing number of delays in the timely processing of applications and visa petitions. This breakdown is impacting growers and ranchers who are trying to hire workers in time for the harvest and threatening millions of dollars in perishable agricultural products. America’s farmers and ranchers face continuing and growing labor shortages needed to produce the crops that our nation relies upon. While some segments of the agricultural industry have been able to continue to increase productivity through mechanization, there remain major segments of our agricultural economy that require human labor. As the instability in the labor force grows, so does the use of the H-2A seasonal temporary worker program. While we acknowledge the need for broader improvements to our legal immigration system and temporary visa program, the H-2A program is the sole legal visa program available to production agriculture although it is limited to labor of a “temporary or seasonal nature.” Although still accounting for less than 10 percent of all seasonal farm workers, employment of H-2A workers has nearly tripled in the past five years. Growth in the H-2A program has occurred despite extreme regulatory hurdles, government inefficiencies, and high costs. The need for a legal and reliable work force is so great that farmers use this program despite these concerns. Unfortunately, regulatory roadblocks create even more complexity. For the past two years, H-2A employers have experienced unacceptable delays in the processing of labor certifications, visa petitions, and interviews for final border crossing and arrival on farms and ranches. Already this spring, farmers from all across the country are seeing significant delays at the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) and the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Service (USCIS). Unfortunately, it is also clear that DOL is at times not following the statutory requirement prescribed in law to respond to applications 30 days prior to the farmer’s date of need. These delays are devastating to growers and ranchers that cannot wait to plant, tend, and harvest. DOL must comply with the law, and the failure to comply is unacceptable. This trend leaves growers fearful of a major break-down in the system when peak demand for H-2A workers hits beginning in June. We fully support efforts to ensure that both employers and employees comply with the statutory requirements of the H-2A program. We believe there are significant measures that the agencies involved could, and should, put into place that do not require legislation or even a major regulatory change. Implementing these measures could significantly improve the situation for growers and ranchers while the agencies continue to fulfill their duties to protect the rights of domestic workers and provide for our homeland security. For example, DOL’s Office of Foreign Labor Certification (OFLC) has a policy that is not supported by current regulations which requires all workers requested in any single petition be brought onto the job on the start date of the petition. Under the current delays experienced by growers at both the OFLC and USCIS, there is no opportunity to receive these workers by the date they are actually needed. Growers must be given the opportunity to provide a start date that is earlier than the actual anticipated start date as a “grace period” in an effort to better manage the administrative delays. In addition, the Validation Instrument for Business Enterprises (VIBE) program, as it is currently administered, is inappropriate for the H-2A program. VIBE mandates an annual subscription to Dun & Bradstreet which is an additional expense for growers. It is highly unusual for family farms to subscribe to Dun & Bradstreet except to comply with VIBE. A number of employers have been receiving Notices of Deficiencies (DOL) or Requests for Further Evidence (USCIS) related to proving that agriculture is in fact seasonal in nature. These notices create an unnecessary and untimely delay in the process. Your agencies must recognize that agriculture is inherently seasonal, and analysts in your agencies should be instructed to take all steps possible not to delay the process, especially considering current conditions. In view of the current situation, we urge that the three agencies expeditiously process agricultural employers’ H-2A applications where possible. Our farms, our economies, and the livelihoods of our constituents depend upon timely application processing and visa issuance in advance of farmers’ dates of need. In accordance with all rules and regulations, we look forward to your response and your plans to increase the efficiency of the H-2A program to supply the agriculture sector with much-needed labor. We look forward to your timely response. Sincerely, Rep. Sanford D. Bishop (D-GA) Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) Rep. Suzan DelBene (D-WA) Rep. Elise Stefanik (R-NY) Rep. Ralph Abraham (R-LA) Rep. Rick Allen (R-GA) Rep. Mark Amodei (R-NV) Rep. Brad Ashford (D-NE) Rep. Andy Barr (R-KY) Rep. Dan Benishek, M.D. (R-MI) Rep. Rod Blum (R-IA) Rep. Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR) Rep. Mike Bost (R-IL) Rep. Susan Brooks (R-IN) Rep. Julia Brownley (D-CA) Rep. Ken Calvert (R-CA) Rep. Earl L. ‘Buddy’ Carter (R-GA) Rep. Jason Chaffetz (R-UT) Rep. Mike Coffman (R-CO) Rep. Doug Collins (R-GA) Rep. Chris Collins (R-NY) Rep. Jim Costa (D-CA) Rep. Kevin Cramer (R-ND) Rep. Carlos Curbelo (R-FL) Rep. Rodney Davis (R-IL) Rep. Jeff Denham (R-CA) Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) Rep. Sam Farr (D-CA) Rep. John Garamendi (D-CA) Rep. Bob Gibbs (R-OH) Rep. Chris Gibson (R-NY) Rep. Gwen Graham (D-FL) Rep. Brett Guthrie (R-KY) Rep. Richard Hanna (R-NY) Rep. Gregg Harper (R-MS) Rep. Denny Heck (D-WA) Rep. Jaime Herrera Beutler (R-WA) Rep. Jody Hice (R-GA) Rep. Richard Hudson (R-NC) Rep. Bill Huizenga (R-MI) Rep. Robert Hurt (R-VA) Rep. David Jolly (R-FL) Rep. John Katko (R-NY) Rep. Mike Kelly (R-PA) Rep. Derek Kilmer (D-WA) Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) Rep. Ann Kirkpatrick (D-AZ) Rep. Ann Kuster (D-NH) Rep. Raúl R. Labrador (R-ID) Rep. Doug LaMalfa (R-CA) Rep. Rick Larsen (D-WA) Rep. Frank LoBiondo (R-NJ) Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) Rep. Mia Love (R-UT) Rep. Cynthia Lummis (R-WY) Rep. Thomas MacArthur (R-NJ) Rep. Sean P. Maloney (D-NY) Rep. Thomas Massie (R-KY) Rep. Jim McDermott (D-WA) Rep. James McGovern (D-MA) Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) Rep. Mark Meadows (R-NC) Rep. Grace Meng (D-NY) Rep. Luke Messer (R-IN) Rep. John Mica (R-FL) Rep. Candice Miller (R-MI) Rep. John Moolenaar (R-MI) Rep. Mick Mulvaney (R-SC) Rep. Devin Nunes (R-CA) Rep. Steven Palazzo (R-MS) Rep. Scott Perry (R-PA) Rep. Collin C. Peterson (D-MN) Rep. Bill Posey (R-FL) Rep. Tom Reed (R-NY) Rep. Dave Reichert (R-WA) Rep. Reid Ribble (R-WI) Rep. Harold Rogers (R-KY) Rep. Tom Rooney (R-FL) Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL) Rep. Dennis Ross (R-FL) Rep. David Rouzer (R-NC) Rep. Matt Salmon (R-AZ) Rep. Kurt Schrader (D-OR) Rep. Austin Scott (R-GA) Rep. David Scott (D-GA) Rep. Mike Simpson (R-ID) Rep. Kyrsten Sinema (D-AZ) Rep. Louise M. Slaughter (D-NY) Rep. Adrian Smith (R-NE) Rep. Marlin A. Stutzman (R-IN) Rep. Glenn ‘GT’ Thompson (R-PA) Rep. Fred Upton (R-MI) Rep. David G. Valadao (R-CA) Rep. Juan Vargas (D-CA) Rep. Marc A. Veasey (D-TX) Rep. Daniel Webster (R-FL) Rep. Peter Welch (D-VT) Rep. Lynn A. Westmoreland (R-GA) Rep. Ed Whitfield (R-KY Rep. Rob Woodall (R-GA) Rep. Ted S. Yoho, DVM (R-FL) Rep. Lee M. Zeldin (R-NY)
06.07.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. ─ Today, Congressman Sanford Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies, welcomed the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) creation of the new Cotton Ginning Cost Share Program in order to expand and maintain the domestic marketing of cotton. Through the new program, cotton producers will be able to reduce their costs for the 2015 crop by an estimated $300 million nationwide. “I commend the USDA and FSA for providing relief from the recent burden of high ginning costs endured by cotton farmers across Georgia and the entire nation,” said Congressman Bishop. “A vital program, the new Cotton Ginning Cost Share Program will provide much needed help to American cotton farmers, particularly during the most serious economic challenge faced by the industry in decades.” Through the Cotton Ginning Cost Share program, eligible producers can receive a one-time cost share payment for their gin costs, which is based on a producer’s 2015 cotton acres reported to FSA, multiplied by 40 percent of the average ginning cost for each production region. “I was humbled to work with farmers, agriculture stakeholders, my colleagues in the Georgia Congressional delegation, and Secretary Vilsack at USDA in order to provide much needed support to the cotton industry through the Cotton Ginning Cost Share Program,” concluded Congressman Bishop. The program has the same eligibility requirements as were used for the 2014 Cotton Transition Assistance Program, including a $40,000 per producer payment limit, requirement to be actively engaged in farming, meet conservation compliance and a $900,000 adjusted gross income limit. Eligible producers will be able to sign up beginning June 20, 2016 through August 5, 2016 at their local FSA office. For information regarding Congressman Bishop’s work for the cotton industry, please click here. For more information regarding the Cotton Ginning Cost Share Program, click here.
06.07.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement regarding the passing of boxing legend, civil rights activist, and beloved humanitarian, Muhammad Ali. “Throughout his illustrious career, ‘The Greatest’ taught us many lessons about the passion and dedication needed to overcome seemingly insurmountable obstacles while challenging the norms of exclusion and discrimination. Muhammad Ali was a true champion, not only as a Gold medal winning Olympic boxer and world heavy-weight champion, but also in the struggles for civil and human rights. His steadfast resolve and devout spirituality upheld the burdened and oppressed, even as he faced his greatest challenger – Parkinson’s Disease – outside of the arena. “Muhammad Ali’s fight was our fight, and I personally feel very grateful for the advances he made in the worldwide struggle for human rights throughout his entire career. The most renown athlete globally, I will always treasure the fond personal and shared memories of our champion, and as the world mourns the loss of this American icon, I send my deepest condolences to his family and friends in this time of sorrow. May all those who have drawn inspiration from Muhammad Ali remember those lessons in faith, perseverance, passion, dignity, and grace, allowing us all, in our own way, to ‘float like a butterfly and sting like a bee’.”
05.19.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year (FY) 2017 was approved by the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 277 to 147 and goes to the Senate for its consideration. To support our nation’s service members, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) voted for the passage of H.R. 4909. The agreement authorizes $602.2 billion in discretionary base budget authority, including roughly $543.4 billion for the Department of Defense base budget. Additionally, the legislation provides $58.8 billion in Overseas Contingency Operations (OCO) accounts, $23.1 billion of which will be used to authorize activities outside of Overseas Contingency Operations. “The FY 2017 National Defense Authorization Act investment aims to protect our bases, strengthen our military capabilities, and support those who so bravely put their lives on the line. Unfortunately, the Majority has added a highly controversial budget gimmick in order to shirk their budgeting responsibilities. By using emergency wartime funds to pay for non-wartime activities, Peter robs Paul to pay Mary. Unfortunately, Paul defends our national security and is tasked with defeating ISIS. In time, the Majority’s OCO gimmick will have very real consequences as overseas operations’ funding runs out five months early. Certainly, in today’s uncertain environment, now is not the time to play games with our nation’s national security. “Nevertheless, despite the Majority’s budget gimmick, I cannot vote against the Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen, Marines, and military families relying on this bill’s authorizations, and am hopeful the conference report reflects a more responsible budget agreement and continues Congress’ support for the war fighting effort. Among my highest priorities are the Mission and family readiness at Fort Benning, the Marine Corps Logistics Base in Albany, Robins Air Force Base, at other bases in Georgia, and of the Georgia National Guard -- all of which are vital to our national defense and to our communities, realities that this bill underscores in a very prominent fashion.” The National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2017 is the primary way Congress meets its most important constitutional obligation to provide for the common defense. It authorizes the vital funding required to react and prepare for unprecedented threats, uncertainty, technological change, ensuring the full readiness of the nation’s military. The FY 2017 NDAA supports an average 2.1 % pay increase for military personnel. It also authorizes $7.8 billion for military construction and family housing. On May 17, in a speech to the Navy League, Defense Secretary Ash Carter said, “I am obliged to address the budget gimmickry included in the proposed NDAA in the House…a proposal to underfund DOD’s overseas war fighting accounts…and spend that money on programmatic items we did not request. This approach is deeply troubling and flawed for several reasons. First and foremost, it’s gambling with war fighting money at a time of war – proposing to cut off funding for ongoing operations in the middle of the fiscal year…It’s a step in the direction of unraveling the Bipartisan Budget Act, which provided critical stability that DOD needs…And it’s another road to nowhere, with uncertain chances of ever becoming law, and a high probability of leading to more gridlock and another continuing resolution…Particularly concerning is the potential impact of this proposal on the readiness of our force.” HIGHLIGHTS FOR GEORGIA $4.82 million for a SOF tactical unmanned aerial vehicle hangar at Fort Benning $30.9 million for a personnel recovery 4-bay hanger/helo mx unit at Moody Air Force Base $25 million for a medical clinic replacement at Fort Gordon $29 million for an access control point at Fort Gordon $10.6 million for a company Operations Facility at Fort Gordon $90 million for a cyber protection team ops facility at Fort Gordon $14.8 million for an automated qualification/training range at Fort Stewart For more information regarding the NDAA and its provisions, please click here. ###
05.19.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies, issued the following statement regarding the passage of H.R. 4974, the Fiscal Year 2017 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations government spending bill. H.R. 4974 was approved by a vote of 295 to 129 and now goes on to the Senate for consideration. “The Fiscal Year 2017 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations bill continues to demonstrate strong support for our service members and military construction, but also recognizes the serious challenges remaining in fulfilling our responsibility to veterans and moving the appropriations process forward using the limited resources we have been allocated. “The bill maintains tough but fair reporting requirements for DoD-VA Electronic Health Records integration, prioritizes the elimination of the VA claims backlog, and includes healthy funding for the Board of Veterans Appeals. Additionally, the bill provides necessary funding for military maintenance and construction of military family housing, medical and prosthetic research, and medical facilities. “One item of particular concern is the inclusion of bill language limiting performance awards to Senior Executives at the VA. As I have stated time and again, this language will not provide any solution in the short-term and, in fact, may have more long term consequences by compounding the very problem it attempts to address. By limiting such bonuses, the VA becomes a less attractive option than other agencies when it comes to recruiting and retaining quality executive leaders. Instead, we must do more to attract and retain exceptional talent to the Department in order to better serve the needs of our nation’s veterans. “Another item of concern was the defeat of an anti-discriminations amendment, leaving the door open for federal contractors to discriminate against LGBT employees. Finally, an amendment was added to strike language from the National Cemetery Administration Directive 3220 that allowed the Confederate flag to be displayed on a separate flagpole, subordinate to the U.S. flag, on Memorial Day and Confederate Memorial Day, in cemeteries operated by the Veterans Administration where Confederate veterans are buried in mass graves. While as a descendant of slaves I find the Confederate flag and the history it represents deeply offensive, I believe that the descendants of Confederate veterans should not be denied the privilege of honoring their dead ancestors two days of the year on a flagpole where their beloved are buried in mass graves. “While not ideal, H.R. 4974 does maintain a strong reputation for finding bipartisan common ground as members work together to fund the construction of military facilities and strive to improve the quality of life and care afforded to our veterans and military families.” Below is a list of highlights of funding levels and other key provisions in the Military Construction, Veterans Affairs Bill: BACKGROUND & BILL HIGHLIGHTS: 2017 Mark: $81.6 billion (including Overseas Contingency Operations [OCO]) 2017 Overseas Contingency Operations (OCO): $172 million 2016 Enacted: $79.9 billion 2016 OCO: $0 President's Request: $82.8 billion (including OCO) MILCON/VA IN GEORGIA: Defense-Wide $4.820 million for a Special Operations Tactical Unmanned Aerial Vehicle Hangar at Fort Benning; $25 million for a replacement medical clinic at Fort Gordon; Army $14.8 million for an automated qualification / training range at Fort Stewart; $90 million for a cyber protection team operations facility at Fort Gordon; Air Force $30.9 million for a 4-bay, personnel recovery helicopter hangar at Moody Air Force Base. MILITARY CONSTRUCTION: $5.621 billion, a decrease of $894 million below the FY 2016 enacted level and $120 million below the President’s request, is provided for Military Construction programs. The total recommended funding for the Reserve Components is $676.6 million, which is $122 million above the FY 2016 enacted level, and equal to the FY 2017 budget request. The bill fully funds the FY 2017 budget request for Family Housing construction at $1.3 billion, which is $84.4 million below the FY 2016 level. The total recommended funding for the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) account is $230.2 million, a decrease of $36 million from the FY 2016 enacted level and $25 million above the FY 2017 budget request. Detainee Transfers: The bill continues to carry language preventing the transfer of detainees from Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. VETERANS AFFAIRS: The Committee recommends a total of $176 billion for FY 2017 programs, of which $73.5 billion is discretionary funding, representing an increase of $2.1 billion above the FY 2016 enacted level. The Board of Veterans Appeals, the General Operating Expenses account, the construction accounts, the Office of Inspector General, the Medical Research account, and the Grants accounts are funded at the FY 2017 request level. As authorized by Congress in 2009, the VA medical services accounts are provided funding one year in advance. The recommendation includes $850 million of the $1.07 billion requested for the current year budget request, which is in addition to the FY 2017 advance appropriation provided in the FY 2016 Omnibus. The subcommittee recommendation provides $663 million for Medical and Prosthetic Research, which is $32 million above the FY 2016 enacted level, and equal to the FY 2017 request. The subcommittee recommendation provides $528 million for Construction, Major Projects, which is $1.2 billion below the FY 2016 enacted level and equal to the President’s request. The bill continues the practice first established in FY 2016 and restricts the availability of funding for major construction projects costing more than $100 million until VA certifies it has signed an agreement with an appropriate non-VA government entity to serve as the design and/or construction agent for the project. OTHER VA ISSUES: Electronic Health Records: Consistent with previous appropriations bills, the Committee recommends language to hold funding ($168.1 million) provided for the electronic health record until the VA provides information on the interoperability and business case for the VistA Evolution system, as well as other information listed in the bill. Disability Claims Backlog: The Committee recommends continuance of monthly reporting requirements from regional offices on disability claims processing performance and quality reports on remediation efforts at the poorest performing regional offices. Non-Recurring Maintenance: The bill does not include the current year budget request of $649 million for Non-Recurring Maintenance of Medical Facilities. VA General Administration Account: The total recommended funding is $336.7 million, which is equal to the FY 2016 enacted level, and $81 million below the FY 2017 budget request. Senior Executive Service Bonus: The bill includes a provision that prevents Senior Executives at the VA from receiving performance bonuses. For more information on funding levels and other key provisions in the Military Construction, Veterans Affairs Bill, please click here. ###
05.17.2016	MACON, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), co-chair of the Congressional Military Family Caucus, introduced H.R. 5248, the Agent Orange Reconciliation Act of 2016, in an effort to help heal the post-conflict, human cost of war by caring for children living with Spina Bifida due to Vietnam veteran parent’s exposure to Agent Orange. Spina Bifida requires costly surgeries and extensive medical care because of potential paralysis resulting from damage to the spinal cord. The Agent Orange Reconciliation Act of 2016 would fill gaps in the Agent Orange Benefits Act by providing a one-time retroactive monetary payment to the families with children enduring with Spina Bifida to compensate for treatment of related symptoms from birth until the date benefits under the original Act were first received. “Our nation holds a commitment to our veterans and their families,” said Congressman Bishop. “Ensuring restitution for Vietnam veterans’ children suffering with Spina Bifida not only sustains our ongoing pledge but also recognizes the harmful and continued effects of exposure to Agent Orange.” The Department of Veterans Affairs presumes a link between Vietnam-era veterans exposed to herbicides such as Agent Orange and the incidences of Spina Bifida in their biological children. The Agent Orange Benefits Act (Public Law 104-204), which became law in 1996, established a benefits package for the children of Vietnam veterans as a result of exposure of one or both biological parents to herbicide during active duty in the Vietnam War. Benefits include lifetime health care services for Spina Bifida and any disability associated with Spina Bifida, a monthly monetary allowance, and VA vocational training and rehabilitation service. The Act authorized the VA to provide such benefits effective October 1, 1997, but not earlier than the date of the VA’s receipt of an individual’s claim for benefits. However, the Agent Orange Benefits Act did not tackle the already incurred medical costs directly correlated to Spina Bifida. According to the VA, approximately 1,200 affected children of Vietnam-era veterans have received compensation since the date benefits under the original Act were first received. While these children became eligible for benefits in 1997, veterans and their families have been left with the cost of years of medical care necessary to treat a child’s birth conditions directly attributable to the veteran’s wartime service. Due to medical advances, most children born with Spina Bifida live well into their adulthood. For more information regarding the Agent Orange Reconciliation Act of 2016, please click here. ###
05.09.2016	ALBANY, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) welcomed the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) announcement of a Federal Marketing Order (FMO) for pecans grown in 15 states, a self-help program funded by the pecan industry and administered by a new 17-member American Pecan Council for the benefit of the industry. Its responsibilities under the Final Order to be published in the Federal Register will be to market and promote pecans to increase demand; gather and publish accurate industry data; coordinate and invest in pecan research; establish quality, grade, and size standards; and create packaging guidelines and standards. “Georgia’s Second Congressional District is one of the largest pecan producing areas in the nation,” said Congressman Sanford Bishop. “The Federal Marketing Order’s creation is a boon to the pecan industry, for jobs across America, and for consumers of Georgia’s favorite tree-nut, the pecan!” “The U.S pecan industry took a giant step forward today as U.S. Secretary of Agriculture, Tom Vilsak, announced the passage of the Federal Marketing Order for Pecans. The Marketing Order will allow the pecan industry to collect funds to help with the national marketing, education and research for the pecan industry. This new Marketing Order for pecans will be an asset for all Georgia pecan farmers. It could not have been possible without the Congressional support and efforts from Sanford Bishop,” said Randy Hudson, a Georgia pecan grower and President of the U.S. Pecan Growers Council. In a referendum conducted March 9 through March 30, 2016, 77% of the voting producers representing 88% of the volume supported the marketing order. The marketing order will authorize data collection; research and promotion activities; and regulation of grade, size, quality, pack and containers for pecans grown in Alabama, Arkansas, Arizona, California, Florida, Georgia, Kansas, Louisiana, Missouri, Mississippi, North Carolina, New Mexico, Oklahoma, South Carolina, and Texas. A council of 17 growers and shellers (handlers) will be nominated by the industry and appointed by the Secretary of Department of Agriculture, Tom Visack, to administer the marketing order with oversight by AMS. The program will be financed by assessments collected from pecan handlers. Commercially produced in 14 states, pecans are the only native tree nut grown in the United States. Approximately 80% of the world’s pecan production is located in the United States. The U.S. pecan crop totaled 302.8 million pounds in 2012, a 12% increase from 2011. Georgia’s Second Congressional District produced over 100 million pounds of pecans in 2012. For more information regarding the Federal Marketing Order, please click here. ###
04.29.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement regarding his disapproval of H.J. Res. 88, a U.S. House joint resolution disapproving and nullifying a Department of Labor rule published on April 8, 2016 relating to the definition of the term "fiduciary" and the conflict of interest rule with respect to retirement investment advice. “While the Department of Labor’s final rule is not perfect, it strikes a balance between protecting individuals receiving retirement investment advice and promoting a regulatory environment that does not over burden financial professionals. The vote to change the rule was a counterproductive effort meant to upset this reasoned compromise. During the notice and comment period, Secretary Perez and the Department of Labor did a commendable job incorporating industry concerns and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority has acknowledged the final rule as a ‘big improvement’ over the draft, thus, I do not believe scrapping the rule is a productive step forward.” The rule clarifies the responsibilities of broker-dealers with respect to pension and retirement plans. Under current law, a broker-dealer who provides investment advice has only an obligation to provide investment advice at the lower standard of “suitable” to the individual, but not necessarily in their “best interest.” The rule will require broker-dealers to provide retirement investment advice to the higher “best interest” standard and is expected to prevent investment losses of approximately $17 billion per year. It takes effect in April 2017. H.J. Res. 88 was approved by a vote of 234 to 183. Congressman Bishop voted against the resolution. ###
04.20.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Member of the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement after the full Appropriations Committee approved its Fiscal Year (FY) 2017 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill. The government spending bill now goes to the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives for its consideration. “Provisions in the Energy & Water government funding bill will bolster job creation and strengthen Georgia’s economy. The bill invests $65 million in the Savannah Harbor, develops waterway infrastructure across our state, and reinforces industries dependant on imports and exports as well as funds energy research, nuclear security, and the Army Corps of Engineers,” said Congressman Sanford Bishop. "We are very grateful for the commitment of the Georgia delegation and their colleagues on the Appropriations committee to see ports properly funded. The commitment to the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project (SHEP) as a priority of the Congress is clear and the increased funding for energy and water programs overall provides the Corps of Engineers with the capability of fully funding SHEP construction for fiscal year 2017. This project is critical to national trade and economic growth for generations to come,” said Jim Walters, Chairman of the Georgia Ports Authority. A summary of the subcommittee draft of the fiscal year 2017 Energy and Water Appropriations bill follows: BACKGROUND & BILL HIGHLIGHTS: Georgia Projects: Investigations (potential new projects) Proctor Creek $200,000 Savannah River Below Augusta Ecosystem Restoration 500,000 Sweetwater Creek 500,000 Construction Richard B. Russell Dam and Lake 930,000 Savannah Harbor Expansion 42,700,000 Operations/Maintenance Allatoona Lake 7,925,000 Apalachicola, Chattahoochee and Flint Rivers 1,026,000 Atlantic Intercostal Waterway 181,000 Brunswick Harbor 4,528,000 Buford Dam/Lake Lanier 9,823,000 Carters Dam/Lake 7,724,000 Hartwell Lake 11,343,000 Inspection of completed works 227,000 Strom Thurmond Lake 18,399 Project condition surveys 128,000 Richard Russell Dam/Lake 7,842,000 Savannah Harbor 23,527,000 Savannah River below Augusta 137,000 West Point Dam and Lake 8,450,000 The bill totals $37.4 billion – $259 million above the fiscal year 2016 enacted level and $168 million above the President’s budget request. Nuclear Security: The bill provides a total of $12.9 billion for DOE’s nuclear weapons security programs, including Weapons Activities, Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation, and Naval Reactors – a $327 million increase above the fiscal year 2016 level. This includes: $9.3 billion for Weapons Activities – $438 million above the fiscal year 2016 enacted level; $1.4 billion for Naval Nuclear Reactors – $45 million above the fiscal year 2016 enacted level; and $1.8 billion for Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation – $118 million below the fiscal year 2016 enacted level. This includes $340 million in funding to help fulfill the international commitment by the U.S. to operate a Mixed Oxide (MOX) Fuel Fabrication Facility to dispose of surplus plutonium. Army Corps of Engineers: The bill provides $6.1 billion, an increase of $100 million above the fiscal year 2016 enacted level and $1.5 billion above the President’s budget request. Specifically, the bill provides: $2.7 billion for navigation projects and studies, including $1.263 billion in funding from the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund and full use of estimated annual revenues from the Inland Waterways Trust Fund; $1.8 billion to support public health and safety by funding flood and storm damage reduction activities, an increase of $105 million above fiscal year 2016 and $582 million above the budget request. Environmental Cleanup: The bill provides $6.15 billion for environmental management activities, $66 million below the fiscal year 2016 enacted level. This includes $5.2 billion for Defense Environmental Cleanup to clean sites contaminated by previous nuclear weapons production. Energy Programs: The bill provides DOE $11.08 billion – an increase of $56 million above the fiscal year 2016 enacted level and $1.3 billion below the President's request. Within this total, $645 million (+$13m) is provided for research and development. In addition, nuclear energy research, development, and demonstration activities are increased by $25 million above the fiscal year 2016 enacted level, for a total funding level of $1.01 billion. Renewable energy programs are funded at $1.07 billion, slightly below the President’s budget request. Science Research: The bill includes $5.4 billion for science research – an increase of $50 million above the fiscal year 2016 enacted level. Bureau of Reclamation: The bill provides $1.1 billion – $131 million below the fiscal year 2016 enacted level and $27 million above the President’s request – for the Department of the Interior and the Bureau of Reclamation to help manage, develop, and protect the water resources of Western states. Yucca Mountain: The bill continues congressional efforts to support the Yucca Mountain nuclear repository, providing $150 million for the Nuclear Waste Disposal program and $20 million for the Nuclear Regulatory Commission to continue the adjudication of DOE’s Yucca Mountain License application. Additional Provisions: The bill prohibits any changes to federal jurisdiction under the Clean Water Act. The bill prohibits any changes to the definition of “fill material” and “discharge of fill material” for the purposes of the Clean Water Act. The bill restricts the application of the Clean Water Act in certain agricultural areas, including farm ponds and irrigation ditches. The bill includes language allowing the possession of firearms on Corps of Engineers lands. The bill prohibits new nuclear nonproliferation projects in Russia. For the complete text of the subcommittee draft of the FY 2017 Energy and Water Appropriations bill, please click here. ###
04.19.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies, released the following statement after the full Appropriations Committee passed its Fiscal Year (FY) 2017 government spending bill. The government spending bill now goes to the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives for its consideration. “The Agriculture government spending bill passed by the Appropriations Committee is boon for Georgia and our nation’s strong agriculture industry,” said Congressman Bishop. “In addition to billions of dollars invested in rural development and Land Grant universities across the country like the University of Georgia and Fort Valley State University, the bill also specifically champions the pecan and cotton industries, expands efforts for urban agriculture initiatives, and protects access to food in rural communities by supporting the usage of EBT at convenience store locations.” A summary of the subcommittee draft of the fiscal year 2017 Agriculture Appropriations bill follows: BACKGROUND & BILL HIGHLIGHTS: KEY LANGUAGE AFFECTING MIDDLE AND SOUTHWEST GEORGIA: Directs the Secretary of Agriculture to use all his authority to assist cotton industry; Directs NASS to continue issuing pecan data in 2016 Non Citrus & Fruits Preliminary Study; Continues focus and increases funding to respond to any state emergencies and work to minimize any trade impact of the avian influenza outbreak; Mandates that at least 10 percent of Rural Development funding go to persistent poverty counties (20% poverty over last 30 years). Includes single family housing, self-help housing loans/grants; Community Facility loans/grants; Rural Coops; Rural Electrification; Distance Learning; Telemedicine; Broadband, etc.; Directs the Department to expand opportunities for urban agriculture in cities such as Albany, Macon, Columbus; Directs USDA to create an Agriculture Research Center at an HBCU; Expand joint research activities at all Land Grant Universities, including 1890 Land Grant Universities. Directs the Food and Nutrition Service (FNS) to prohibit the implementation of a FNS rule changing retailer eligibility requirements in SNAP. The rule would have altered the definition of a retail food store to exclude any entity with over 15% of its food sales in items that are “cooked or heated” on site or under the same roof as another entity that has more than 15% of its sales in cooked or heated food. Bill Summary: In total, the bill allows for $147.7 billion in both discretionary and mandatory funding – $2.3 billion below the President’s request and $7.2 billion above the fiscal year 2016 enacted level. Discretionary funding alone provided by the bill is $21.3 billion, $451 million below the fiscal year 2016 enacted level. Agricultural Research: The bill provides $2.85 billion for agriculture research programs, including the Agricultural Research Service and the National Institute of Food and Agriculture. This funding also includes important research investments in U.S. land-grant colleges and universities. Included in this level is a $25 million increase for USDA’s premier competitive research program – the Agriculture and Food Research Initiative. Animal and Plant Health: The legislation includes $934 million – $29.6 million above the President’s budget request and $36.4 million above the fiscal year 2016 enacted level – for the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service. This funding will support programs to help control or eradicate plant and animal pests and diseases that can be crippling to U.S. producers, including harmful outbreaks of citrus greening and highly pathogenic avian influenza. Conservation Programs: The bill provides $868 million to help farmers, ranchers, and private forest landowners conserve and protect their land. This includes $12 million for infrastructure rehabilitation to help small communities meet current safety standards for watershed projects. Farm Service Agency (FSA): The legislation provides $1.51 billion for FSA, which is the same as the fiscal year 2016 level. This funding will continue support for various farm, conservation, and emergency loan programs, and will help American farmers and ranchers with the implementation of the farm bill. Rural Development: The bill provides a total of $2.88 billion for rural development programs, which is $113 million above the fiscal year 2016 enacted level. These programs help create an environment for economic growth by supporting basic rural infrastructure, providing loans to increase opportunities for rural businesses and industries, and helping balance the playing field in local rural housing markets. Business and Industry Loans – The legislation includes a loan level of $920 million –the same as the fiscal year 2016 enacted level – for the rural business and industry loan program. Rural Infrastructure – The legislation includes responsible investments in infrastructure to help rural areas of the country access basic utilities. This includes $1.25 billion – the same as the fiscal year 2016 enacted level – for rural water and waste program loans, and $533 million for grants and related costs, an increase of $11 million above current levels and $71.6 million above the request. In addition, $6.94 billion is provided for rural electric and telephone infrastructure loans, the same level as fiscal year 2016. Rural Housing Loans and Rental Assistance – The bill provides a total of $24 billion in loan authority for the Single Family Housing guaranteed loan program, which is equal to the fiscal year 2016 enacted level and the President’s request. In addition, the bill includes $1 billion in direct loans – an increase of $100 million from the fiscal year 2016 enacted level and the President’s request – to meet increased demand. In addition, $1.4 billion, an increase of $15 million above current levels, is provided for rental assistance for affordable rental housing for low-income families and the elderly in rural communities. Food Safety and Inspection Service: The legislation includes $1 billion for food safety and inspection programs – an increase of $15.5 million above the 2016 enacted level. These mandatory inspection activities help ensure the safety and productivity of the country’s $185 billion meat and poultry industry, and keep safe, healthy food on American tables. The funding provided will maintain more than 8,000 frontline inspection personnel for meat, poultry, and egg products at approximately 6,400 facilities across the country. Food and Drug Administration (FDA): The FDA receives a total of $2.7 billion in discretionary funding in the bill, an increase of $33 million over the fiscal year 2016 enacted level. Total funding for the FDA, including revenue from user fees, is $4.78 billion – $97.4 million above fiscal year 2016. Within this total, food safety activities are increased by $33.2 million, and medical product safety activities are increased by $9.4 million. Zika: The bill provides $10 million in funding through the FDA to combat Zika and Ebola outbreaks by helping to fund ongoing response activities, and to expedite the development and availability of medical products to fight the viruses. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC): Included in the bill is $250 million for the CFTC, the same as the 2016 enacted level and $80 million below the President’s budget request. The agreement includes language allowing the CFTC to sublease its excess space to achieve savings identified by the Government Accountability Office and Inspector General. International Programs: The bill includes $1.9 billion for overseas food aid and to promote U.S. agricultural exports, including $1.5 billion – a $116 million increase above the President’s request – for “Food for Peace” grants, and $202 million for the McGovern-Dole International Food for Education and Child Nutrition program. Food and Nutrition Programs: The legislation contains discretionary funding, as well as mandatory funding required by law, for food and nutrition programs within the Department of Agriculture. This includes funding for the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC), the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), and child nutrition programs. Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) – The bill provides $6.35 billion in discretionary funding for WIC, which is the same as the fiscal year 2016 enacted level and the President’s request. Child nutrition programs – The bill provides for $23.2 billion in required mandatory funding – which is outside the discretionary funding jurisdiction of the Appropriations Committee – for child nutrition programs, supporting 32 million children free or reduced-price school lunches and snacks. The bill provides more than $628 million for the Summer Food Service Program to ensure low-income children continue to receive nutritious meals when school is not in session. The bill also continues funding for a pilot program that provides additional funds through SNAP or WIC electronic benefit transfer (EBT) cards to ensure children in underserved communities receive food during the summer months. Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) – The bill provides for $79.7 billion in required mandatory spending – which is outside the discretionary funding jurisdiction of the Appropriations Committee – for SNAP. This is $1.2 billion below last year’s level and $2.02 billion below the President’s budget request, reflecting declining enrollment. The total includes $3 billion for the SNAP reserve fund, $2 billion below the President’s request, which is used to cover any unexpected participation increases. For the complete text of the subcommittee draft of the FY 2017 Agriculture Appropriations bill, please click here. ###
04.18.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies, issued the following statement regarding the passage of the Fiscal Year 2017 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations bill out of the full U.S. House of Representatives Appropriations Committee. “The Fiscal Year 2017 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations bill maintains a strong reputation for finding bipartisan common ground as members work together to fund the construction of military facilities and strive to improve the quality of life and care afforded to our veterans and military families. I am pleased the Committee continues to demonstrate strong support for our service members, but also recognizes the serious challenges remaining in fulfilling our responsibility to veterans and moving the appropriations process forward using the limited resources we have been allocated. “The bill maintains tough but fair reporting requirements for DoD-VA Electronic Health Records integration, prioritizes the elimination of the VA claims backlog, and includes healthy funding for the Board of Veterans Appeals. Additionally, the bill provides necessary funding for military maintenance and construction of military family housing, medical and prosthetic research, and medical facilities. “One item of particular concern is the inclusion of bill language limiting performance awards to Senior Executives at the VA. As I have stated time and again, this language will not provide any solution in the short-term and, in fact, may have more long term consequences by compounding the very problem it attempts to address. By limiting such bonuses, the VA becomes a less attractive option than other agencies when it comes to recruiting and retaining quality executive leaders. Instead, we must do more to attract and retain exceptional talent to the Department in order to better serve the needs of our nation’s veterans. “Lastly, we need to be more strategic about how we handle our federal budget and that strategy must include the cessation of artificial crises created by a small minority in Congress with unrealistic demands. I applaud Chairman Rodgers for honoring the allocation of the Bipartisan Budget Agreement (BBA) set for Fiscal Year 2017. While certainly not ideal, the BBA must suffice until we can get past the unrealistic belief that we can just cut our way to prosperity. I am hopeful today’s mark-up represents the first step in the necessary movement of getting the appropriations process back on track. Below is a list of highlights of funding levels and other key provisions in the Military Construction, Veterans Affairs Bill: BACKGROUND & BILL HIGHLIGHTS: 2017 Mark: $81.6 billion (including OCO) 2017 Overseas Contingency Operations (OCO): $172 million 2016 Enacted: $79.9 billion 2016 OCO: $0 President's Request: $82.8 billion (including OCO) MILCON/VA IN GEORGIA: Defense-Wide $4.820 million for a Special Operations Tactical Unmanned Aerial Vehicle Hangar at Fort Benning; $25 million for a replacement medical clinic at Fort Gordon; Army $14.8 million for an automated qualification / training range at Fort Stewart; $90 million for a cyber protection team operations facility at Fort Gordon; Air Force $30.9 million for a 4-bay, personnel recovery helicopter hangar at Moody Air Force Base. MILITARY CONSTRUCTION: $5.621 billion, an increase of $894 million below the FY 2016 enacted level and $120 million below the President’s request, is provided for Military Construction programs. The total recommended funding for the Reserve Components is $676.6 million, which is $122 million above the FY 2016 enacted level, and equal to the FY 2017 budget request. The bill fully funds the FY 2017 budget request for Family Housing construction at $1.3 billion, which is $84.4 million below the FY 2016 level. The total recommended funding for the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) account is $230.2 million, a decrease of $36 million from the FY 2016 enacted level and $25 million above the FY 2017 budget request. Detainee Transfers: The bill continues to carry language preventing the transfer of detainees from Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. VETERANS AFFAIRS: The Committee recommends a total of $176 billion for FY 2017 programs, of which $73.5 billion is discretionary funding, representing an increase of $2.1 billion above the FY 2016 enacted level. The Board of Veterans Appeals, the General Operating Expenses account, the construction accounts, the Office of Inspector General, the Medical Research account, and the Grants accounts are funded at the FY 2017 request level. As authorized by Congress in 2009, the VA medical services accounts are provided funding one year in advance. The recommendation includes $850 million of the $1.07 billion requested for the current year budget request, which is in addition to the FY 2017 advance appropriation provided in the FY 2016 Omnibus. The subcommittee recommendation provides $663 million for Medical and Prosthetic Research, which is $32 million above the FY 2016 enacted level, and equal to the FY 2017 request. The subcommittee recommendation provides $528 million for Construction, Major Projects, which is $1.2 billion below the FY 2016 enacted level and equal to the President’s request. The bill continues the practice first established in FY 2016 and restricts the availability of funding for major construction projects costing more than $100 million until VA certifies it has signed an agreement with an appropriate non-VA government entity to serve as the design and/or construction agent for the project. OTHER VA ISSUES: Electronic Health Records: Consistent with previous appropriations bills, the Committee recommends language to hold funding ($168.1 million) provided for the electronic health record until the VA provides information on the interoperability and business case for the VistA Evolution system, as well as other information listed in the bill. Disability Claims Backlog: The Committee recommends continuance of monthly reporting requirements from regional offices on disability claims processing performance and quality reports on remediation efforts at the poorest performing regional offices. Non-Recurring Maintenance: The bill does not include the current year budget request of $649 million for Non-Recurring Maintenance of Medical Facilities. VA General Administration Account: The total recommended funding is $336.7 million, which is equal to the FY 2016 enacted level, and $81 million below the FY 2017 budget request. Senior Executive Service Bonus: The bill includes a provision that prevents Senior Executives at the VA from receiving performance bonuses. For more information on funding levels and other key provisions in the Military Construction, Veterans Affairs Bill, please click here. ###
04.14.2016	ALBANY, GA – Yesterday, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) successfully included language in the Fiscal Year 2017 Agriculture Appropriations Bill protecting pecan processors and one of Georgia’s largest industries. If signed into law, the bill would require the National Agricultural Statistics Service (NASS) to include pecans in its preliminary report, providing pecan processors with necessary figure estimates related to the overall size of the crop produced and cost of product. Pecan growers and processors depend on accurate and timely pecan inventory reports for making informed marketing decisions. “Georgia’s Second Congressional District is one of the largest pecan producing Congressional District in the nation,” said Congressman Bishop. “I intend to fight for U.S. growers and processors to ensure they are provided with the information necessary to continue generating billions for pecan industry.” “The Georgia Pecan Growers Association thanks Congressman Sanford Bishop for his efforts towards reauthorization of the National Agricultural Statistics Service funding for pecans,” said Jeb Barrow, President of the Georgia Pecan Growers Association. “The ready availability of reliable inventory information is especially helpful for smaller growers. This is a victory for small growers.” “The US Pecan Growers Council and the 10,000 pecan growers and processors from the Carolinas to California would like to thank Congressman Sanford Bishop for his hard work with reauthorization of the National Agricultural Statistics Service funding for pecans," said Dr. Randy Hudson, President of the US Pecan Growers Council. "Without these reports the industry would be completely guessing as to the supply and demand for US pecans". Commercially produced in 14 states, pecans are the only native tree nut grown in the United States. Approximately 80% of the world’s pecan production is located in the United States. The U.S. pecan crop totaled 302.8 million pounds in 2012, a 12% increase from 2011. Georgia’s Second Congressional District produced over 100 million pounds of pecans in 2012. ###
04.12.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The public has been invited to share their views and ask questions in an online townhall event hosted by Congressman Sanford D. Bishop Jr. (GA-02) on his Facebook page. Question submissions began yesterday, April 11, and will continue through Friday, April 22. Congressman Bishop will release 3 to 5 answers each day of the week beginning Monday, April 18, and continuing through Friday, April 22. “Democracy is at its finest when the ideas, opinions, and views of the people are recognized and shared with one another,” said Congressman Bishop. “Our Facebook Townhall provides transparency and accessibility to your government, serving as a platform where everyone’s voices can be heard.” Everyone is encouraged to participate in the Townhall event. Only questions submitted within the stated timeline and underneath the “Please Submit Questions Below!” posts will be considered for the Facebook Townhall. To follow Congressman Bishop on Facebook, please click here. To post your questions directly on Congressman Bishop’s Facebook page, please click here or on the picture below. ###
04.08.2016	ALBANY, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) announced the winners of the 2016 Congressional Art Competition at a ceremony held at the Albany Museum of Art in Albany, Georgia. This year’s first place was earned by the work of Alexa Martinez from Rutland High School in Macon, Georgia. Her winning piece of artwork was created with colored pencils on cardboard and will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year for thousands of visitors, Members of Congress, and staff to appreciate. “Creating art requires thoughts, feelings, and memories not easily replicated. I am grateful to the teachers, families, and peers who encourage these young students to continue coloring the world with their love for art,” said Congressman Bishop. “Each piece judged this year displayed a level of exceptional talent and beauty, and I would like to congratulate Alexa Martinez on her beautiful work.” All works of art that were judged were created by the imaginative high school students of Georgia’s Second Congressional District. The works of art were judged by a panel of three independent judges: Scott Marini, Professor of Art Sculpture and Ceramics at Albany State University; Charles Williams, Professor of Fine Art at Albany State University; and K. Meredith Lear-Perkins, Assistant Professor of Fine Art at Albany State University. This year, an additional award was added—the inaugural People’s Choice Award. All the submitted artwork was uploaded to Facebook and the piece with the most Facebook ‘likes’ by 12:00 p.m. on Friday, April 8 was declared the winner of the award. All artwork can be viewed on Congressman Bishop’s Facebook page. Each spring since 1982, the Congressional Institute has sponsored a nationwide high school visual art competition to honor and encourage artistic talent across the nation. For one year, the winning artwork selected by participating Members will be displayed in the United States Capitol. First Place Alexa Martinez Rutland High School (Macon, GA), 11th Grade Colored Pencil – Untitled Second Place Megan Williams Rutland High School (Macon, GA) Pencil & Coffee – “Skeleton” Third Place Jeremy Moore Rutland High School (Macon, GA), 11th Grade Colored Pencil – Untitled Honorable Mention Keri Russell Lee County High School (Leesburg, GA), 10th Grade Charcoal & Graphite – “Breathe” People’s Choice Ke’Chanbria Ball Dougherty Comprehensive High School (Albany, GA) Colored Pencil, Charcoal – “Face of Blue People” ###
04.07.2016	MONTEZUMA, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop Jr. (GA-02), co-chair of the Congressional Working Forests Caucus, welcomed the U.S. Green Building Council’s (USGBC) recent action to expand use of forest products in their Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) green building program by including recognition of the Sustainable Forestry Initiative (SFI) and the American Tree Farm System (AFTS), effectively opening a pathway for more U.S. forest products to be used in the LEED rating system. “Forest landowners and manufacturers across Georgia and the United States now have new opportunities to participate in green building efforts due to USGBC’s recent action. Creating a broader range of forest products to be available for LEED credits is great news for our nation’s woodlands, for the jobs created by sustainably managed lands, and for American-grown forest products people use every day!” said Congressman Sanford Bishop. “Congressman Bishop’s leadership on this issue was invaluable. Because of his work, small family landowners in Georgia, of which there are hundreds of thousands, will have new market opportunities that will help them keep their land in forest. This is an incredible victory for Georgia’s forest-based economy and Georgia’s forest owners,” said Tom Martin, President and CEO of the American Forest Foundation. “Given the developments in forest certification over the last 10 years, the time was right for the USGBC to respond to the advice of many forestry experts, government officials and conservationists and re-examine the role of forest certification in the LEED rating system. We’re pleased to see they made the right decision for our forests and the built environment,” said Doyle Simons, Weyerhaeuser President and CEO. Forest-related industries provide $23.6 billion and 108,112 jobs to the state economy, making it Georgia’s second largest manufacturing employer. Georgia contains the largest area of forest cover of any state in the South. Sixty-two percent of Georgia is forested, accounting for a total of 24 million acres. Of that, approximately 90% of Georgia’s forests are privately owned by individuals and families or private industry, including 1,212 Tree Farms in the state certified by the American Tree Farm System. Before USGBC’s action, only the 174,000 acres certified by the Forest Leadership Council (FSC) were eligible for LEED credits in Georgia. Georgia has one of the highest penetrations of ATFS certified land compared to other states. More than 81 million acres of forests in the United State are certified to SFI and ATFS, with 4.3 million acres certified in Georgia. This action will further stimulate the use of wood products, which serve as long-term storage for carbon, use less energy, and produce less pollution in their manufacturing when compared to other building materials. Having sustainable markets for wood and other forest products is vital to ensuring U.S. woodlands remain healthy, sustainably managed forests providing clean air and water, recreational opportunities, and habitats for countless forms of wildlife. LEED is providing credits to forest products sourced from the Sustainable Forestry Initiative (SFI) Program and the American Tree Farm System (ATFS), two non-profit organizations dedicated to promoting sustainable forest management. By recognizing all credible, third-party certification systems and other responsible sources, LEED is invigorating the market for American-grown forest products, increasing jobs, and strengthening the overall economy in rural areas. ###
04.05.2016	ALBANY, GA – On Friday, April 8, 2016 at 4:00pm Congressman Sanford D. Bishop Jr. (GA-02) will announce the winners of the 2016 Congressional Art Competition during a reception at the Albany Museum of Art. Places include 1st, 2nd, and 3rd, runners up, and the inaugural People’s Choice Award. The reception is open to the public and will feature artwork from all participants in the 2016 competition. “The young people of Middle and Southwest Georgia possess an artistic brilliance deserving of recognition and reward,” said Congressman Bishop. “The Congressional Art Competition showcases our youth’s exceptional creativity and imagination on a platform the entire nation can enjoy, educating others on the importance of art, and encouraging our young artists to explore their own potential.” The 1st Place Winner will receive prizes from the Albany Museum of Art; have his or her artwork displayed for one year in the Cannon Tunnel, a busy underground walkway to the U.S. Capitol from the House office buildings; and will have the unique opportunity to join Congressman Bishop at a national awards reception in Washington D.C. An inaugural People’s Choice Award will be given to the artist whose work receives the most votes in the form of ‘Facebook likes’. All artwork can be viewed on Congressman Sanford D. Bishop Jr.’s Facebook page. Voting ends at 12pm on Friday, April 8. To view and vote for the entries, please click here. Since 1982, the Congressional Institute has sponsored a nationwide high school visual art competition each spring to recognize and encourage artistic talent across the nation. For more information, please click here. ###
04.01.2016	ALBANY, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) is proud to share that the National Science Foundation (NSF) has awarded Albany State University (ASU) a $649,926 grant for the Cohort Community for Academic Achievement Persistence and Perseverance in STEM Scholars Program, increasing the number of students who major in science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) disciplines at Albany State University and go on to successfully pursue STEM post-graduate education or research careers. “I applaud the National Science Foundation for providing talented Albany State University students a wonderful opportunity to grow through science, technology, engineering, math, and research, opening doors to graduate school and innovative jobs in the STEM workforce!” said Congressman Sanford Bishop. “The STEM disciplines place students on the cutting edge of new and emerging careers. We are delighted to be a leader in this area across the country. Lastly, I am excited when our scholars and researchers are recognized for their work,” said Dr. Arthur Dunning, President of Albany State University. During the project, 18 scholars will (a) develop and follow a four-year academic and professional plan that will include freshman learning community courses, workshops, service learning, and field trips or visitations under the guidance of a Student Success Coach, (b) participate in at least one undergraduate research experience, and (c) attend and present an undergraduate research project at an on-campus or regional conference. After graduation these talented scholars are expected to join the STEM workforce or go on to graduate school in STEM, enabling the United States to compete and innovate in a global economy. For more information, please click here. ###
03.22.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) and Rep. Austin Scott (GA-08) welcomed the unanimous passage of the bipartisan H.R. 482, the Ocmulgee Mounds National Historic Park Boundary Revision Act in the U.S. House of Representatives. Their bill would expand the boundaries of the Ocmulgee National Monument from approximately 700 acres to over 2,800 acres; change the name from “Ocmulgee National Monument” to “Ocmulgee Mounds National Historical Park” in order to increase name recognition and draw additional visitors; and authorize a resources study to expand the park even further and include additional opportunities for hunting, camping, fishing, and other recreational activities. The bill goes on to the Senate for consideration. “The Ocmulgee Mounds are one of the archaeological and cultural treasures of Georgia,” said Congressman Sanford Bishop. “Today’s bipartisan passage of the Ocmulgee Mounds National Historic Park Boundary Revision Act is a win for the historic preservation of the Ocmulgee Mounds and the economy of Middle Georgia!” “Our legislation is a welcomed example of what can be achieved when a local community, state leaders, and Members of Congress, from both sides of the aisle, collaborate towards a worthy goal, and today’s vote marks an important milestone in many years of effort to bring about increased recognition and enhanced cultural preservation of the Ocmulgee National Monument,” said Congressman Austin Scott. “It was an honor to work with Congressman Bishop on legislation that will provide significant economic, educational, and cultural benefits to Middle Georgia.” The future Ocmulgee Mounds National Historical Park expansion and improvement will be a fitting tribute to the Native Americans who first came to the historical site during the Paleo-Indian period, and will serve as a lasting memorial to how individuals relate to the land and other natural resources. The expanded park also will generate tourist revenue for Macon, Georgia and the surrounding areas while educating visitors on the little known fact that different cultures have occupied this land for thousands of years. The mounds and earth-lodges that the Mississippians built to serve as formal council chambers when they arrived in Macon around 900 A.D. remain intact for all to see and appreciate. Ocmulgee National Monument was originally authorized by Congress in 1934 to protect a fraction of the lands commonly known as the 'Old Ocmulgee Fields,' upon which certain Indian mounds of great historical importance are located. The legislation envisioned a large park of approximately 2,000 acres but local citizens could finance the acquisition of only 678 acres by the time it opened in 1936. Today, the Ocmulgee National Monument contains 702 acres. The role of the Ocmulgee National Monument is to "present a story of many stages of prehistoric cultural development, emphasizing the influences of agriculture, the Mound Builder period, and the relationship of these various cultures to each other and to life today." On October 10, 2014, the measure was endorsed by the Inter-Tribal Council of the Five Civilized Tribes (Cherokee, Chickasaw, Choctaw, Muscogee [Creek], and Seminole Nations), representing over 500,000 Indian people throughout the United States. To view the resolution of endorsement, please click here. ###
03.21.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressmen Steven Palazzo (R-Miss.), Sanford Bishop (D-Georgia), and Brad Ashford (D-Nebraska) introduced The Small Public Housing Agency Opportunity Act of 2016 (H.R. 4816), bipartisan legislation addressing the administrative burdens facing small and rural housing authorities across the country. “There is a huge difference between housing needs in small town Mississippi, Georgia, or Nebraska, and places such as New York City,” Palazzo said. “This bipartisan legislation removes that one-size fits all approach and gives small housing authorities the flexibility to operate more effectively and efficiently to better serve the needs of their residents.” “The Small Public Housing Agency Opportunity Act would significantly ease administrative burdens on small housing agencies in Middle and Southwest Georgia and across the nation by simplifying regulatory requirements, cutting red tape, and encouraging efficiency—freeing agencies to focus more on providing quality affordable housing to residents.” said Congressman Bishop. “I am proud to help introduce the Small Public Housing Agency Opportunity Act of 2016 with my friend and colleague, Rep. Steve Palazzo,” Ashford said. “This important legislation will make it easier for Small Public Housing Agencies (PHA’s) to follow federal guidelines by simplifying inspection and compliance reports, eliminating unnecessary paperwork and streamlining operations. As the former Executive Director of the Omaha Housing Authority, I know how important it is to allow small PHA’s to save costs, and operate more efficiently so they can keep their attention on what matters most, their residents.” H.R. 4816 would simplify inspection and compliance requirements as well as eliminate excessive paperwork for public housing authorities supporting fewer than 550 households. Specifically, the bill limits the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) inspections of housing and voucher units to once every three years, unless the small Public Housing Agency (PHA) is classified “troubled” by HUD. It also eliminates certain paperwork, including the submission of reports not required of owners and operators of Section 8 private-properties, as well as unnecessary environmental reviews for agencies not undergoing new construction. H.R. 4816 is the House companion bill to S.2292, introduced by U.S. Senators Deb Fischer (R-Nebraska) and Jon Tester (D-Montana). Additional original cosponsors of the bill include: Rep. Chuck Fleischmann (R-Tenn.), Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen (R-New Jersey), Rep. Gregg Harper (R-Miss.), Rep. Vicky Hartzler (R-Missouri), Rep. Ann McLane Kuster (D-New Hampshire), Rep. Bill Posey (R-Florida), and Rep. Bennie Thompson (D-Miss.). ###
03.15.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The Lugar Center and Georgetown University’s McCourt School of Public Policy recently unveiled their new Bipartisan Index, naming Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) as the 13th United States Representative most willing to work across party lines in 2015. The Index is a non-partisan tool, ranking all 535 members of Congress on their willingness to reach across the aisle by evaluating legislation sponsorship and co-sponsorship data. "The clash of opposing views is healthy for our democracy, but governing requires more than empty partisan talking points," said Congressman Sanford Bishop. “Sitting down to work with those across the aisle is not just an act of placing faith in colleagues with different opinions, but a concrete step towards doing what needs to be done to get the job done for the American people.” “This new data indicates that though Congress continues to be a highly partisan institution, some progress is being made,” said Richard Lugar, President of the Lugar Center and former Republican Senator from Indiana. “Lawmakers with strong ideological views can still find common ground with members across the aisle if they make an effort to do so. Some members of Congress have embraced this challenge, despite the intensely partisan political culture exemplified in the national presidential campaigns." “Many believe the political process in Washington to be broken beyond repair,” said Edward Montgomery, Dean of the McCourt School. “We hope the Bipartisan Index reminds lawmakers and their constituents that effective governance requires leadership-- and in today’s strident partisan environment, that means working across the aisle to find solutions to our most pressing problems.” The rankings of the 114th Congress, based on bill sponsorship and co-sponsorship, follow the initial Bipartisan Index data for the 113th Congress (2013-14), which was one of the most partisan of the past 20 years, and provides historical context for the increased partisanship in Congress over the past two decades. For more information on the current and previous rankings, The Lugar Center, or Georgetown University’s McCourt School of Public Policy, please click here. ###
03.08.2016	ELLAVILLE, GA – This morning, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop Jr. (GA-02) was joined by Adam Hathaway, Superintendent of Schley County Schools; Todd West, Principal of Schley County Middle High School; as well as staff and students from the Schley County School District at the Schley County Middle High School Library to welcome a donation of books from the Library of Congress. The donated books will provide students from 6th through 12th grade with challenging reading materials, build a broader library collection at the school, and encourage out-of-classroom learning. The opportunity to receive books from the Library of Congress is open to all libraries in Middle and Southwest Georgia. “The Library of Congress has provided an excellent opportunity to broaden publication catalogues at schools, public libraries, governments, and non-profits,” said Congressman Bishop. “I encourage all interested organizations from Middle and Southwest Georgia to get in touch with our office or the Library of Congress for more information.” “We are very excited Congressman Bishop could be at Schley County Middle High School today to address our student council and want to thank him for officially presenting us with books donated from the Library of Congress,” said Adam Hathaway, Superintendent of Schley County School District. “We are honored to be awarded resources that will help our students continue to reach for excellence. We are blessed to be one of the best school systems in the State of Georgia and are very thankful for the support of our community and Congressman Bishop.” The Library of Congress has surplus books not needed for the Library's own uses available for donation to eligible organizations and institutions. Eligible organizations and institutions must be located in the United States and fall into one of the following categories: Fulltime, tax-supported or nonprofit educational institution: school, school system, college, university, museum, or public library. Agency of local, state, or federal government. Nonprofit institution or organization that has tax-exempt status and that operates a library and/or research center opens to the public. Eligible organizations and institutions may apply to participate in the Surplus Books Program by submitting a completed and signed Application to Participate form [attached]. Participating organization can request books more than once, and can renew its request to participate every two years through the submission of an updated Application to Participate form. For more information regarding application guidelines, please click here. ###
03.04.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) took to the floor of the U. S. House of Representatives to support small businesses in Georgia’s brick industry by working to pass H.R. 4557, the Blocking Regulatory Interference from Closing Kilns (BRICK) Act. Co-sponsored by Congressman Bishop, H.R. 4557 was approved by a vote of 238 to 163 and goes on to the Senate for consideration: To view of video of Congressman Bishop supporting Georgia’s brick industry, please click here. A transcript of Congressman Bishop’s remarks in the U.S. House of Representatives is below: Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 4557, the Blocking Regulatory Interference from Closing Kilns—or BRICK—Act. This legislation is important to preserving the viability of brick manufacturing facilities across the country. Simply put, the BRICK Act pauses the EPA’s 2015 national emission standards for hazardous air pollutants until court challenges of the rule are resolved. I am very concerned that brick manufacturers in my district, as well as those in the districts of my colleagues, may be required to spend hundreds of thousands, if not millions of dollars, to satisfy an EPA requirement similar to the EPA’s 2003 rule. A rule -- it should be noted -- vacated by the federal courts. For example, Cherokee Brick and Tile, from Macon, GA, spent over $1.5 million to install controls in order to comply with EPA’s invalidated 2003 rule. Cherokee is a small family owned business, and as my colleagues with small businesses in their district can attest, $1.5 million is a very substantial sum that can cut heavily into a bottom line. This rule impacts more than just Cherokee Brick and Tile in my state, but also General Shale and Pine Hall Brick among others. A basic material for home and building construction, bricks are more than just a figurative cornerstone in the United States’ construction industry. Passing this legislation would guarantee the EPA would wait until its 2015 emission standards are reviewed by a court before implementing the rule, and before manufacturers across the country are needlessly required to spend millions of dollars. I ask my colleagues to support H.R. 4557, the BRICK Act. For more information regarding H.R. 4557, the BRICK Act, please click here. ###
02.29.2016	FORT VALLEY, GA— Today, United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) Secretary Vilsack announced $18 million in grants will be available to strengthen research and teaching at historically black land-grant universities. The grants are available through the 1890 Institution Research, Extension, and Teaching Capacity Building Grants program administered by USDA’s National Institute of Food and Agriculture (NIFA). NIFA provides support to historically black colleges and universities designated as land-grant universities in the Second Morrill Act of 1890. The Capacity Building Grants (CBG) program supports agricultural science programs while strengthening the linkages among the 1890 universities, other education institutions, USDA, and private industry. The program focuses on advancing cultural diversity in the scientific and professional workforce by attracting and educating more students from under-represented groups. Grants are awarded in the categories of research, teaching, and extension with a focus on NIFA’s priority areas of sustainable bioenergy, food security, childhood obesity prevention, climate change, and food safety. Since 2009, NIFA has awarded more than $122 million in grants to support 1890 land-grant universities through the CBG program. Applications are due March 31, 2016. Please see the request for applications for more information. ###
02.25.2016	ALBANY, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement regarding the 25th anniversary of Georgia Family Connection: “Our families are strengthened, our communities are more productive, our children are better nurtured, our seniors are wholly appreciated, and our future is brighter due to the work of Georgia Family Connection. Congratulations for 25 years of collaboration in enhancing the basic unit of our society – the family.” Georgia Family Connection works to improve local decision making rooted in community priorities in all 159 counties in Georgia by bringing together more than 3,000 local and state-level partners committed to strengthening children and families. For more information regarding the 25th anniversary, please click here. ###
02.17.2016	ALBANY, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) invited high school students from Middle and Southwest Georgia’s 2nd Congressional District to participate in the 35th Annual Congressional Art Competition. “The young people of Middle and Southwest Georgia possess an artistic brilliance deserving of recognition and reward,” said Congressman Bishop. “The Congressional Art Competition showcases our youth’s exceptional creativity and imagination on a platform the entire nation can enjoy, educating others on the importance of art and encouraging our young artists to explore their own potential.” All participants will be invited to attend a reception on April 8, 2016 in Albany where all submissions will be on display and a winner will be announced. The winner of this year’s competition will receive prizes from the Albany Museum of Art; have his or her artwork displayed for one year in the Cannon Tunnel, a busy underground walkway to the U.S. Capitol from the House office buildings; and will have the unique opportunity to join Congressman Bishop at a national awards reception in Washington, D.C. All artwork must be submitted to Congressman Sanford D. Bishop’s Office at 235 West Roosevelt Avenue, Suite 114 in Albany, Georgia no later than March 31, 2016. The official competition rules can be found here. For more information, please contact Toni Pickel in the Albany District Office by email at toni.pickel@mail.house.gov or by phone at 229-439-8067. ###
02.11.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee of Agriculture, released the following statement regarding his disappointment on U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Secretary Tom Vilsack’s refusal to label cottonseed as “other oilseeds” within the Farm Bill, an action which may negatively affect the cotton industry: “I am greatly disappointed in the USDA’s failure to support the cotton industry by re-labeling cottonseed to a classification allowing needed relief for struggling cotton farmers. Today, I expressed these concerns directly to Secretary Vilsack and he assured that he would try his best to assist in the reclassification of cottonseed. I intend to work with my colleagues within the House and Senate to find a solution to this oversight.” For more information, please click here. ###
02.11.2016	WASHINGTON D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford Bishop (GA-02) released the following video statement today in recognition of Black History Month during February of 2016. To view the video statement, please click here or on the picture below: A transcript of Congressman Sanford D. Bishop Jr.’s statement regarding Black History Month 2016 can be found below: As we celebrate Black History Month, I have decided to focus and reflect on the life of my friend, colleague and mentor, Julian Bond, who died at age 75 on August 15, 2015. Julian Bond was an American social activist and leader of the Civil Rights Movement, a politician, college professor, and writer. In 1960, when he was 20, he co-founded the Student Non-Violent Coordinating Committee, SNCC, the youthful arm of Dr. Martin Luther King’s Southern Christian Leadership Conference. In 1965, he was one of 11 African Americans elected to the Georgia House of Representatives after passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the Voting Rights Act of 1965. On January 10, 1966, the Georgia House of Representatives voted 184-12 not to seat him because he publically endorsed SNCC’s policy in opposition to United States involvement in the Vietnam War. In 1998, he was selected Chairman of the NAACP. In 2002, he was featured in a documentary film: Julian Bond; Reflections from the Frontline of the Civil Rights Movement. Shakespeare wrote: “All the world’s a stage, all the men and women merely players. Each has their exits and their entrances, and one man in his time plays many parts.” So it was with Julian Bond. I went to Morehouse College as a freshman in 1964. Demonstrations and protests were rampant all over the South. Dr. Benjamin E. Mays, President of Morehouse, constantly highlighted the courage and success of our Morehouse brother, Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. in leading the movement for civil and human rights. Three years earlier, Julian Bond, Son of the First President of FVSC and President of Lincoln University, dropped out of Morehouse to join the Civil Rights Movement. But I was at Morehouse when Julian Bond decided it was time to take the movement from the streets to the suites of political power – who ran for the Georgia State House and was elected. I was at Morehouse on January 14, 1966 when Dr. King led the 1500 person march to the State Capitol to protest the General Assembly’s failure to allow Julian to take the seat to which he was elected three times and to which he was only seated after a ruling by the United States Supreme Court – all because he exercised his rights of free speech against the Vietnam War. I recognized Julian Bond as the skinny guy with the big afro who they said had led the Atlanta University Center students to desegregate the cafeteria at Atlanta City Hall. One of the founders of SNCC. I recognized Julian as a colleague of our other youthful heroes of the student movement such as John Lewis, Stokely Carmichael, H. Rap Brown, Stanley Wise, and Cleveland Sellers, who were often on campus. I recognized Julian as a mentee of Dr. Vincent Harding, activist, Spellman College history professor, founder of the Institute of the Black World, and the first Director of the Martin Luther King Center started in the basement of the library of I.T.C. following Dr. King’s death, where I worked as a student. I recognized him as the young man taking walks down Lee Street near the campus with his then elderly parents -- Dr. and Mrs. Horace Mann Bond, renowned educators. I knew him as brother-in-law to civil rights attorney, Howard Moore, Jr. who in 1968 encouraged me to go to law school instead of seminary if I wanted to keep Dr. King’s dream alive and bring useful skills to the civil rights movement rather than just “hot air”. I knew Julian Bond as the star of the 1968 Democratic National Convention; the handsome, eloquent, daring, Georgia State Representative who was the face of the successful challenge to the all-white Georgia Delegation led by the racist Georgia Governor Lester Maddox – who made black people all over the world proud when he was nominated for Vice President of the United States. Fast forward to 1976, when I was elected to the Georgia House of Representatives from Muscogee County – 10 years after Julian, two years after he was elected to the State Senate. As a new member of the Georgia Legislative Black Caucus, I was appointed by the Chairman Bobby Hill, as Treasurer for the project to erect the sculpture on the State Capitol grounds honoring the 33 black legislators expelled because of their color after the Reconstruction Era. My job was to collect, deposit, and distribute the assessments from each Black Caucus Member to pay for the design, smelting, and installation of the statue. I had to go to each member, including Julian. When I got to Julian, I had to wait. He had 6 or 7 folks waiting to see him. Reporters, admirers, students, maybe one of his children. He was quite a celebrity – a bigger than life hero for me. So every spare moment I had, I would hang out in his first floor Senate office. He was full of stories, but always helpful, funny, always calling out discrimination, pressing for equal opportunity, equal justice under law. Always working on articles or speeches and pecking them out on his typewriter. But he was hated by the “powers that be” in the legislature. James ‘Sloppy’ Floyd, for whom the State Office Buildings are named, said Julian Bond was a “shame and disgrace to his race and this state.” Any bill that had Senator Julian Bond’s name on it would be killed when it got to the House floor. Julian had a serious interest in policy – pushing improved welfare, minimum wage, abolition of the death penalty; increased funding for schools, anti-poverty programs. He wanted to transform the politics of marches, demonstrations, and protests into effective electoral instruments. So I asked Julian, “How did he deal with it. How did he deal with the haters?” He said, “Sanford, the rednecks in the General Assembly like white Republicans more than they like black Democrats. So whenever I have issues that I really want to pass the legislature and be signed into law, I get my friend and State Senate colleague, the [late] U.S. Senator Paul Coverdale, to sponsor them and they passed right through unscathed.” He said if you don’t care who gets the credit, you can find lots of ways of getting things done. That was a valuable lesson for me which I used in Congress to get the legislation passed to name the C.B. King United States District Court House in Albany, Georgia. When partisan politics was holding up my bill in the House, remembering the lesson from Julian, I drafted 2 copies of the bill and got then U.S. Senator Paul Coverdell to introduce it in the U.S. Senate. It passed through the Senate, and the Republicans passed it through the House with no problems, and it was signed into law. Julian was highly sought after as a speaker, commanding thousands of dollars a speech and giving 5 to 10 speeches a month. He was criticized for frequent absences and he told me that that he had to support his family and the $7200/yr legislative pay was just not enough. But he helped his friends and remained on the Board of The Southern Poverty Law Center in Montgomery, Alabama which has, for decades, fought racism, violence, and broke the back of the Ku Klux Klan drawing them into bankruptcy. During his life, Julian Bond did so much, for so many, for so long, Georgia, America, and the world are better because of the life of our friend Julian Bond. Isn’t it strange, How princes and kings, And clowns that caper In sawdust rings, And common folks Like you and me, Are builders for eternity? Each is given a set of rules, A shapeless mass, A bag of tools. And each must fashion, Ere life is flown A stumbling block Or a stepping stone. We are so thankful that the life of Julian Bond was not a stumbling block but a stepping stone for a better life for human kind. To watch on Congressman Sanford Bishop’s YouTube Channel, please click here. ###
02.10.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop (GA-02), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies, supported seven bipartisan measures to honor the service of our veterans and military families. The Veterans Employment, Education, and Healthcare Improvement Act; Construction Reform Act of 2016; Career-Ready Student Veterans Act; American Heroes COLA Act; VA Medical Center Recovery Act; Female Veteran Suicide Prevention Act; and legislation concerning child abuse and neglect in the military were all approved by voice vote. Congressman Bishop supported all efforts. “In addition to formally honoring the sacrifices of our brave service members, it is my hope these eight bills will tear down many of the obstacles faced by veterans and military families,” said Congressman Bishop. H.R. 3234, VA Medical Center Recovery Act: Establishes in the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) an Office of Failing Medical Center Recovery which will publish a compilation of key health metrics for each VA medical center; certify semiannually that each VA medical center ranked as "failing" is subject to operational control by the Office; revoke the certification of a VA medical center as a failing medical center if it achieves a ranking of "satisfactory" or better for three consecutive fiscal quarters; submit to Congress a quarterly report on the Office, including actions taken by the Under Secretary regarding covered failing medical centers; and transfer each covered failing medical center from the direct control of the relevant Veterans Integrated Service Network to the direct control of the Under Secretary. H.R. 2915, Female Veteran Suicide Prevention Act: Directs the VA to identify: (1) VA mental health care and suicide prevention programs most effective for women veterans, and (2) those programs with the highest satisfaction rates among women veterans in order to ensure each covered veteran may access VA mental health care in a manner that fully accommodates the veteran's obligation to not improperly disclose classified information; and any other provisions. H.R. 3106, Construction Reform Act of 2016: Requires the VA to: (1) enter into an agreement with an appropriate non-VA entity to provide full project management services for a super construction project; and (2) use industry standards, standard designs, and best practices in carrying out medical facility construction, among other provisions. H.R. 3016, Veterans Employment, Education, and Healthcare Improvement Act: Includes podiatrists within the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) definition of physician, and increases their pay grade to match other VA physician compensation. H.R. 2360, Career-Ready Student Veterans Act: Adds new criteria for state approval, with respect to the VA educational assistance, of applications of educational institutions providing veterans with non-accredited courses. H.R. 677, American Heroes COLA Act of 2015: Requires that, whenever there is an increase in benefit amounts payable under title II (Old Age, Survivors and Disability Insurance) of the Social Security Act, the Secretary of the VA shall increase by the same percentage the amounts payable as veterans' disability compensation, additional compensation for dependents, the clothing allowance for certain disabled adult children, and dependency and indemnity compensation for surviving spouses and children. H.R. 3894: Requires the prompt notification of State Child Protective Services by military and civilian personnel of the Department of Defense required by law to report suspected instances of child abuse and neglect. For information, please click here. ###
02.03.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) and Rep. Austin Scott (GA-08) welcomed the unanimous passage of the bipartisan H.R. 482, the Ocmulgee Mounds National Historic Park Boundary Revision Act, out of the U.S. House of Representatives’ full Committee on Natural Resources. Their bill would expand the boundaries of the Ocmulgee National Monument from approximately 700 acres to over 2,800 acres; change the name from “Ocmulgee National Monument” to “Ocmulgee Mounds National Historical Park” in order to increase name recognition and draw additional visitors; and authorize a resources study to expand the park even further and include additional opportunities for hunting, camping, fishing, and other recreational activities. “Passage of our bill in the House Natural Resources Committee is an important step, bringing us closer to strengthening the current Ocmulgee National Monument; bolstering the economy and cultural life of Georgia; and realizing a lasting memorial, enduring for generations,” said Congressman Sanford Bishop. “I’m thankful to the Natural Resources Committee for recognizing the importance of the Ocmulgee Mounds National Historic Park Boundary Revision Act and am honored to work on this issue with my colleague Congressman Sanford Bishop on behalf of the greater-Macon community,” said Congressman Austin Scott. “Ensuring that the Ocmulgee Mounds receive the National Park status and historical recognition they deserve will have a lasting positive economic and cultural impact in Middle Georgia.” Due to its history and archaeological importance, the future Ocmulgee Mounds National Historical Park deserves to be preserved as a lasting memorial to how individuals relate to the land and other natural resources. Its expansion and improvement would be a fitting tribute to the Native Americans who first came to this historical site during the Paleo-Indian period. The expanded park also will generate tourist revenue for Macon, Georgia and the surrounding areas while educating visitors on the little known fact that different cultures have occupied this land for thousands of years. The mounds and earth-lodges that the Mississippians built to serve as formal council chambers when they arrived in Macon around 900 A.D. remain intact for all to see and appreciate. Ocmulgee National Monument was originally authorized by Congress in 1934 to protect a fraction of the lands commonly known as the 'Old Ocmulgee Fields,' upon which certain Indian mounds of great historical importance are located. The legislation envisioned a large park of approximately 2,000 acres but local citizens could finance the acquisition of only 678 acres by the time it opened in 1936. Today, the Ocmulgee National Monument contains 702 acres. The role of the Ocmulgee National Monument is to "present a story of many stages of prehistoric cultural development, emphasizing the influences of agriculture, the Mound Builder period, and the relationship of these various cultures to each other and to life today." On October 10, 2014, the measure was endorsed by the Inter-Tribal Council of the Five Civilized Tribes (Cherokee, Chickasaw, Choctaw, Muscogee [Creek], and Seminole Nations), representing over 500,000 Indian people throughout the United States. To view the resolution of endorsement, please click here. ###
02.01.2016	CAMILLA, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies issued the following statement regarding the resignation of U.S. Department of Agriculture Deputy Secretary Krysta Harden, a native of Camilla, Georgia: “Growing up on a peanut farm in Mitchell County, Krysta Harden was well familiar with the need to support our farmers, hunger and health initiatives, food safety, and environmental conservation by the time she joined USDA in 2009. As Deputy Secretary, Krysta has strengthened America’s agricultural economy, lead the administrative implementation of the 2014 Farm Bill, and has overseen the passage of the Healthy, Hunger-Free Kids Act of 2010, making school lunch programs more available and nutritious. “As her Congressman and a long-time friend, I couldn’t be more proud of Krysta’s accomplishments as Deputy Secretary. She represents the highest standard of public service and will certainly be missed at USDA. Moving forward, it is critical that a USDA Deputy Secretary is nominated who can increase accessibility to food and nutritional education, tackle the challenges of the agricultural industry with insight and discernment, and continue Deputy Secretary Harden’s high level of service for America’s farming families and rural communities.” ###
01.28.2016	ADVISORY: SBA FEDERAL ECONOMIC INJURY DISASTER LOANS AVAILABLE IN GEORGIA ALBANY, GA—The U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) has announced that February 15, 2016 is the filing deadline for federal economic injury disaster loans for small businesses, small agricultural cooperatives, small aquaculture businesses, and most private nonprofit organizations within Georgia’s 2nd Congressional District affected by the thunderstorms and high winds on April 25-26, 2015. Up to $2 million of working capital disaster loans are available for eligible small businesses (4% interest rate) and for private non-profit organizations (2.625% interest rate) with terms up to 30 years. The low-interest disaster loans are available for the following Georgia counties: Early and Seminole counties. The loans are intended to pay fixed debts, payroll, accounts payable, and other expenses that could have been paid had the disaster not occurred. To be considered for this assistance, eligible entities need to apply by the deadline. To learn more about the application process for SBA disaster assistance loans, please click here and here. ###
01.22.2016	LAKE SEMINOLE, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop Jr. (GA-02) welcomed the U.S. Army Corps’ South Atlantic Division (SAD) announcement of the suspension of the new policy change prohibiting minor water withdrawals from lakes across the division, including Lake Seminole and Walter F George Lake. Congressman Bishop inquired about the rule in response to shared concerns from his constituents in Southwest Georgia. “Following a meeting with concerned adjacent landowners, we are suspending implementation of that portion of the new shoreline management policy that prohibits minor water withdrawals at lakes across the South Atlantic Division while we further review the policy and its implications for adjacent shoreline residents. The Districts will suspend the implementation of the policy effective immediately until the review is complete and further guidance is issued. The meeting was with landowners at Lake Hartwell on the Georgia side of the lake. However, as you can see the suspension applies to all lakes within South Atlantic Division which would include Lake Seminole and Walter F. George,” said E. Patrick Robbins Chief of Legislative and Public Affairs for the Mobile District, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. “A win for lake-front residents in Southwest Georgia, allowing minor water withdrawals will provide a safer and more accessible resource for property-owners adjacent to Lake Seminole and Lake Walter F. George,” said Congressman Bishop. The announcement impacts all property owners who have a permit to pump water from the reservoirs for their lawns and gardens and for other uses. Districts within the U.S. Army Corps’ South Atlantic Division (SAD), including the Mobile District encompassing Southwest Georgia, have been directed to suspend the implementation of the original policy effective immediately until the review is complete and further guidance is issued. For more information regarding the halt of the ruling, please click here. ###
01.17.2016	ALBANY, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement in advance of the upcoming Martin Luther King, Jr. holiday on Monday, January 18, 2016. “As we commemorate the life of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., we remember to work for a future brighter than the past, filled with the opportunities that give our nation so much promise. Dr. King envisioned a world where all are created equal, but his dream has only begun to be realized. “In order to make Dr. King’s dream a reality, we must all continue to strive toward a future free from discrimination, full of opportunity, devoid of homelessness, and with equal access to education so Americans can live up to their God-given potential. When we stand up against inequity, we work for a future filled with greater promise, and a reality with greater justice for all. “Dr. King lived, and eventually gave, his life refusing to stand silent in the face of adversity and turmoil. He once said, ‘Faith is sometimes taking the first step without seeing the full staircase.’ Dr. King helped us to take the first steps toward equality, we must help to finish building the staircase of justice and equal opportunity for all.” ###
01.13.2016	ALBANY, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop Jr. (GA-02), member of the U.S. House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies welcomed Vincent "Zippy" Duvall as the new president of the American Farm Bureau Federation (AFBF). “While I am sorry that my good friend Bob Stallman is leaving after 16 successful years as President, I am thrilled that his excellent work will be continued by Zippy Duvall. It is important that we have the most knowledgeable and invested individuals working for rural America, and AFBF has chosen well with Zippy’s election,” said Congressman Bishop. “Zippy has been valuable to Georgia while serving on the AFB Board of Directors, the Greene County Board of Commissioners, and Georgia Governor Sonny Perdue’s Agricultural Advisory Committee. As a representative and asset to local farmers, I trust Zippy’s new leadership will continue the American Farm Bureau Federation’s mission of strengthening the lives of rural Americans and agricultural communities across America.” Vincent "Zippy" Duvall (left) is a poultry, cattle, and hay producer from Greene County, Georgia, and served as president of the Georgia Farm Bureau for 9 years. Duvall has held numerous leadership positions in Farm Bureau and his local community. He is the 12th president of the American Farm Bureau Federation. Vincent "Zippy" Duvall replaces Bob Stallman as the President of the American Farm Bureau Federation. The Farm Bureau is an independent, non-governmental, non-partisan, non-sectarian voluntary organization governed by and representing farm and ranch families united for the purpose of analyzing their problems and formulating action to achieve educational improvement, economic opportunity and social advancement and, thereby, to promote the national well-being. For more information, please click here. ###
01.13.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) issued the following statement regarding President Obama’s State of the Union address to a joint session of Congress: “The President delivered a sincere and realistic speech about the state of our nation today, the challenges we face, and what we must do to meet these challenges. Over the past seven years, our economy has been rebuilt, affordable healthcare and renewable energy is more accessible, and America’s military and diplomatic standing has strengthened. And yet, while we have come so far since 2008, there is still a long way to go before the American people have a Congress characterized by bipartisan problem solving and not partisan bickering. “Debate is a natural consequence of a representative democracy. Gridlock, on the other hand, is not. Sitting down with those across the aisle is not just an act of placing faith in political or ideological adversaries, but an act of placing faith in our egalitarian democratic system which requires consensus to work. “And so, I will continue working with my Democratic and Republican colleagues not only to support innovation for the industries of tomorrow, ensure that the children of Georgia have the education needed for the jobs of tomorrow, and to secure our nation against the threats of tomorrow, but to also provide America the most effective Congress for tomorrow. It is an accountable, responsible, and more transparent government. One complete with lawmakers focused on forging an understanding of what it is to truly work together. Simply put, one worthy of the faith and trust of the American people.” ###
12.22.2015	Fort Valley, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) welcomes Dr. Paul Jones as the new President of Fort Valley State University (FVSU). The Board of Regents of the University System of Georgia named Dr. Jones as FVSU’s president after the strong recommendation by the Chancellor of the University System of Georgia, Hank Huckaby. “Giving our students the ability to receive a quality education is vital in today’s competitive society,” said Congressman Bishop. “I have faith Dr. Jones will build upon the 1890 Land Grant institution’s exceptional legacy at Fort Valley State University by continuing his proven track record of supporting meaningful opportunities for learning, growth, and service through the higher education system of Georgia.” Dr. Jones has served in numerous senior roles at Georgia College & State University, including vice president and interim president. Additionally, he has held positions on the Board of Directors for Goodwill Industries of Middle Georgia and of the Central Savannah River Area as well as on the Executive Committee of Washington County Archway. Dr. Jones has been serving as the interim president of Darton State College (DSC) since 2013. During his presidency, Dr. Jones focused on improving DSC’s administrative functions, legal affairs, and internal audit departments. Furthermore, he successfully increased the number of online degrees offered at DSC and worked to improve the transfer process between Darton and Albany State University for students to earn their degree. An 1890 Land Grant institution with strength in the STEM fields, agriculture research, and extension services, Dr. Jones’ new challenge will be building upon FVSU’s rich history of agriculture research and community development. For more information about on FVSU, please click here. For more information about Dr. Paul Jones, please click here. ###
12.22.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Ranking Member of the U.S. House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, released the following statement regarding his support of the bipartisan Fiscal Year (FY) 2016 Omnibus Appropriations government spending bill. The bill was approved by the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 316 to 113, was approved by the U.S. Senate, and has been signed into law by the President. “The House of Representatives came together with a balanced compromise to provide the resources needed to create jobs, boost our economic growth, bolster education, invest in our infrastructure, and support our working families. Overall, the bill achieves a number of victories for Georgia and the American people, especially in providing for education, job training, medical research, worker safety, child care, and food security. “Regarding the MilCon/VA section of the bill, a number of the bill’s highlights will have a profound impact on the lives of our nation’s veterans. For example, the amount of funding for Hepatitis C treatment to was raised to $1.5 billion in an effort to eliminate the disease among the veteran population. Additionally, in order to combat veterans’ homelessness, suicide, and PTSD, we have also included $7.5 billion for mental health care services. Additionally, I am confident that the FY2016 bill provides our military the resources it needs to defend our country and fund the services our veterans may need to carry out successful, productive lives. "Within the Agriculture section of the Omnibus, we worked to prioritize support for American farmers and ranchers, approving $21.75 billion in discretionary funding and $925 million above last year's enacted level. The strong funding for agriculture production, safe food and medicines research, and rural development will go far to promote U.S. agriculture, create jobs, and strengthen our economy. “That being said, it is high time Congress returns to regular working order—a process that starts with a realistic allocation, rejects the omnibus model, returns to passing individually tailored spending bills, and utilizing the entire legislative process to determine how our government responsibly invests in the American people. Truly, regular order is better for the governmental process, the Members, and this august institution in which we serve.” BACKGROUND: GEORGIA PROJECTS: · $113.7 million to complete the remaining design and construction of the Southeast Poultry Research Laboratory in Athens, Georgia. This is in addition to the FY2015 appropriation which provided $45 million to begin a phased design and construction project for the facility, which is the highest priority facility recommended for modernization. It will be the primary research laboratory studying the avian flu, which has devastated the US poultry industry, particularly in the west and Midwest regions of the country · $90 million for a command and control facility at Fort Gordon · $7.851 million for ground source heat pumps for the Navy in Albany · $8.099 million for industrial control system infrastructure for the Navy at Kings Bay · $48.279 million for a bombing range expansion (Phase 2) for the Navy at Townsend · $10.9 million to replace a pump-house and truck fill stands at Moody Air Force Base · $9 million for a C-130 squadron operations facility at Savannah/Hilton Head International Airport for the Air National Guard · $770 thousand for the Army Corps of Engineers construction on Richard B. Russell Dam and Lake · $8.663 million for the Army Corps of Engineers construction on Savannah Harbor disposal areas · $21.050 million for the Army Corps of Engineers construction on Savannah Harbor Expansion For more information regarding the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs section of the FY2016 Omnibus, please click here. For more information regarding the agriculture section of the FY2016 Omnibus, please click here. For more information about the whole FY2016 Omnibus appropriations bill, please click here and here. ###
12.10.2015	ALBANY, GA – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) welcomes the University System of Georgia appointment of Dr. Arthur Dunning as the President of Albany State University (ASU). Dr. Dunning has served ASU as interim president since November of 2013. “With such an increased importance on higher learning in today’s competitive world, it is critical that our universities continue to improve the education of our young adults,” said Congressman Bishop. “Dr. Dunning displayed excellent leadership and dedication to the student body during his time as interim president, and so I have every confidence in Dr. Dunning to lead ASU into the future.” Dr. Dunning has consistently demonstrated his abilities to improve the educational system in Georgia. Previously a full tenured professor in the University of Georgia’s Institute of Higher Education, Dr. Dunning has held a number of executive roles at the University System of Georgia and the University of Alabama system, and served as chief executive officer of Georgia Partnership for Excellence in Education, Inc. During his time as interim president, Dr. Dunning worked to improve administrative efficiency, educational outreach, and enacted articulation agreements enabling students from Darton State College and Albany Technical College to seamlessly transition to ASU’s variety of degree programs. For more information about on ASU’s new permanent president, please click here. ###
12.08.2015	WASHINGTON D.C.—Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) strengthened border security and addressed vulnerabilities in the current Department of Homeland Security’s (DHS) Visa Waiver Program (VWP) by co-sponsoring and voting to pass bipartisan H.R. 158, the Visa Waiver Program Improvement Act of 2015. This bipartisan legislation prohibits individuals who have been to Syria and Iraq from entering the United States unless they are interviewed by U.S. officials and get a regular visa, even if they are from countries that participate in the Visa Waiver Program. H.R. 158 also updates the requirements for countries to participate in the program, including requiring fraud resistant electronic passports containing certain biographic and biometric information. “In today’s dangerous world, vigilance is essential to our national security,” said Congressman Bishop. “H.R. 158 bolsters the screening process for foreign nationals and addresses security vulnerabilities found within the Visa Waiver Program, making our nation more safe and secure.” The Visa Waiver Program allows nationals from 38 countries, 30 of which are in Europe, to enter the United States as visitors for business or pleasure for up to 90 days without first obtaining a visa from a U.S. embassy or consulate abroad. Nationals from participating Visa Waiver Program countries are required to complete a U.S. government online security screening form, referred to as the Electronic System for Travel Authorization (ESTA), prior to departure for the United States and at the port of entry by a U.S. Customs and Border Protection official. Generally, travelers from non-VWP countries who want to enter the United States as visitors must obtain a visa from the State Department, which involves undergoing more extensive security screening, including biometric (i.e. fingerprint) security screening, and an in-person interview with a Department of State Consular Officer at a consular post abroad prior to travel. H.R. 158 bill makes nationals of VWP countries who have traveled to Iraq, Syria, designated state sponsors of terrorism (Iran and Sudan), and other “countries or areas of concern” since March 1, 2011, as well as anyone who is a dual national of one of those countries and a VWP country, ineligible to travel to the U.S. under the VWP. Instead, they are required to obtain a visa, as visitors from non-VWP countries have to do. They now also have to have an in-person interview with a U.S. Department of State Consular official and undergo more extensive security screening, including biometric (i.e. fingerprint) security screening. H.R. 158 was approved by the House of Representatives in a vote of 407 to 19. For more information regarding the Visa Waiver Program Improvement Act of 2015, please click here. ###
12.04.2015	WASHINGTON D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) joined with 359 Democratic and Republican colleagues in the House of Representatives to adopt the conference agreement on H.R. 22, Fixing America’s Surface Transportation Act -- a measure that reauthorizes $281 billion in guaranteed funding for highway, bridge, transportation safety, and public transit projects for the next five years. “While the bill significantly increases funding needed to repair and rebuild our aging system of roads and bridges, it only puts the effort in gear and on the road,” said Congressman Bishop. “Future transportation legislation must take our crumbling infrastructure seriously and find a long-term, sustainable source of funding for highways, bridges, and transit to fully address this challenge while strengthening our economy in the process.” The measure also reauthorizes the critically important Export-Import Bank for four years, which helps American workers and businesses compete in the global economy. In the Second Congressional District from 2014 to 2015, the Export-Import Bank reported an authorization of $51 million to provide insurance policies, loan guarantees, or direct loans to facilitate exports. It further reported that $98 million has been disbursed in total insured shipments, guaranteed credit, or disbursed loan amounts supported by Ex-Im Bank. The total dollar value of exports related to Ex-Im Bank's authorized financing was $382 million. Ex-Im financing went to four exporters in the Second Congressional District, all of which are small businesses. Recipients include; Swift Spinning in Columbus, Thrush Aircraft in Albany; Grid Power Products in Macon; and Easterlin Pecan Company in Montezuma. “Here in the Second District alone, some 4,000 jobs are directly related to the financing provided by the Ex-Im Bank,” said Congressman Bishop. “It is vital that the U.S. companies and workers are competitive in a global economy, so today’s win is a boon for all American jobs, small businesses, and our rural communities.” Since 2009, Ex-Im programs have supported about $217 billion in U.S. exports and 1.3 million private-sector jobs. Last fiscal year, Ex-Im supported an estimated $27.5 billion in exports and 164,000 jobs nationwide. Nearly 90 percent of Ex-Im’s FY 2014 transactions were for the direct benefit of small businesses. Ex-Im’s loan and loan guarantee programs help to fill gaps in private-sector financing, which is particularly important during financial crises, when credit can dry up. Ex-Im’s authorizations tripled between 2007 and 2012, as the bank stepped in to support U.S. exports during the recession and in its immediate aftermath. Ex-Im does not cost taxpayers a dime. In fact, since 1992, investments made by Ex-Im have brought a profit of $7 billion to the Treasury, including $675 million last year. Offsets within H.R. 22 cover the cost of reversing a $3 billion cut to crop insurance made as part of November's two-year budget deal placing a cap on the overall rate of return for private insurers of crop insurance. Groups supporting H.R. 22 include the American Farm Bureau Federation, Georgia Agribusiness Council, Georgia Transportation Alliance, National Rural Electric Cooperatives Association, National Cotton Council, Business Roundtable, National Association of Manufacturers, AFL-CIO, International Union of Operating Engineers, North America’s Building Trades Unions, American Public Transportation Association, American Society of Civil Engineers, National Governors Association, National Conference of State Legislatures, and others. The conference agreement H.R. 22 was approved by the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 359 to 65 and now goes to the President for signature. For more information on the Export-Import Bank activity in Middle and Southwest Georgia, please click here. ###
11.18.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) fights to bring back the 219 Nigerian schoolgirls kidnapped by Boko Haram by co-sponsoring H.R. 3833, a bill requiring the United States to develop a strategy to defeat Boko Haram. Introduced by Congresswoman Frederica Wilson (FL-24), the bill directs the Secretaries of State and Defense to develop a 5-year strategy to assist the multinational task force in defeating Boko Haram and to rebuild the region’s infrastructure to prevent the rise of another terrorist organization. “It is an atrocity that the 219 Chibok schoolgirls have still not been returned home safely a year and a half after their abduction by Boko Haram,” said Congressman Bishop. “The United States must fight Boko Haram not only for their egregious violations of human rights, but for the security of the region and the world as a whole.” Boko Haram, an ISIS-linked group, is responsible for using kidnapped girls as young as 10 as suicide bombers, the displacement of 2.2 million Nigerians, and the deaths of 15,000 people in the region since 2009. H.R. 3833 directs the Secretaries of State and Defense to develop a joint 5-year strategy that would assist the Nigerian government, Members of the Multinational Joint Task Force to Combat Boko Haram, and other international partners in countering the regional threat of Boko Haram. The strategy should also help the Nigerian and neighboring governments with their efforts to address the complaints of vulnerable populations in areas affected by Boko Haram. To read a summary of the bill, click here. To read the text of the bill, click here. ###
11.18.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement regarding the issue of Syrian refugees: “First and foremost, our most pressing responsibility is to protect the American people. The brutality shown by ISIS during the recent attacks in Paris and Beirut exemplifies the necessity for vigilance across the Homeland as well as the urgency to proactively counter future terrorist threats to the United States. Ensuring all refugees seeking asylum on our shores continue to be subjected to the highest level of intensive screening in order to weed out those who would do us harm from those ‘tired, poor, huddled masses yearning to be free’, our nation must remain a beacon of hope for those fleeing persecution, for future Americans, and for the rest of humanity.” ###
11.09.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) supported the passage of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) conference report for Fiscal Year 2016. The agreement authorizes $515 billion, in discretionary base budget authority, including roughly $496.4 billion for the Department of Defense base budget and $18.6 billion for defense-related activities of the Department of Energy. However, the report would also authorize more than $89.2 billion for DOD overseas contingency operations. The Administration requested $50.9 billion. The report identifies the difference of roughly $38.3 billion as discretionary budget authority in support of base budget requirements. “Passage of the FY 2016 National Defense Authorization Act protects our bases, strengthens our military capabilities, and brings about a collective sigh of relief from service members and their families who have sacrificed so much to receive so little in return. Among our highest priorities as a nation should be the defense of our citizens and the values and freedoms we hold dear and the support and protection of those who so bravely put their lives on the line. Mission and family readiness at Fort Benning, the Marine Corps Logistics Base in Albany, Robins Air Force Base, and other bases in Georgia are vital to our national defense and to our communities, realities that this bill underscores in a very prominent fashion.” The report institutes a minimal one-time increase of TRICARE Pharmacy co-pays and would implement a more robust financial benefit training program to improve the financial literacy and preparedness of service members. The report requires the Department to take into consideration the recommendations of the Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission and the Boston Consulting Group report on commissaries and provide an implementation plan to execute a cost-neutral system. The report prevents the Department of Defense from conducting another round of BRAC. The measure authorizes funding for train-and-equip efforts in Syria, Iraq, and Ukraine as well as $3.8 billion for the Afghan National Security Forces. The measure extends the administration's authority to train and equip Syrian rebels fighting both ISIS and the Assad regime and authorizes funding to help train the Iraqi Army in its fight against ISIS. The NDAA conference report was approved by the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 370 to 58 and goes to the President for his signature. For more information regarding the Continuing Resolution and its provisions, please click here. ###
11.06.2015	ALBANY, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement regarding the passing of Jane Willson, a businesswoman and philanthropist from Albany, Georgia: “My heart is heavy with the news of Jane Willson’s passing. She helped make Albany the city it is today through her dedicated service to local organizations. Though she enjoyed great success with business, making Willson Farming and Sunnyland Farms global successes, she will most likely be remembered for her dedication to philanthropy and improving her community. “Mrs. Willson’s selflessness has been an inspiration to all who knew her, including myself. She donated much of herself, and became a prominent part of the fabric of the charitable institutions she supported. Truly, her generosity will live on in Albany for years to come. “Jane Willson has left behind a strong legacy of humanitarianism to her family, friends, and the state of Georgia and we will mourn her passing deeply. I send my sincerest condolences to her loved ones during this difficult time. I pray they will be comforted by her memory and the graciousness she showed to our community.” ###
10.29.2015	WASHINGTON D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) hailed the passage of a reauthorization of the Export-Import Bank of the United States (Ex-Im) in the U.S. House of Representatives. Following the use of a rare ‘discharge petition’, Republicans and Democrats came together in support of H.R. 597, the Reform Exports and Expand the American Economy Act, which would reauthorize and reform the Ex-Im Bank as well as strengthen it for the future. A wholly owned U.S. government corporation, the Ex-Im Bank is the official export credit agency (ECA) of the United States and finances and facilitates U.S. exports of goods and services while supporting U.S. employment. “Here in the Second District alone, some 4,000 jobs are directly related to the financing provided by the Ex-Im Bank,” said Congressman Bishop. “It is vital that the U.S. companies and workers are competitive in a global economy, so today’s win is a boon for all American jobs, small businesses, and our rural communities.” In the Second Congressional District from 2014 to 2015, the Export-Import Bank reported an authorization of $51 million to provide insurance policies, loan guarantees, or direct loans to facilitate exports. It further reported that $98 million has been disbursed in total insured shipments, guaranteed credit, or disbursed loan amounts supported by Ex-Im Bank. The total dollar value of exports related to Ex-Im Bank's authorized financing was $382 million. Ex-Im financing went to four exporters in the Second Congressional District, all of which are small businesses. Recipients include; Swift Spinning in Columbus, Thrush Aircraft in Albany; Grid Power Products in Macon; and Easterlin Pecan Company in Montezuma. “Job creation at Ex-Im financed companies is where the rubber meets the road, and if we want a flourishing American economy, Ex-Im Bank is the kind of government agency we ought to be supporting,” concluded Congressman Bishop. Since 2009, Ex-Im programs have supported about $217 billion in U.S. exports and 1.3 million private-sector jobs. Last fiscal year, Ex-Im supported an estimated $27.5 billion in exports and 164,000 jobs nationwide. Nearly 90 percent of Ex-Im’s FY 2014 transactions were for the direct benefit of small businesses. Ex-Im’s loan and loan guarantee programs help to fill gaps in private-sector financing, which is particularly important during financial crises, when credit can dry up. Ex-Im’s authorizations tripled between 2007 and 2012, as the bank stepped in to support U.S. exports during the recession and in its immediate aftermath. Ex-Im does not cost taxpayers a dime. In fact, since 1992, investments made by Ex-Im have brought a profit of $7 billion to the Treasury, including $675 million last year. H.R. 597 was approved by the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 313 to 118 and now goes to the U.S. Senate for consideration. For more information on the Export-Import Bank activity in Middle and Southwest Georgia, please click here. ###
10.29.2015	WASHINGTON D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement regarding the election of a new Speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives, Paul Ryan of Wisconsin: “To everything there is a season, and today, the leadership of the People’s House shifts from the Honorable John Boehner of Ohio to a proud son of Wisconsin, Representative Paul Ryan. The inability of members of Congress to cooperate with each other cries out for a renewed commitment to joint problem solving for the common good of the nation. Only time will tell, but under Speaker Ryan’s leadership, I am hopeful for a new season, defined less by dysfunction and more by bipartisan progress for the American People.” ###
10.29.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), member of the U.S. House Appropriations Committee, issued the following statement regarding the U.S. House passage of the House Amendment to the Senate Amendment to H.R. 1314, the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015. The agreement provides two years of sequester relief for both defense and non-defense priorities. The deal prevents a sharp increase in Medicare Part B premiums for certain beneficiaries in 2016 and includes a clean debt limit suspension until March 2017. “After years of damage due to sequestration, the bipartisan budget agreement as passed by the House finally represents a step in the right direction,” said Congressman Bishop. “Reflecting the values held by many in Georgia, we have worked across the aisle to pass a budget to protect our seniors, invest in job training and veterans’ medical care, and keep America safe.” The agreement provides additional resources and the funding stability needed to protect our country, counter future threats, and take care of the nation’s Armed Forces. It provides significant resources for the Department of Defense to ensure military readiness and prepare for threats faced in the future. The passed version of the budget agreement avoids proposed cuts to crop insurance. The budget agreement will also avoid harmful funding cuts for national security activities at non-defense agencies like State, Homeland Security, and the Department of Veterans Affairs. “The budget compromise will avert a manufactured crisis, help our economy continue to strengthen, and provide crucial investment in our nation’s future as the agreement is major step forward for education, health care research, and our economy,” continued Congressman Bishop. Analysis of CBO’s previous estimates suggests that this budget agreement will lead to 340,000 additional American jobs in 2016 alone. It boosts growth and job creation, provides greater certainty to American businesses and workers, and avoids the manufactured crises that have led to shutdowns and fiscal brinkmanship in the past. “Legislating from one fiscal crisis to another is no way to govern. The budget agreement proves that Congress can still solve problems by working together in a bipartisan manner. It is a win for the American people,” concluded Congressman Bishop. BACKGROUND: The budget agreement prevents the deep budget cuts that would result from locking in sequestration. Instead, it allows for us to increase investments in key areas like: Defense Budget: The deal would boost the spending restrictions on the base defense budget by $25 billion to $548 billion in FY 2016 and by $15 billion to $551 billion in FY 2017. In addition, it would provide some $59 billion for the war budget in each of the next two fiscal years, resulting in an overall defense budget of $607 billion and $610 billion, respectively. Crop Insurance: Congressman Bishop worked with House Agriculture Committee Chairman Michael Conaway and Ranking Member Collin Peterson to reverse a disastrous provision within a previous draft to avoid cuts to crop insurance. Research: This agreement will allow us to increase research funding for the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and the National Science Foundation (NSF). By contrast, despite bipartisan agreement that we need to invest in these areas, a full-year continuing resolution (CR) at sequestration levels would result in $1 billion less in NIH funding and nearly 1,000 fewer NSF grants than under the President’s budget. Education: This agreement will allow us to invest in education and Head Start. By contrast, under a full-year CR at sequestration levels, per-pupil education funding would fall to the lowest levels since 2000, adjusted for inflation, and Head Start would be flat-funded, which would mean roughly 2,000 fewer children served than in 2015, all else equal, and roughly 17,000 fewer children served than in 2014. Veterans’ Medical Care: While Democrats and Republicans agree that we need to invest more in vets’ medical care, this agreement is necessary to make that possible. By contrast, a full-year CR at sequestration levels would mean $1 billion less for Veterans’ medical care relative to the President’s Budget request. Balanced Budgeting: The agreement is paid for in a balanced way – including tax compliance measures and avoiding harmful cuts to Medicare or Social Security beneficiaries, or other problematic entitlement reforms. Job Training: While a full-year CR at sequestration levels would result in two million fewer workers with job training and employment services compared to the President’s budget, this agreement will allow us to increase investments in job training. Medicare: The legislation prevents a roughly 50 percent increase in the Medicare Part B premium in 2016, protecting millions of seniors from cost increases. The legislation prevents an unprecedented increase in the Medicare Part B premium of roughly 50 percent in 2016 by spreading out the cost of replenishing the Medicare Supplemental Medical Insurance Trust Fund over a number of years – and prevents the same problem from happening in 2017. The health savings included in the agreement focus on tackling well-documented areas of overpayment and improve program integrity, squeezing waste out of the system. Social Security: The agreement avoids deep cuts to Social Security Disability Insurance (DI) benefits that would occur at the end of next year, ensuring that the program can continue to pay full benefits without reducing benefit levels or imposing new eligibility restrictions. Tax Reform: It includes $11 billion in revenues from tax compliance, mostly from significant reforms to improve tax compliance among investors in hedge funds, private equity funds, and other large partnerships. Congressman Bishop supported passage of H.R. 1314. The bill was approved in the House of Representatives by a vote of 266 to 167 and now goes on to the Senate for consideration. For more information regarding H.R. 1314, the Bipartisan Budget Agreement of 2015, please click here. ###
10.27.2015	ALBANY, GA – The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’ (HHS) Administration for Children and Families has announced the release of over $3 billion for the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) for the Fiscal Year (FY) 2016. LIHEAP aids individuals and families, especially seniors and children, heat their homes in the winter, cool their homes in the summer, and assist with insulation to ensure that their homes are energy efficient. Grantees with completed FY 2016 LIHEAP plans will receive award letters with their individual allotments. Each grantee that submitted a complete LIHEAP plan for FY 2016 received the funding available under the Continuing Resolution. Georgia has received $48,814,457 in LIHEAP funds for FY 2016. HHS previously awarded $3.05 billion nationwide in June 2015, for a total of $3.35 billion year-to-date. Congress appropriated these funds under the Continuing Appropriations Resolution FY 2016, Public Law 114-53, which was signed into law on September 30, 2015. For more information about LIHEAP, please click here. ###
10.26.2015	ALBANY, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop Jr. (GA-02) spearheaded a letter with Congressmen John Lewis (GA-05), Henry ‘Hank’ Johnson Jr. (GA-04), and David Scott (GA-13) to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) raising concerns regarding Sabal Trail’s application for a certificate of public convenience and necessity to construct a 516-mile-long, 36-inch-diameter natural gas pipeline through Alabama, Georgia, and Florida. The letter especially cites the proposed location of the pipeline and an accompanying compressor station in Albany, Georgia, which is located in Dougherty County. The proposed location raises serious environmental justice issues that have not been fully addressed by FERC in its Draft Environmental Impact Statement (DEIS) for the project. Congressman Bishop, as well as Representatives Lewis, Scott, and Johnson, are members of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), which has highlighted issues of environmental justice. The Environmental Protection Agency defines environmental justice as, “the fair treatment and meaningful involvement of all people regardless of race, color, national origin, or income with respect to the development, implementation, and enforcement of environmental laws, regulations, and policies.” Among the CBC’s initiatives on this issue are health disparities and the environment, the impact of Hurricane Katrina on minority communities, and opposing the location of a dangerous plastics plant in a poor, black community in Louisiana. The full text of the letter is below: October 23, 2015 Norman C. Bay, Chairman Tony Clark, Commissioner Cheryl A. LaFleur, Commissioner Phillip D. Moeller, Commissioner Colette D. Honorable, Commissioner Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 888 First Street, N.E. Washington, D.C. 20426 Re: Sabal Trail Transmission, LLC FERC Docket No. CP15-17-000 Dear Commissioners: We are writing to express our concerns regarding Sabal Trail Transmission, LLC’s (“Sabal Trail”) application for a certificate of public convenience and necessity to construct a 516-mile-long, 36-inch-diameter natural gas pipeline through Alabama, Georgia, and Florida. If approved, approximately 160 miles of the pipeline would traverse nine counties in southwest Georgia, five of which are located in Georgia’s Second Congressional District represented by Congressman Sanford Bishop. We are especially concerned about the proposed location of the pipeline and an accompanying compressor station in Albany, Georgia, which is located in Dougherty County. The proposed location raises serious environmental justice issues that have not been fully addressed by FERC in its Draft Environmental Impact Statement (DEIS) for the project. The population of Dougherty County and the City of Albany is approximately 72% African-American. The median household income is only $28,871 for a family of four. Approximately 32% of the population lives below the poverty line. The unemployment rate also is higher than the state average. In the southern part of Dougherty County, the communities are overburdened by pollution with 259 hazardous waste facilities, 78 facilities producing and releasing air pollutants, 20 facilities releasing toxic pollutants, and 16 facilities releasing pollutants into the waters of the United States. Cancer rates and cancer-related deaths are higher in southwest Georgia than in the rest of the state. Sabal Trail’s proposed pipeline and compressor station will further burden an already overburdened and disadvantaged African-American community in this area. Sabal Trail’s proposed route will go through Albany and Dougherty County and will run through low-income African-American neighborhoods. The proposed industrial compressor station facility would sit right in the middle of an African-American residential neighborhood comprised of two large subdivisions, a mobile home park, schools, recreational facilities, and the 5,000-plus member Mount Zion Baptist Church, a predominantly African-American congregation. The statement in FERC’s DEIS that the compressor station would not be located in an environmental justice community is not correct. In fact, FERC acknowledges in its DEIS that 71% of environmental justice populations would be affected by the Sabal Trail Project and that the percentage of environmental justice populations in Doughtery County is 85% (see DEIS at p. 3-217). The compressor station would occupy several acres, have a height of six stories, and have two 21,000 horsepower turbines running 24 hours a day every day of the week. It would be lit up all night long, emit thousands of tons of pollutants into the air each year, and constitute a non-stop source of noise and vibration. The undisputed evidence in the record shows that this massive compressor station would emit so much pollution that it would further contribute to the City of Albany exceeding the National Ambient Air Quality Standards under the federal Clean Air Act for nitrogen oxides. In addition, studies have documented that noise pollution causes adverse health effects including vibro-acoustic disease, hypertension, heart disease, hearing impairment, communication problems, sleep disturbance, and adverse cognitive effects including memory loss and behavioral problems. The nitrogen oxides and volatile organic chemicals that the compressor station would emit are known to harm respiratory, cardiological, neurological, and kidney functions as well as cause premature death. Even small levels of nitrogen oxides can cause nausea, irritation of the eyes and nasal passages, fluid in the lungs, and shortness of breath. The area already has among the highest incidences of stroke, heart disease, diabetes, cancer, and obesity. This residential area therefore is the last place where such a facility should be placed, and it most certainly should not be located near a disadvantaged African-American neighborhood that has already borne more than its fair share of pollution. Furthermore, the proposed pipeline route and compressor station location would lie in a limestone karst-laden area that is highly prone to the development of sinkholes – a fact highlighted in the DEIS. Indeed, the pipeline route through Dougherty County alone features nearly 70 actual and potential sinkholes. Of even greater concern is the fact that the pipeline will run through Albany’s well field that is already pockmarked with over 40 sinkholes. The well field provides drinking water for 35,000 of the City’s residents. The development of a sinkhole beneath the pipeline or compressor station would create a substantial risk of pipeline collapse, rupture, and explosion that could cause untold property damage, bodily injury, and death. Given the demographics of Albany and Dougherty County, such an event would adversely impact African-Americans living there. The potential for a catastrophic explosion is not a speculative concern in light of the many pipeline accidents that have occurred in recent months including an explosion on a Spectra natural gas pipeline beneath the Arkansas River earlier this year and a compressor station explosion that killed three people in Louisiana earlier this year. As you may be aware, 18 C.F.R. § 380.15 requires that any compressor station be located in an ‘unobtrusive location.’ It is clear to us that placing Sabal Trail’s proposed compressor station in the heart of an African-American residential neighborhood hardly qualifies as an unobtrusive location. Moreover, in accordance with Presidential Executive Order 12,898 (“Federal Actions to Address Environmental Justice in Minority Populations and Low-Income Populations”), FERC is obligated to address environmental justice issues that may be raised by Sabal Trail’s proposed pipeline project with respect to minority and low-income communities (Exec. Order No. 12,898, 59 Fed. Reg. 7629 (Feb. 11, 1994)). Proper application of that Order mandates moving the proposed pipeline route and compressor station location. Apart from the above legal considerations, common sense would suggest that a pipeline carrying a highly flammable substance and a massive polluting industrial facility should not be placed in any residential community, much less an environmental justice community. It should be more evident when the underlying karst geology creates a significant risk of substantial harm and when other alternative routes and locations exist. It would be reasonable to slightly alter the route of the pipeline outside the largest urban area in southwest Georgia and to move the compressor station to a more rural location given that much of the surrounding area is comprised of agricultural land. Surely this modification can be done for a pipeline that would run for 160 miles through southwest Georgia. It is essential that FERC require Sabal Trail to abandon its proposed pipeline route and compressor station location and to propose alternatives that will not adversely impact environmental justice communities in southwest Georgia. We would greatly appreciate your attention to this matter and would request a prompt written response. Sincerely, Sanford D. Bishop, Jr., Member of Congress John Lewis, Member of Congress Henry C. “Hank” Johnson, Jr., Member of Congress David Scott, Member of Congress To view a scan of the letter, please click here. Congressman Bishop has written two letters to the FERC – in November 2014 and May 2015 – raising serious concerns about the route of the pipeline through Southwest Georgia, the use of eminent domain, the location of the compressor station near Albany, and whether the citizens of the Second Congressional District actually will stand to benefit. Earlier this month, he wrote to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers about Sabal Trail’s application for a Section 404 permit under the Clean Water Act which is needed to encroach upon numerous “waters of the U.S.” Bishop successfully urged the Corps to extend the public comment period for the Section 404 permit by two months until December 11, 2015. To view the entire U.S. Army Corps of Engineers public notice regarding the Sabal Pipeline project, please click here. To view the joint public notice of extension, please click here. To read the FERC Environmental Impact Statement, please click here. ###
10.15.2015	ALBANY, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop Jr. (GA-02) encouraged interested stakeholders to take advantage of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers extension of the public comment period for Section 404 permits under the Clean Water Act with respect to the construction of the Sabal Trail natural gas pipeline. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers is responsible for Section 404 permits, which are needed to encroach upon numerous “waters of the U.S.” (i.e. wetlands, streams, and rivers) that the pipeline would run through or under if Sabal Trail’s application is approved. Congressman Bishop was contacted by constituents and stakeholders concerned that the original thirty-day deadline was insufficient for the public to thoroughly review Sabal Trail’s application. In response, Congressman Bishop urged the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to extend the public comment period for Section 404 permits under the Clean Water Act with respect to the construction of the Sabal Trail natural gas pipeline, and they responded. The new deadline to comment is December 11, 2015. “Given the potential impact of the project on Southwest Georgia, I urge the public to use the comment period extension to let your opinion be heard regarding the issuance of Sabal Trail Section 404 permit by the Corps of Engineers,” said Congressman Bishop. THE PUBLIC COMMENT PERIOD ENDS ON DECEMBER 11, 2015. Comments can be submitted in writing to: U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Savannah District Regulatory Division Attn: Mr. Terry Kobs 1104 North Westover Boulevard, Suite 9 Albany, Georgia 31707-6626 Sabal Trail is a 465-mile gas pipeline (55 miles in Alabama, 196 miles in Georgia, and 214 miles in Florida) that will be capable of transporting up to one billion cubic feet of natural gas per day. Much of the Georgia route of the pipeline with run through the Second Congressional District. To view the entire U.S. Army Corps of Engineers public notice regarding the Sabal Pipeline project, please click here. To view the joint public notice of extension, please click here. To read the FERC Environmental Impact Statement, please click here. ###
10.14.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop Jr. (GA-02) welcomed the U.S. Court of Appeals’ decision to halt the nationwide enforcement of the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) water pollution rule. “Last Friday, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit halted the enforcement of an unnecessary regulation targeting vital resources of farmers and small business owners in rural America,” said Congressman Bishop. “Thankfully, the EPA’s overbearing regulation won’t go into effect, and I applaud the courts for halting the potential confusion and governmental overreach.” Last year, Congressman Bishop supported passage of H.R. 5078. The measure would prohibit the EPA and the Army Corps of Engineers from finalizing, implementing, or enforcing either guidance or a rule proposed last year that would supposedly clarify the federal government's authority to regulate certain intrastate waters under the Clean Water Act, and requires the agencies to consult with state and local officials to develop a new regulatory proposal. To view Congressman Bishop’s previous statement on the rule, please click here. ###
10.14.2015	MACON, GA— Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) is proud to announce a $266,230 grant has been awarded to First Choice Primary Care, Inc. in Macon, Georgia by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). The grant will go towards facility planning and construction, health services planning and technical support, program development, as well as improving and expanding general health and medical services. The grants will also be used to improve education and training programs for health care employees. “I am very grateful that First Choice Primary Care will be able to expand resources in providing services to the Macon area,” said Congressman Bishop. “The importance of one’s health cannot be understated and now this non-profit organization will have the means to improve the delivery of primary and preventive health care.” “This supplemental funding from HRSA will help First Choice Primary Care expand its efforts to provide patient centered primary care to the underserved, increase behavioral health services, improve services for patients with cardiovascular disease, and strengthen our quality programs,” said Katherine McLeod, Chief Executive Officer of First Choice Primary Care. “Our partnerships with River Edge Behavioral Health, the Bibb County School District, Communities in Schools and others will help us make the most of this opportunity to make a difference in the lives of Middle Georgia residents.” For more information regarding First Choice Primary Care, please click here. ###
10.01.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) supported the Continuing Resolution (CR) for Fiscal Year 2016. The legislation continues funding for all government operations through December 11, 2015 and was approved by a vote of 277 to 151. “It is vitally important that Congress averts a government shutdown so crucial services provided by the government continue to be available to seniors, families, small business, veterans, and our communities in Georgia. I am pleased that this government funding bill will ensure continued operations, but this is no victory to celebrate. Our government cannot afford to continue investing in its priorities through short term, haphazard funding measures, and so, I look forward to passing all twelve appropriations bills for complete government funding before the end of the year.” For more information regarding the Continuing Resolution and its provisions, please click here. ###
09.25.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement after Pope Francis’ historic address to the Joint Meeting of Congress: “As a Christian and as a public servant, I was pleased to be in the presence of Pope Francis as he spoke at the White House and again at the Joint Session of Congress. His dialogue with the American people inspired us regardless of political party to continue in the ‘tireless and demanding pursuit of the common good’ and to do unto others as we would have them do unto us. “It was a message of peace, but also a message of caution. Speaking directly to a United States Congress weighted down with partisan bickering, Pope Francis’ words encouraged us to stand up to polarization and conflict with a response of peace and healing. Though today’s world is often characterized by callous acts of violence and greed, a dangerously shifting climate, and serial injustice towards our fellow man, if we–as a people—can focus on loving our neighbors and our family, resetting our nation’s priorities, and pursuing the American Dream once again, our United States will continue to remain the rightful Land of the Free and Home of the Brave. “It was an honor to hear Pope Francis’ dialogue in person, and look forward working with my colleagues to reflect the vision and grace of Pope Francis for the American people.” ###
09.25.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement today after Speaker John Boehner announced his resignation: "The resignation of my friend, Speaker John Boehner, reflects the frustration that many Americans feel as a result of a Congress that has proven increasingly dysfunctional over the last few years. The inability of members of the Republican Conference to cooperate with each other, let alone with Democrats in the House, cries out for renewed commitment to less finger-pointing and more joint problem solving for the common good of the American People. I thank John Boehner for his service and his friendship and wish the best for him and his family going forward." ###
09.10.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement regarding his support of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) relating to the nuclear program of Iran: WHY I SUPPORT THE IRAN NUCLEAR AGREEMENT After careful review of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), analysis by experts pro and con, consultation with advocates from AIPAC, and prayerful consideration, I have concluded that the JCPOA is a strong, verifiable agreement which, if implemented, provides the best available option, short of military action, to prevent Iran from securing a nuclear weapon. Israel is our nation’s closest friend in the Middle East and one of our nation’s key allies. Our relationship is based on shared democratic values, mutual respect, and our Judeo-Christian heritage. I have witnessed first-hand Israel’s remarkable culture, innovation, entrepreneurship, and patriotism, especially when I traveled to the Holy Land. Drawing from my experience as a member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense, and the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans’ Affairs, I have an acute appreciation for the tremendous security challenges Israel and its people face as the nation seeks to survive and thrive in a very hostile neighborhood. Consequently, I have always supported funding for Israel’s missile defense programs; a peaceful resolution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict through direct and bilateral talks; and efforts such as the United States-Israel Strategic Partnership Act of 2013 to promote closer military, scientific, and economic ties between our two countries. Moreover, I have consistently supported international sanctions against Iran, not merely to inflict economic hardships on the government and people of Iran because of their anti-American, anti-Israeli, and anti-Semitic conduct, but to ultimately bring Iran to the negotiating table to deter its nuclear weapons program, which poses a real and grave threat to Israel, the United States, and the entire world. Because the threat of Iran acquiring a nuclear weapon is so ominous, our country was able to persuade a multitude of nations to join us, albeit reluctantly, in imposing these severe sanctions which have effectively brought Iran to the negotiation table regarding its nuclear weapons program. On July 14, 2015, negotiators from Iran, the United States, the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Russia, and China, along with the European Union, announced completion of a comprehensive nuclear agreement with Iran – the JCPOA. The JCPOA requires that the full extent of the Iran nuclear program will be under constant surveillance – 24 hours a day, seven days a week – by the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) for at least 15 years, which is the strongest nuclear non-proliferation monitoring agency anywhere in the world. Even after 15 years, Iran will be permanently obligated to follow all international Nuclear Non-Proliferation treaty requirements. Monitoring of the most sensitive parts of Iran’s nuclear program will continue indefinitely. The JCPOA affirms that under no circumstance will Iran ever seek, develop, or acquire any nuclear weapons. It also places severe restrictions on Iran’s uranium enrichment facilities, dismantles its plutonium production capabilities, and provides the IAEA access to all known and potential covert sites. If Iran complies with the JCPOA, international sanctions will be lifted and Iranian funds frozen in foreign banks will be released. However, if Iran violates the agreement, sanctions will snap back into place and all options – including the use of military force – will remain available to the United States, Israel, and our allies to prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon. These options will only be strengthened by the intelligence gathered from the IAEA monitoring and inspections, as well as by the vast array of U.S. intelligence assets across the region and the world. The JCPOA is not perfect. Neither side got everything they wanted. And a skeptical international community has deep concerns about Iran’s long and nefarious record of human rights violations, financing of terrorism, hostility to Israel and the United States, as well as its destabilizing role throughout the Middle East. Many Americans, Israelis, and other allies have serious doubts as to whether Iran will actually comply with the terms of the JCPOA, and believe Iran cannot be trusted. I share these concerns. But the JCPOA is not based on trust but on verification through constant monitoring. While intense inspections by the IAEA under the agreement are not sufficient to satisfy some critics, over 70 nuclear non-proliferation experts such as former Senators Sam Nunn and Richard Lugar; Generals Brent Scrowcroft and Colin Powell; 29 top U.S. scientists; 440 Rabbis; more than 60 former Israeli Security Officials; over 50 Christian leaders; and more than 100 former U.S. Ambassadors have endorsed the agreement publically. The United Nations Security Council voted unanimously to support the JCPOA as well. From a practical perspective, it makes little sense for the United States to walk away from the JCPOA given the broad diplomatic consensus and lack of reasonable alternatives to rolling back Iran’s nuclear program. Our negotiating partners, who had reluctantly agreed to sanctions in the first place, have said in no uncertain terms that a better deal with Iran under current circumstances cannot be found. In fact, if the U.S. were to now reject the agreement, the broad international support currently in favor of sanctions would disappear, the guarantee of nuclear inspections would vanish, and our nation’s diplomatic stature in the world would be greatly diminished. To be sure, it is vital that the JCPOA be backed by a strong commitment to ensuring that Iran remains in full compliance or face overwhelming military force. Current intelligence confirms that Iran is within months of developing nuclear weapons capability. Under no circumstances should Iran ever be allowed to pursue a nuclear weapon. Yet, before military action is pursued, I firmly believe that our nation must, as it has through the JCPOA, exhaust all of its diplomatic options and give peace a chance. In His Sermon on the Mount, Jesus Christ said: “Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called the children of God.” Waging peace is hard and requires far more than trust and good intentions. It requires verification and transparency, which this agreement more than provides. For these reasons, I will support the JCPOA and OPPOSE the passage of H. J. Res. 64, disapproving of the agreement transmitted to Congress by the President on July 19, 2015 relating to the nuclear program of Iran. ###
09.03.2015	COLUMBUS, GA – Yesterday, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop (D-GA), co-chair of the Congressional Military Family Caucus (CMFC) and Ranking Member of the U.S. House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies was joined by co-chair Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), staff from over twenty Congressional offices, officials from the Department of Defense and Fort Benning, representatives from military service organizations, and over 100 military family and service members at the annual Congressional Military Family Caucus Summit at the National Infantry Museum near Fort Benning in Columbus, Georgia. “Personal experiences in my family, my constituent’s families, and military families from across the United States have taught me that our service members and their families serve our nation and sacrifice together,” said Congressman Bishop. “Our military families are impacted in countless ways – seen and unseen – and we have an obligation to do right by them.” "It's my honor to participate again in this annual summit to hear from military families. Through these events we’ve addressed critical issues that uniquely challenge military families, including mental health, Wounded Warrior support, health care, military spouse employment, multiple deployments, and education,” said Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers. “As we work to create a military for the 21st Century, we need to also embrace forward-looking, technology-driven solutions to help support our military families—from making it easier to transfer medical records when families PCS to a new duty station to working to connect spouses with employment opportunities. I'd like to thank Congressman Bishop for his continued collaboration and leadership on these critical issues." “All too often, the tremendous hardships military families must endure, are endured in silence. But not today,” concluded Congressman Bishop. The Summit serves as a direct channel between the Caucus and military families. Held by the CMFC annually, the Summit works to connect military families with Members of Congress, the Department of Defense, and private sector groups to discuss the challenges and pressing issues impacting America’s servicemen and their families as well as offer resources. Led by three panels of experts, discussed subjects included healthcare, spousal employment, benefits, and transition out of the military. The CMFC is a bipartisan congressional caucus that educates elected officials, congressional staffers, senior military leaders and the public on a wide range of unique issues that affect military families. Currently, over 80 Democrats and Republicans are members of the CMFC. To view or download photos from today’s event from today’s event, please click here. To view today’s live-tweet conversation through #CMFCSummit, please click here. For coverage of the 2014 summit at Fairchild AFB in Spokane, Washington, please click here. For coverage of the 2013 summit at Fort Benning, Georgia, please click here. For coverage of the 2012 summit at Fort Benning, Georgia, please click here. For coverage of the 2011 summit at Fairchild AFB in Spokane, Washington, please click here. For more information about the Congressional Military Family Caucus, please click here. Below is the full text of Congressman Sanford D. Bishop’s prepared opening remarks at the Congressional Military Family Caucus Summit: Thank you all for joining us this morning at today’s Congressional Military Family Caucus Summit! To everyone visiting Columbus for the first time, welcome to our beautiful city! It is a real pleasure to be with those who make America great – the brave families of service men and women who admirably defend our nation and safeguard our liberties. In fact, I would like to personally thank the service members, military families, and veterans with us today. Our nation will forever be indebted to you for your service and countless selfless sacrifices. I am proud of the military families living at Fort Benning in Columbus, the Marine Corps Logistics Base in Albany, and the communities around Robins Air Force Base here in Georgia.These volunteers are a living embodiment of the eternal optimism we hold in our country. Truly, military families are the backbone of our military. Today, I am honored to be joined by my friend, colleague and Co-Chair of the Congressional Military Family Caucus, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers from Washington State’s Fifth Congressional District. Married to a Navy pilot retired after 26 years of service, Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers knows firsthand the sacrifices our military families make as their loved ones fight to defend our nation. I want to thank both Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers and Brian, her husband, for their respective service to our great nation. The Congressional Military Family Caucus Summit would not be possible without the assistance of the numerous contributions from today’s speakers, moderators, panelists, and support organizations. Your expertise will provide us with background on issues most important to the spouses, widows, and children of military service members stationed across the world. Also, 25 Congressional Offices have sent staff to directly gather information today to bring back to Washington. Finally, my staff and the staff of the National Infantry Museum have gone above and beyond to ensure today is a success. Thank you! Healthcare, education, jobs, housing, benefits, transition, mental health, and child care. Issues common to all Americans, but as we know, holding a unique set of circumstances for military families. All too often, the tremendous hardships military families must endure, are endured in silence. But not today. During the past five summits, feedback received was vital to our efforts educating elected officials, congressional staffers, senior military leaders, and the public on the wide range of issues that affect military families. Also, it provides our caucus feedback upon which to base policy solutions. And so I encourage you to speak your mind and share your story as it is your input that points us to where we need to go. As we continue to work through sequestration and constrained defense budgets, we must ensure that our obligations to military families are met. We cannot forget -- military service is about people. How we care for service members and their families determine the success of the most professional all volunteer force this world has even seen, now and into the future. For myself, Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers, and many of our colleagues in both the Congressional Military Family Caucus and Senate Military Family Caucus, the issues discussed today are important to us not just because of our constituencies, but due to our deeply personal connection as well. Experiences like my wife’s have taught me that our service members and their families serve and sacrifice together. These families are impacted in countless ways – seen and unseen – and we have an obligation to do right by them. Almost five years ago Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers and I founded this Caucus to honor the debt our nation holds for the sacrifices military families continue to make. Help us fulfill that promise. Again, we hope that you will actively participate in the breakout sessions and help us to work together, improve military families’ quality of life, and expand your opportunities. God Bless. ###
08.21.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement regarding the passing of Former Congressman Louis Stokes, the first African-American Member of Congress from Ohio: “I am heartbroken to learn of the passing of my mentor, friend, and colleague, Congressman Louis Stokes. Throughout the many years I have known him, I was blessed with his wise counsel and sage advice in my congressional career. I will always remember how he assisted me in my quest to get on the House Intelligence Committee and helped me see the need for diversity in the intelligence community. “Moreover, through his service on the House Appropriations Committee, Congressman Stokes effected change not just in Ohio, but throughout the country, and particularly in Georgia. With his help and guidance, the city of Columbus, Georgia was able to obtain federal funds to improve its water and sewer system. This led to the transformation of downtown Columbus, which came alive with the Columbus State University campus, the Chattahoochee RiverWalk, and the WhiteWater Express. “A fierce defender of social and economic justice, Congressman Stokes was an extraordinary Member of Congress and public servant. Through his unwavering dedication, strong values, and an avid pursuit of civil and human rights, Congressman Stokes made a tremendous impact in his community, in the United States Congress, and on our great nation. My heartfelt thoughts and prayers go out to his wife, Jay, his children, his grandchildren, and other family members and friends.” ###
08.21.2015	COLUMBUS, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement congratulating the graduates of the U.S. Army Ranger School at Fort Benning, Georgia: “I would like to extend my sincerest congratulations to all the brave men and women graduating from Ranger School today! This intensely rigorous course is designed to develop a special class of leaders trained to prevail in the most arduous combat conditions. I am proud to say that for the first time in history, two women have taken their place among this extraordinary rank of soldiers. “The Army imposes the highest of high standards on all Ranger candidates. Captain Kristen Griest and First Lieutenant Shaye Haver met these extreme standards not in spite of their gender, but because of their personal determination and perseverance to achieve their full potential, just like any other Ranger candidate. I am confident that every single one of today’s graduates will make significant contributions to helping the United States of America continue to be the most prepared and respected military force in the world.” Today, 96 students graduated from Ranger School, the Army’s most rigorous training course. The first gender-integrated course began on April 20, 2015 with 381 men and 19 women. In addition to training in woods, mountains, and swamplands with minimal food and little sleep, students had to undertake an intensive and grueling physical fitness test. Captain Kristen Griest and First Lieutenant Shaye Haver are the first female soldiers to graduate from the school to date. ###
08.19.2015	DONALSONVILLE, GA – On Tuesday evening, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) held a hydrilla focused Town Hall Meeting at the Seminole County Courthouse in Donalsonville, Georgia. Congressman Bishop was accompanied by Colonel Jon Chytka, Commander of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Mobile District. Well over 100 members of the public were in attendance. The purpose of the meeting was to get feedback from the public on the issue. “As everyone can plainly see, the ongoing problem of hydrilla and other invasive aquatic plants remains a danger to the natural ecology of Lake Seminole and Lake Walter F. George,” said Congressman Bishop. “In order to maintain and improve access to the lake for boaters, fisherman, and other recreational users, I believe we must do whatever is necessary to better manage the hydrilla infestation to allow full use of the lakes once again.” “I look forward to working with Congressman Bishop to address this important issue affecting residents and the recreating public at Lake Seminole,” said Colonel Chytka. Lake Seminole’s hydrilla infestation poses a serious danger to the lake’s aquatic inhabitants. The weed’s ability to multiply at alarmingly high speeds has enabled it to dominate the vegetation within the lake. As hydrilla grows, it gradually creates a thick, blanket-like cover near the water’s surface, which drastically impedes sunlight and oxygen from reaching the lake’s submerged plant life. The unfettered growth of hydrilla in Lake Seminole and Lake Walter F. George also raises economic concerns. The dense network of hydrilla that forms near the water’s surface significantly limits boat use and other forms of water recreation. Furthermore, it may lead to a decrease in property values of real-estate surrounding Lake Seminole as the recreational-related resources within the area are negatively impacted. ###
08.17.2015	PLAINS, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement regarding his friend and constituent, former President Jimmy Carter of Plains, Georgia: “President Carter has been a stalwart advocate of peace and democracy around the world, a tremendous servant leader, a personal friend and political mentor to me, and a source of pride for our communities in Southwest Georgia. People of faith around the world will be praying for a full recovery. We extend our best wishes and support to President Carter, Rosalynn, and the Carter family during this challenging time.” ###
08.17.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement regarding the passing of Julian Bond, civil rights advocate and former NAACP chairman: “I am deeply saddened to have lost a longtime friend and colleague, Julian Bond. I first met Julian when he was with the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee (SNCC). He later paved the way for me and others to serve in the Georgia General Assembly. I was blessed to have his sage counsel after I was elected to the Georgia House of Representatives while he was serving in the Georgia Senate. “Julian Bond spent most of his life standing. He stood for human and civil rights, stood against inequality and injustice, and stood out as a dedicated public servant in Georgia and throughout the nation. He will truly be missed but his great legacy will remain standing as a testament to the progress that has been made and that which is still to come.” ###
08.11.2015	CAMILLA, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) announced that he co-authored a peer-reviewed paper entitled “Georgia’s Poultry Industry and Its Impact on the Local Economy and Global Trade” recently published by the International Food and Agribusiness Management Review. “Georgia is our nation’s number one chicken and turkey producing state, with over $555 million of poultry exported annually,” said Congressman Bishop. “From supplying the neighborhood barbecue to providing jobs at home to strengthening our nation’s competitive edge in the world economy, it is important to underscore the significant impact of yet another important asset of America, the poultry growers and producers of Georgia.” The paper describes Georgia’s poultry industry and its impact on the local, regional, and national economy as well as global trade. As consumer and industry demand for poultry continue to rise, Georgia has emerged as the top producer of poultry in the country. The paper touches trends in Georgia’s broiler industry, Georgia’s role in the global broiler market, factors affecting Georgia broiler exports, and implications for Georgia’s agricultural sector and state economy. The International Food and Agribusiness Management Review (IFAMR) publishes high quality, peer reviewed, scholarly articles on topics relates to the practice of management in the food and agribusiness industry. The Review includes scholarly articles on business, public policy, law and education pertaining to the global food system. The Review also reflects agribusiness scholarship world-wide with over half of its Editorial Board, managing editors, and article submissions coming from outside of the United States. Click here to read “Georgia’s Poultry Industry and Its Impact on the Local Economy and Global Trade.” Congressman Bishop also produced a video to introduce the paper. Click here to view the video. ###
08.03.2015	Washington, D.C.—Today, U.S. Representatives Sanford Bishop (GA-02) and Reid Ribble (WI-08) led a bipartisan group of 154 Members of Congress in urging the federal government to consider sustainably managed forests as carbon neutral in forthcoming EPA regulations and all future policy rulemakings. “It is vitally important to Georgia and our nation that we continue to protect our broad energy portfolio and employ all types of resources, including biomass and other renewable sources of energy,” said Congressman Bishop (GA-02). “To that end, we must ensure oversight of the energy industry reflects an understanding that biomass utilization is a carbon neutral and economically viable process.” “Sustainable forest management has been documented many times over as a net positive for our environment, and as the number one paper-producing state in the nation, it is a cornerstone of both our economy and our landscape,” said Congressman Ribble (WI-08). “It is crucial that that the EPA and other federal agencies recognize this positive effect and not penalize states whose economies rely heavily on this sustainable practice in any future rulemakings.” In a letter to U. S. Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Gina McCarthy, Department of Energy Secretary Ernest Moniz and Department of Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack, the members say: The carbon neutrality of forest biomass has been recognized repeatedly by numerous studies, agencies, institutions, legislation, and rules around the world, and there has been no dispute about the carbon neutrality of biomass derived from residuals of forest products manufacturing and agriculture. Our constituents employed in the biomass supply chain deserve a federal policy that recognizes the clear benefits of forest bioenergy. We urge you to ensure that federal policies are consistent and reflect the carbon neutrality of these types of bioenergy. Under the EPA’s forthcoming Clean Power Plan, new regulations are challenging states to reduce carbon emissions from their existing infrastructure, and rules are expected for new power plants as well. Many states currently rely on renewable biomass, often a byproduct of forest management and pulp and paper production, as an important part of meeting their broader energy production goals. Representatives Ribble, Bishop, and a wide bipartisan group of Members are united in urging the Administration to honor the work states are doing in sustainable forest management and to continue to regard it as a carbon neutral activity. ###
07.31.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) spoke during the U.S. House of Representatives floor debate about the dire need to strengthen the Department of Veterans Affairs as well as return Congress to a responsible government funding process. The bill under debate, H.R. 3236, works to address a Department of Veterans Affairs $3.348 billion budget shortfall for veterans’ health care in Fiscal Year (FY) 2015. The measure would allow for the authorization of the $3.348 billion needed to address this shortfall to come from the “Choice Program” which is an emergency fund set up by Congress in 2014 to help ensure that Veterans can see a doctor in a timely manner. While the House-passed FY 2016 MilCon/VA appropriations bill adds $970 million for VA medical care advance appropriations within the FY 2015 bill, the amount still remains $330 million below the VA request – most likely leading to another budget shortfall in FY 2016. “This situation is a prime example of how the sequester caps, imposed by the Budget Control Act and locked in by the Republican budget, constrain our ability to deal with issues responsibly and in a timely manner,” said Congressman Bishop. “It is well past time we come to the table to break the cycle of irresponsible funding levels shortchanging our veterans’ health care.” Without this legislation, the VA could run out of money by September, potentially shuttering VA centers across the nation. Costs have exploded by more than 10% in the last year as a result of higher demand, while the budget increased by only 2.8%. Additionally, costs for treatments have increased. For example, due to new life-saving Hepatitis C medicine costing as much as $1,000 for a single pill, the VA’s $700 million FY 2015 budget for Hepatitis C medicine has already been exceeded with more than two months left in the fiscal year. “Today’s bill is only a band-aid, a temporary solution, over budget caps. To be clear, we cannot continue to govern in this fashion. If we continue to ignore the new reality of increased demand and higher costs, delivery of health care services to millions of currently enrolled veterans, and the large number of new veterans seeking care, will be devastated for the foreseeable future,” concluded Bishop. H.R. 3236 was approved by the House of Representatives by a vote of 385 to 34. To watch Congressman Bishop call for Congress to take the next step towards a more responsible government funding process, please click here. ###
07.22.2015	ALBANY, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) is proud to share that both Albany and Macon were selected as two of 27 participants in ConnectHOME, a nationwide U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development’s (HUD) Digital Opportunity Demonstration Program pilot initiative that will accelerate broadband adoption by children and families living in HUD-assisted housing. Albany and Macon were selected through a competitive process that took into account local commitment to expanding broadband opportunities in the community. “High-speed Internet is a necessity in today’s information-based economy,” said Congressman Bishop. “ConnectHOME will help low- and middle-income families access the information superhighway so that they can better compete for twenty-first century jobs.” ConnectHOME seeks to create a shared platform that brings together local governments, members of private industry, nonprofit organizations, and other interested entities that will produce locally-tailored solutions for bridging the digital divide. This new initiative with communities, the private sector, and federal government seeks to expand high speed broadband to more families across the country. Internet service providers, non-profits and the private sector will offer broadband access, technical training, digital literacy programs, and devices for residents in assisted housing units. Participating communities and stakeholders will be required to develop standards for measuring the effectiveness of the initiative and to report on their results. While HUD will not devote any federal funding towards this initiative, the Department has identified strategies that will provide our existing programs with greater flexibility to address barriers to broadband access. Click here for more information about the ConnectHOME Initiative. ###
07.16.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the nonpartisan National Parks Conservation Association (NPCA) awarded Congressman Sanford Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) the Friend of the National Parks Award for his long-time protection and enhancement of America’s national parks. “National parks are our heritage while also providing economic, cultural, and social benefits to all Americans.” said Congressman Sanford Bishop, Jr. “I will always be in support of that effort, and am honored to be recognized by the National Parks Conservation Association.” Earlier this year, Congressman Sanford Bishop (D-GA) and Congressman Austin Scott (R-GA) introduced H.R. 482, which, when passed, will expand the Ocmulgee National Monument from approximately 702 acres to over 2,800 acres, providing protection to additional archaeological resources, linking two currently noncontiguous areas, improving the site’s connection to Macon-Bibb County, and creating Georgia’s first National Historical Park. For more information regarding H.R. 482, please click here. “It’s an honor to recognize Congressman Bishop for supporting our national parks on the floor of the House during the 113th Congress,” said NPCA President and CEO Clark Bunting. “As the 114th Congress works on policies and funding levels impacting our national parks, I look forward to working with Congressman Bishop to ensure national parks have safe roadways, are well maintained, and have the resources they need to thrive for their upcoming centennial.” NPCA’s Friend of the National Parks Award was established in 1999 to track and publicize congressional members’ votes on significant park issues. Click here for more information about the National Parks Conservation Association (NPCA). ###
07.16.2015	MACON, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) is proud to share that the National Endowment for the Arts (NEA) has awarded the Macon Arts Alliance an Our Town grant of $134,370. The funds will support the Alliance’s efforts to establish an artist residency program and cultural plan for the Mill Hill neighborhood. The Our Town grant program supports creative projects that help transform communities into lively, beautiful, and resilient places with the arts at their core. “I am grateful to NEA for this opportunity extended to the Macon Arts Alliance,” said Congressman Bishop. “Macon-Bibb is filled with many historic neighborhoods and I am confident that this grant will be very beneficial to the beautification of the Mill Hill area.” “The Macon Arts Alliance demonstrates the best in creative community development and whose work will have a valuable impact on its community,” said Jane Chu, Chairwoman of the NEA. "Through Our Town funding, arts organizations continue to spark vitality that support neighborhoods and public spaces, enhancing a sense of place for residents and visitors alike." "The NEA's Our Town awards are some of its most competitive and ambitious. We're excited to have this award to support programming as a catalyst for the Mill Hill: East Macon Arts Village," said Jan Beeland, Executive Director of Macon Arts Alliance. "This is only the beginning of what we believe will be the next great neighborhood revitalization story of Macon." The Macon Arts Alliance will use the grant to support a two-year artist residency program in Mill Hill, hiring both local artists and nationally recognized, social practice artists to create projects in collaboration with neighborhood residents. The artist residency program will empower artists and neighbors to fight blight, identify and develop existing creative assets, and create a neighborhood cultural plan with a shared vision for the future. Click here for more information about the National Endowment for the Arts. ###
07.14.2015	FORT VALLEY, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) is proud to share that the National Science Foundation (NSF) has awarded Fort Valley State University (FVSU) a $399,049 grant to examine the effect of toxins or toxic chemicals on the environment and living organisms. The funds will be used to support toxicology research and instruction at FVSU. “I applaud the National Science Foundation for providing Fort Valley State University this wonderful opportunity for students to continue to connect and grow through science and research by bolstering the program’s undergraduate research training,” said Congressman Bishop. “We’re elated to receive such tremendous support from the National Science Foundation for our research initiatives at Fort Valley State,” said Dr. Jessica Bailey, Interim President of FVSU. “Our desire is to continue encouraging students to get engaged and excited about research and these funds will play a vital role towards reaching that goal." Specifically, FVSU will use the grant to improve and update the Biology and Chemistry curriculum through the inclusion of toxicology instruction and undergraduate research. It includes: 1) establishing curriculum for Principles of Toxicology and Investigations of toxicology; 2) establishing a core toxicology teaching laboratory suitable for implementing inquiry-based course instruction; 3) establishing undergraduate research opportunities in toxicology through institutional collaboration; and 4) enhancing FVSU faculty knowledge and research expertise in toxicology. ###
07.14.2015	WASHINGTON D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop Jr. (GA-02) issued the following statement regarding the agreement announced this morning between Iran and the P5+1 (the United States, United Kingdom, China, France, Russia, plus Germany) regarding Iran’s nuclear power and potential threat of nuclear weapons: “Even though an agreement has been reached regarding the Iranian nuclear program, it is vital that the United States Congress scrutinizes the deal between the P5+1 and Iran to ensure the U.S. and its allies' security interests are maintained for the future. We must remain especially vigilant by ensuring the agreement holds Iran to the highest standards of transparency and accountability. “The opportunity to improve our relationship with Iran could potentially lead to greater stability in a region torn apart by war and religious strife. Nevertheless, we must not be naïve. The prospect of peace and stability can only be realized if the world is assured Iran will not threaten its neighbors with nuclear aggression. “In the coming weeks, Congress will review the agreement closely to ensure that it will stand the test of time. It is vital that the international community has full access to Iranian military and research installations to ensure that Iran does not engage in illicit nuclear enrichment. Inspectors must be able to determine whether Iranian nuclear infrastructure has been dismantled so that its capacity to build a nuclear weapon is measured in years, not weeks. In addition, Iran must adhere to all United Nations Security Council Resolutions requiring detailed explanations of previous efforts to obtain nuclear weapons. “Thirty five years of hostility and mistrust against the United States, Israel, and its allies cannot simply be swept away by the signature of a pen in Vienna, Austria. It will take vigilance on our side to ensure that Iran keeps its word now and into the future.” For more information on the details of the deal, please click here. ###
07.13.2015	ALBANY, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) announced his office is seeking a Wounded Warrior Fellow to serve as a Veterans’ Advocate and Outreach Coordinator in his Albany, Georgia Congressional Office. Primary responsibilities of the position will include facilitating and coordinating responses to a wide range of requests received from military, veterans, and other stakeholders in the region. The position will assist veteran constituents navigate government agencies and aid Congressman Bishop and staff to stay updated on issues related to the VA, defense, and national security. “We have been fortunate to have Wounded Warriors work with us in the past, and so I am looking forward to participating in this wonderful program once again,” said Congressman Bishop “For those who relish the opportunity to participate in the legislative process and assist fellow veterans in Middle and Southwest Georgia firsthand, I encourage all those interested who meet the eligibility requirements to apply as soon as possible.” The Congressional Wounded Warrior Fellowship program is limited to veterans who have served on active duty since September 11, 2001, with less than 20 years of service and a minimum 30% disability rating from the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). To apply, please submit a resume, a copy of the last issued DD214 (page 4) and a letter from the VA indicating a 30% or greater rating (not necessary if medically retired) to housewoundedwarriors@mail.house.gov. Please do not send resumes directly to the Office of Congressman Sanford D. Bishop. The Congressional Wounded Warrior Fellowship program was established to create potential employment opportunities for wounded or disabled veterans within the House of Representatives. Those selected for the program will be employed by the Office of the Chief Administrative Officer and will be given the opportunity to work in Member, committee and leadership offices. If a fit is found, transition into full-time employment may ensue at the conclusion of the two year fellowship, but is not guaranteed. Interested veterans should visit https://cao.house.gov/job-title-veterans-advocate-and-outreach-coordinator for more information. Resumes will be reviewed until an applicant has been chosen for the fellowship. ###
07.09.2015	FORT BENNING, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop Jr. (GA-02), Ranking Member of the U.S. House of Representatives’ Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies, reacted to the United States Army’s decision to draw down forces from Fort Benning in compliance with the U.S. Army’s overall brigade reduction plan: “Our national security should not be held hostage by sequestration. Due to the Majority’s avoidable budget caps, the Army is being forced to reduce troop strength, training, and readiness. I believe it will adversely affect families and businesses around the Chattahoochee Valley. Congress must redouble its efforts to lift the budget caps and adequately fund all our nation’s strategic needs.” Background: The Army is continuing a process to reduce its total active end-strength from 570,000 to 450,000 by Fiscal Year (FY) 2017 as part of the military’s overall budget reduction. As part of the drawdown to 450,000, the Army is reducing its active component Brigade Combat Teams (BCTs) from 45 to 30 BCTs by FY 2017. BCTs at Fort Benning will be drawn down from 12,655 soldiers to 9,040 soldiers, a net reduction of 3,402 soldiers (29% of Fort Benning’s force), after 3rd Brigade Combat Team, 3rd Infantry Division will be converted to a maneuver battalion task force. ###
07.02.2015	COLUMBUS, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Ranking Member of the U.S. House of Representatives Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, and the Honorable Robert McDonald, Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), held a veterans-focused town hall meeting at the National Infantry Museum and Soldier Center in Columbus, Georgia while on tour through Middle Georgia. “Our appreciation of our veterans should be expressed not just with words, but also with deeds,” said Congressman Bishop “And so, as Congress wrestles with budgetary issues, we want to hear your concerns in order to determine what we need to do to ensure all veterans get the timely care, benefits, and consideration they have earned through their service to our nation.” "It is important to hear directly from veterans and employees as we go through the largest restructuring in VA's history," said Secretary McDonald. "More veterans are using VA across the nation including here in Georgia. We have made real progress by completing more appointments, extending clinic hours and hiring thousands of clinicians. But, we still have more to do and that includes improving our customer service." Today, Congressman Bishop and Secretary McDonald held a public town hall meeting with over 300 veterans in attendance to gather feedback on implemented improvements to service in Middle Georgia. On Wednesday, the Congressman and the Secretary held a town hall meeting at Central Georgia Technical College with over 200 in attendance, met with staff at a VA clinic in Macon and a VA clinic in Columbus, as well as toured Martin Army Community Hospital and a joint Department of Defense / VA care facility at Fort Benning. In addition to providing oversight of the VA as the management culture within the Department shifts, Congressman Bishop has been working to improve VA service and overall quality of life for our military veterans. The intent of the tour is to improve VA transparency and highlight the District-specific needs of veterans in Middle and Southwest Georgia. To view and download photos of this week’s tour, please click here. ###
07.01.2015	MACON, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Ranking Member of the U.S. House of Representatives Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, and the Honorable Robert McDonald, Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), held a veterans-focused town hall meeting at Central Georgia Technical College in Macon, Georgia while on tour through Middle Georgia. “Our appreciation of our veterans should be expressed not just with words, but also with deeds,” said Congressman Bishop “And so, as Congress wrestles with budgetary issues, we want to hear your concerns in order to determine what we need to do to ensure all veterans get the timely care, benefits, and consideration they have earned through their service to our nation.” "It is important to hear directly from veterans and employees as we go through the largest restructuring in VA's history," said Secretary McDonald. "More veterans are using VA across the nation including here in Georgia. We have made real progress by completing more appointments, extending clinic hours and hiring thousands of clinicians. But, we still have more to do and that includes improving our customer service." Throughout the day, Congressman Bishop and Secretary McDonald met with staff at a VA clinic in Macon and a VA clinic in Columbus as well as toured Martin Army Community Hospital and a joint Department of Defense / VA care facility at Fort Benning to gather feedback on implemented improvements to service in Middle Georgia. Tomorrow, the Congressman and the Secretary will be holding a public town hall meeting at the National Infantry Museum and Soldier Center in Columbus, Georgia at 7:30 AM. In addition to providing oversight of the VA as the management culture within the Department shifts, Congressman Bishop has been working to improve VA service and overall quality of life for our military veterans. The intent of the tour is to improve VA transparency and highlight the District-specific needs of veterans in Middle and Southwest Georgia. To view and download photos of today’s tour, please click here. ###
06.26.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) issued the following statement after the Supreme Court ruled that the Constitution guarantees a right to same-sex marriage: “Over time, I have found that gay and lesbian couples who are truly committed to each other want similar things from marriage as the rest of us—the simple freedom to build a life together based on love and commitment. If a couple is willing to stand up in front of friends, family, and God to make a lifetime promise of fidelity to each other, it’s not for us to deny them that opportunity. As today’s decision does not affect churches’ first amendment rights and equalizes marriage rights for all Americans, I am in support of today’s decision.” ###
06.25.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) welcomed the United States Supreme Court’s King vs Burwell decision to uphold the Affordable Care Act (ACA) by ensuring all eligible Americans, regardless of where they live, have the access to premium tax credits to afford life-saving health care: “Millions of Americans now have access to affordable health care thanks to the Affordable Care Act, so the U.S. Supreme Court decision over King vs Burwell is truly a victory for common sense and for all American families,” said Congressman Bishop. “Now that the Supreme Court has ruled, I am hopeful that the wasteful partisan battles over the ACA will end and our nation can move forward on finding commonsense ways to strengthen the law, expand Medicaid coverage of low-income Georgians, and improve the quality of health care for all.” The tax credits targeted in the Supreme Court case have helped millions of Americans across the nation get health insurance coverage and lower their premiums by an average of 72 percent in the Federal health insurance marketplaces: Access for Georgians: As of March 31, 2015, 452,815 Georgians were enrolled in the health insurance marketplace, 91.1% (412,385) of whom took advantage of the Advanced Premium Tax Credit. Decline in the uninsured: After five years of the Affordable Care Act, more than 16 million Americans have gained coverage and the nation’s uninsured rate now stands at its lowest level ever – at 11.9 percent. Historically slow growth in health care prices: Health care prices are rising at a slower pace than at any time in the past 50 years. No more discrimination against pre-existing conditions: Up to 129 million Americans who could have otherwise been denied coverage or charged higher premiums now have access to affordable coverage. Marketplace enrollment is strong: As of March 31, 10.2 million people were enrolled in a Health Insurance Marketplace plan for 2015 coverage. Coverage is affordable: About 85 percent of people who enrolled in the Marketplace in 2015 are getting tax credits to make the coverage more affordable. Among consumers who selected plans in the 37 HealthCare.gov states, 8 in 10 could choose a plan with a premium of $100 or less after tax credits. Young adults getting covered: 5.7 million young adults ages 19-25 have gained coverage since 2010, improving access to care and benefiting our economy. These gains have cut the uninsured rate among young adults in this age group by more than 40 percent. Medicaid expansion: Over 12.3 million additional Americans were covered under Medicaid and the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) in March 2015 compared to before the ACA open enrollment started. Quality of health care is improving: As estimated 50,000 fewer patients died in hospitals and approximately $12 billion in health care costs were saved as a result of a reduction in hospital-acquired conditions from 2010 to 2013. ###
06.19.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement regarding the recent shooting at Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston, South Carolina: “Simply put—this horrific massacre goes beyond the realm of reason and comprehension. Once again, a racially charged and horribly violent act has reopened a deep tear in the fabric of our society. As Dr. King so aptly put it; ‘We must learn to live together as brothers and sisters or we are going to perish together as fools.’ Truly, we must work together to ensure that these horrific occurrences of violence become a thing of the past in our great country. My heart and prayers go out to the families, the communities, and millions in our nation grappling with the impact of racism day in and day out. I ask that you to continue to pray for our brothers and sisters in Charleston as we all strive to heal from the wounds induced by this most recent atrocity.” ###
06.16.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) and Rep. Austin Scott (GA-08) testified in front of the United States House of Representative’s Committee on Natural Resources’ Subcommittee on Federal Lands regarding H.R. 482, the Ocmulgee Mounds National Historic Park Boundary Revision Act of 2015. Their bipartisan bill would expand the boundaries of the Ocmulgee National Monument from approximately 700 acres to over 2,800 acres; change the name from “Ocmulgee National Monument” to “Ocmulgee Mounds National Historical Park” in order to increase name recognition and draw additional visitors; and authorize a resources study to expand the park even further and include additional opportunities for hunting, camping, fishing, and other recreational activities. “Our bill would strengthen the current Ocmulgee National Monument and bolster the economy and cultural life of Georgia and beyond,” said Congressman Sanford Bishop. “There are few if any historic sites in the United States that have evidence of continuous human habitation from so long ago, when the first nomadic people came to North America to hunt Ice Age mammals and began to settle the Macon Plateau. It is what makes the Ocmulgee National Monument so unique.” “By revising the boundaries of the Ocmulgee National Monument to create Georgia’s first National Historical Park, we continue to preserve our state’s unique and rich history,” said Congressman Austin Scott. “This legislation will not only create a lasting memorial for future generations, but it will also provide economic and cultural benefits to the Middle Georgia.” Due to its history and archaeological importance, the future Ocmulgee Mounds National Historical Park deserves to be preserved as a lasting memorial to how individuals relate to the land and other natural resources. Its expansion and improvement would be a fitting tribute to the Native Americans who first came to this historical site during the Paleo-Indian period. The expanded park also will generate tourist revenue for Macon, Georgia and the surrounding areas while educating visitors on the little known fact that different cultures have occupied this land for thousands of years. The mounds and earth-lodges that the Mississippians built to serve as formal council chambers when they arrived in Macon around 900 A.D. remain intact for all to see and appreciate. Ocmulgee National Monument was originally authorized by Congress in 1934 to protect a fraction of the lands commonly known as the 'Old Ocmulgee Fields,' upon which certain Indian mounds of great historical importance are located. The legislation envisioned a large park of approximately 2,000 acres but local citizens could finance the acquisition of only 678 acres by the time it opened in 1936. Today, the Ocmulgee National Monument contains 702 acres. The role of the Ocmulgee National Monument is to "present a story of many stages of prehistoric cultural development, emphasizing the influences of agriculture, the Mound Builder period, and the relationship of these various cultures to each other and to life today." Property also would be acquired only from willing donors or sellers, subject to the availability of funding. On October 10, 2014, the measure was endorsed by the Inter-Tribal Council of the Five Civilized Tribes (Cherokee, Chickasaw, Choctaw, Muscogee [Creek], and Seminole Nations), representing over 500,000 Indian people throughout the United States. To view the resolution of endorsement, please click here. ###
06.12.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies, took to the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives to urge his colleagues to support the repeal of the Country-of-Origin Labeling (COOL) law by approving H.R. 2393, the Country-of-Origin Labeling Amendments Act of 2015. “If Congress fails to repeal this harmful government mandate, Canada and Mexico have made clear that they will retaliate against a range of U.S. products within a matter of months by imposing onerous tariffs resulting in higher costs and lost market share for U.S. producers – up to $3.5 billion a year. A hit of that magnitude could be devastating to the U.S. beef, pork, and chicken industries,” said Congressman Bishop. To view a video of Congressman Bishop’s full remarks on the floor, please click here. Since its enactment in 2002, the COOL labeling law has led to tensions between the United States, Canada and Mexico. Canada and Mexico argue that COOL has hurt their livestock industries and have taken the U.S. to the World Trade Organization (WTO), which has ruled against the United States on four separate occasions. Canada and Mexico now can request authorization to retaliate against the U.S. in order to repair the damages they claim the COOL law has caused to their economies. H.R. 2393 was approved by a vote of 244 to 187 and now goes to the Senate for consideration. Congressman Bishop is one of the original cosponsors of this bill. ###
06.12.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Member of the House Appropriations Committee, is pleased to announce the Fiscal Year (FY) 2016 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies (THUD) Appropriations Act encourages the exploration of passenger rail opportunities throughout Middle and Southwest Georgia, opening the door to rail lines between Macon and Atlanta as well as Columbus and Atlanta. “The possibility of passenger rail lines to Macon and Columbus present many exciting business prospects and transportation opportunities for many Georgians,” said Congressman Bishop. “Not only would the initiative strengthen our state’s economy and create jobs, but also broaden regional access to our wonderful communities in Middle and Southwest Georgia!” “To meet our transportation needs now and in the very near future, Georgia needs to be planning today for passenger rail, and I want to thank Congressman Bishop for his leadership and vision of an alternate way to connect our cities and states,” said Robert Reichert, Mayor of Macon-Bibb County. “We cannot continue to support only wider and wider roads as people move closer to the urban cores and are seeking ways to travel other than their cars. Transit and intercity passenger rail options will determine our future.” "We are thankful Congressman Bishop sees the economic development potential of intercity rail. We applaud his leadership on this important issue for our transportation future," said Teresa Tomlinson, Mayor of Columbus. “NewTown Macon applauds Congressman Bishop for continuing to plan for comprehensive transportation to handle Georgia's growth, especially rail,” said Josh Rogers, President and CEO of NewTown Macon. Congressman Bishop is responsible for specific language within the government spending bill urging the Federal Railroad Association to engage stakeholders in the Southeastern region of the United States to develop a multi-state planning process for improving the intercity passenger rail network. As a result, this language encourages the Georgia Department of Transportation to pursue the option of developing an inter-city commuter and passenger rail between Atlanta and cities in Middle and Southwest Georgia. In total, the bill includes $17.2 billion in discretionary appropriations for the Department of Transportation for Fiscal Year 2016. This amount is $1 billion below the Fiscal Year 2015 enacted level and $6.8 billion below the President’s request. Congressman Bishop ultimately did not vote in favor of the THUD bill, as the funding level within the bill shortchanges the effort to renew America’s aging transportation infrastructure. The bill was approved Wednesday night by the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 216 to 210 and now goes to the Senate for consideration. For more information on funding levels and key provisions in the FY 2016 Transportation and HUD Appropriations Bill, please click here. ###
06.12.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the follow statement regarding his vote to deny the President “Fast-Track” authority to negotiate international trade agreements: “Congress must have a meaningful role throughout the negotiating and approval process of any trade agreement,” said Congressman Bishop. “These agreements have a significant impact on many sectors of the nation’s economy. It is vital that Congress’ voice is heard loud and clear to ensure that any final trade pact protects workers rights, the environment, and jobs.” “As a long-time proponent of the separation of governmental powers, I wholeheartedly believe that the Legislative Branch should not cede fast-tracking authority over trade negotiations to the Executive Branch,” concluded Bishop. “Voting against fast-track authority will not derail negotiations with our partners across the Pacific, but instead allow Congress to provide metered and thoughtful insight on one of the most important trade deals of our time.” The “Fast-Track” trade authority was approved by the U.S. House of Representatives today by a vote of 219 to 211. Legislation implementing international trade agreements would be subject to a straight up-or-down vote in Conges, and no amendments would be permitted. The legislation passed by the House today differs from the fast-track measure approved by the U.S. Senate on May 22, 2015. The Senate bill included fast-track negotiating authority as well as an extension of Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA), which provides a number of benefits and re-employment services to the U.S. workers harmed by foreign trade. The House had a separate vote on TAA, which was defeated 126 to 302. Consequentially, the fast-track bill will only make it to the President’s desk if the U.S. Senate approves the measure approved by the House today. For more information on TAA and TPA, please click here. ###
05.22.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement regarding the upcoming Memorial Day on Monday, May 25, 2015: “On this Memorial Day, we come together to remember and pay respect to the men and women – our husbands and wives, our mothers and fathers, our sons and daughters – that made the ultimate sacrifice and demonstrated true dedication and selflessness by living and dying for our country. We owe these patriots a debt we can never repay. Regardless of where you spend your Memorial Day – at the office, church, or at home with your family – we must remember to keep our fallen heroes in our hearts and in our minds. Truly, without the noble sacrifice of our soldiers, sailors, airmen, Marines, and Coast Guardsmen, our nation would not be the great country it is today.” ###
05.21.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies, gave his congratulations to Mr. William Brim and Dr. Ivery Clifton who have been appointed to the Georgia State Farm Service Agency (FSA) Committee: “I am delighted to congratulate Mr. Bill Brim and Dr. Ivery Clifton on their appointments to the Georgia Farm Service Agency! Bill Brim exhibits a passion for Georgia’s agriculture, as well as a wealth of knowledge and experience which will serve the state’s farmers well at the State Committee. Dr. Ivery Clifton has unparalleled expertise in the business of agriculture by virtue of his extensive educational, teaching, and practical experiences in Agriculture and brings phenomenal knowledge and wisdom to the Committee. Both of these individuals will undoubtedly help Georgia’s farmers access the services of FSA so they can continue producing the highest quality, safest, most abundant and affordable food and fiber in the world.” ###
05.20.2015	ALBANY, GA— As a result of the drought beginning on August 19, 2014, the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) has announced small businesses, small agricultural cooperatives, small aquaculture businesses, and most private nonprofit organizations within the affected areas of the 2nd Congressional District of Georgia that June 15, 2015 is the filing deadline for federal economic injury disaster loans. The working capital disaster loans are can be up to $2 million with interest rates of 4 percent for eligible small businesses and 2.625 percent for non-profit organizations, and terms up to 30 years. The low-interest disaster loans are available for the following Georgia counties: Baker, Brooks, Calhoun, Colquitt, Cook, Decatur, Dougherty, Early, Grady, Miller, Mitchell, Seminole, Thomas, Tift, and Worth counties. The loans are intended to pay fixed debts, payroll, accounts payable, and other expenses that could have been paid had the disaster not occurred. To be considered for this assistance, eligible entities need to apply by the deadline. To learn more about the application process for FSA disaster assistance loans, please click here and here. ###
05.15.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) opposed the passage of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2016. “The budget caps, which Congress refuses to change, will be damaging to our national security. Today, the rubber meets the road,” said Congressman Bishop. “While the NDAA has never been perfect, the version offered by the Majority shortchanges our service members and the safety of our nation, effectively rejecting the opportunity to meet the challenges of our time, improve how our government allocates taxpayer resources, invest in the American people, and provide critical long-term certainty for our armed forces.” But instead of giving our military and our budget certainty, Republicans are asking Congress to vote for a blatant, short-term, and irresponsible accounting gimmick amounting to tens of billions of dollars. As Defense Secretary Ash Carter testified last week, Republicans’ approach is “clearly a road to nowhere,” “managerially unsound,” and “unfairly dispiriting to our force.” Based on the Republican Budget, the bill allocates $38 billion to the overseas contingency operations (OCO) account to pay for base budget requirements, using this gimmick to claim to be complying with the Sequester Cap on Defense This bill is based on the Republican Budget, adding $38 billion to OCO to pay for base budget requirements, using this gimmick to claim to be complying with the sequester cap on defense. The effect of the Republican Budget is to lift the sequester on defense (using the gimmick of OCO), while keeping in place the sequester on non-defense. Specifically, the bill authorizes $496 billion in discretionary funding for the base budget for the Department of Defense and $19 billion in discretionary spending for the defense-related activities of the Department of Energy in FY 2016 – totaling $515 billion. However, the bill also authorizes $89.2 billion for Overseas Contingency Operations (OCO) funding in FY 2016, which is $38.3 billion more than the President’s OCO request. The bill identifies the difference of $38.3 billion in discretionary budget authority in support of base budget requirements. The total funding of $604.2 billion in discretionary spending for defense in the bill is equal to the President’s request. The White House has promised a veto on the NDAA if passed with irresponsible levels of funding for our military. A number of human rights, civil liberties, national security, and religious organizations have also urged Congress to vote no on the current NDAA bill and pass a more responsible budget for our armed forces. Those groups include: American Civil Liberties Union; Amnesty International USA; Appeal for Justice; Bill of Rights Defense Committee; The Center for Victims of Torture; The Constitution Project; Council on American-Islamic Relations; Defending Dissent Foundation; Friends Committee on National Legislation; Human Rights First; Human Rights Watch; National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers; National Religious Campaign Against Torture; National Security Network; Reprieve; Win Without War. BACKGROUND Provisions Regarding Our Troops and Their Families Gives the Military a Pay Raise Supports the current law on military basic pay for FY 2016, which equates to a 2.3 percent increase and does not include any of the DOD proposals for decreases in basic allowance for housing. Authorizes an extension of a wide array of bonuses and special and incentive pays for our men and women in uniform. Modernization of the Military Retirement System Overhauls the military retirement system to blend the current all-or-nothing annuity benefit with a matching Thrift Savings Plan (TSP), making it more reflective of a civilian 401(k) plan and offering financial benefits to individuals who do not serve at least 20 years in uniform. Under current rules, soldiers must serve at least 20 years to qualify for a pension. Delays implementation of the reform until October 2017 to allow the Armed Services Committee to hear from the Department of Defense on a plan to implement and receive any necessary legislative language corrections. End Strength Authorizes the end strength for Active Duty personnel of the Armed Forces at the end of FY 2016 at 475,000 for the Army, 329,200 for the Navy, 184,000 for the Marine Corps, and 320,715 for the Air Force. Provisions on Guantanamo Extends for another year the ban on the Department of Defense transferring any Guantanamo detainee into the United States. Extends for another year the ban on constructing facilities for Guantanamo detainees in the United States. Repeals the current statutory authority to transfer Guantanamo detainees to the custody or control of a foreign country, and replaces it with a provision that would prohibit the use of DOD funds to make such transfers through calendar year 2016, unless the Secretary of Defense certifies to Congress that numerous conditions have been satisfied, including measures to prevent re-engagement in terrorist activity and information-sharing arrangements with host countries. Prohibits transfers to any country in which a previously transferred Guantanamo detainee was confirmed to have re-engaged. Provisions on Sexual Assault in the Military Standardizes the training and timeframe of the training for Special Victim’s Counsel, establishes performance measures and sets minimum experience levels of Special Victim’s Counsel and provides Special Victim’s Counsel services to civilian employees of the Department of Defense who are victims of an alleged sex-related offense. Requires a strategy and policy to prevent retaliation against service members who report or intervene on behalf of the victim in instances of sexual assault and a plan to improve sexual assault prevention and response when the victim is a male member of the Armed Forces. Provisions on Iraq and Syria Authorizes $600 million for the Syria Train and Equip effort and $715 million for the Iraq Train and Equip effort. The bill requires that 25 percent of the Iraq Train and Equip assistance be provided to the Kurds and Sunnis. Further, it requires the Administration to assess progress towards political reconciliation in Iraq and, if they cannot assess adequate progress, would substantially decrease assistance provided to the Government of Iraq and increase aid provided directly to the Kurds and Sunnis. Provisions on Ukraine Authorizes $200 million for a Train and Equip effort in Ukraine and specifically allows for the disbursement of lethal equipment of a defensive nature. Provisions on European Reassurance Initiative Authorizes a total of $789 million for the European Reassurance Initiative, mainly to support U.S. deployments and training in Eastern Europe to reassure NATO allies and deter Russia. Provisions on Afghanistan Authorizes a total of $4.1 billion for the Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF), $338 million above the President’s request, to maintain a force level of 352,000 in the ANSF. Provisions on Jordan Allows for the reimbursement of up to $300 million to the Jordanians for expenses for efforts to control their border. The bill also authorizes $300 million for the enhancement of Jordanian military capability and an additional $16.5 million for Jordanian operations. Provisions on Acquisition Reform Includes the provisions of a bill introduced by HASC Chairman Mac Thornberry and Ranking Democrat Adam Smith that is designed to reform some parts of DOD’s acquisition reform system. Provisions on Space Allows the use of Russian RD-180 engines that were fully paid for or on contract before the Russian invasion of Crimea. Supports competition for reliable and affordable space launches for national security missions. Provisions on Missile Defense Authorizes approximately $10 billion for missile defense programs. Maintains authorizations for the continued deployment of a national missile defense system based in Alaska and California. Authorizes funding for missile defense sites in Romania and Poland. Authorizes funds for planning and design of a new East Coast interceptor facility, which the Pentagon has not requested. Mandates proof of concept for space-based interceptors. Supports Israeli missile defense by adding over $315 million above the President’s request. Provisions on Nuclear Weapons Adds $238 million to nuclear weapons funding above the $8.85 billion budget request. Requires quarterly notifications on Russian violation of intermediate Nuclear Forces (INF) Treaty, and adds $25 million to begin development of military responses to counter Russia’s violation of this treaty. Prohibits the dismantlement of nuclear weapons retired after 2009, and prohibits the dismantlement of all W84 warheads. Restricts the number of personnel at the National Nuclear Security Administration. Provisions on Nuclear Non-Proliferation Requires the Director of Naval Reactors to submit a plan for developing naval reactor fuel using low-enriched uranium (LEU), rather than highly-enriched uranium (HEU) and authorizes $5 million to start initial development and testing. Includes a permanent prohibition on funding for fixed portal monitors that detect radiological and nuclear weapons-usable materials at major border crossings and ports in foreign countries. Restricts certain nuclear verification and detection technology R&D. Provisions on Cyber Fully resources U.S. Cyber Command programs and activities. Full resources all Military Service cyber programs. Directs a review of Department of Defense cyber support to civil authorities. Directs the identification and assessment of cyber vulnerabilities on legacy weapons systems and mission systems. Provisions on Special Operations, Counter-Terrorism, & Unconventional Warfare Fully resources U.S. Special Operations Command activities and programs. Makes permanent the authorization for the NATO Special Operations Headquarters. Extends family support program authority for Special Operations Forces and their families. Increases congressional oversight of sensitive operations. Increases authority that allows U.S. Special Forces to partner with surrogate or indigenous forces. Makes permanent authorities to provide rewards to individuals providing information or non-lethal counterterrorism assistance. Directs development of a strategy to counter Unconventional Weapon threats. Provides new pilot program authorities to counter enemy propaganda efforts. Provisions on Countering Weapons of Mass Destruction Fully funds and authorizes activities for the Defense Threat Reduction Agency. Extends an authority to engage with foreign countries for incidents involving weapons of mass destruction. Directs the GAO to conduct a review of assistance to state and local first responders during chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear, and explosives incidents. Provisions on Aircraft Authorizes $18.6 billion for Navy aircraft and $16.0 billion for Air Force planes. Among its provisions, the bill: Prohibits the retirement of A-10 Warthog aircraft as proposed by the Air Force. Authorizes $682 million in unrequested funds to keep the aircraft operating. Authorizes $11.8 billion for continued development and procurement of 63 F35 aircraft, including funds for six unrequested aircraft. Authorizes $3 billion for 16 Poseidon aircraft, a Boeing 737 commercial derivative that is the Navy’s next-generation, maritime, anti-surface warfare surveillance aircraft. Authorizes $2.7 billion in procurement and development funds for KC-46 aerial refueling tankers for the Air Force. Authorizes $1.2 billion in unrequested funds for 12 F/A-18 E/F Super Hornet aircraft, the Navy’s principal fighter plane. Authorizes $1.4 billion for 19 V-22 Osprey aircraft for the Marine Corps. Authorizes $1.3 billion for 64 AH-64 Apache helicopters for the Army and additional funding for UH-60M Blackhawks for the Army National Guard. Provisions on Shipbuilding Authorizes $16.3 billion for major Navy vessels, $327 million (2%) less than requested. Among its provisions, the bill: Authorizes $5.3 billion for construction and long-lead components for the next boats in the Virginia class of new attack submarines. Authorizes $678 million for refueling complex overhaul operations for the USS George Washington nuclear-powered aircraft carrier. The Navy had previously suggested that the carrier would be taken out of service because of budget reductions. The measure also authorizes $2.5 billion for construction of the next class of carrier. Authorizes $1.4 billion for three Littoral (coastal) Combat Ships, a small, specialized variant of the DDG family of future surface-combat ships. Authorizes $3.2 billion for the next two DDG-51 Destroyers, equal to the request. Prohibits the use of funds for the inactivation or storage of Ticonderoga-class cruisers or dock landing ships in FY 2016. The Navy has sought to take 11 cruisers out of service to modernize them. Energy-Related Provisions Prohibits the Department of Defense from making bulk purchases of drop-in fuel for operational purposes, unless the cost of that drop-in fuel is cost-competitive with traditional fuel. Exempts DOD from Section 526 of the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007, which prevents DOD and other federal agencies from purchasing fuels with higher lifecycle emissions than that of conventional petroleum fuels. Prohibits DOD from awarding contracts for bio-fuel refineries. Other Provisions Prohibits the Department of Defense from conducting an additional round of Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC). Prevents the greater sage grouse bird from being listed as endangered or threatened under the Endangered Species Act for 10 years. Administration’s Position The Administration has issued a veto threat on the bill. In the SAP, the Administration indicates that it objects to numerous provisions in the bill. In the SAP, the Administration states, “The President has been very clear about the core principle that he will not support a budget that locks in sequestration, and he will not fix defense without fixing non-defense spending. … The use of OCO funding to circumvent budget caps in defense spending also ignores the long-term connection between national security and economic security.” In the SAP, the Administration also states, “Further, the bill fails to adopt many of the needed force structure and weapons system reforms included in the President’s Budget… The President’s defense strategy depends on investing every dollar where it will have the greatest effect, which the Administration’s FY 2016 proposals will accomplish through critical reforms that divest unneeded force structure, slow growth in compensation, and reduce wasteful overhead. The Committee’s changes would constrain the ability of DOD to align military capability and force structure with the President’s defense strategy and to reduce unneeded costs.” The House approved its version of the FY 2016 National Defense Authorization Act by a vote of 269 to 151. The bill now goes to the U.S. Senate for consideration. For a full summary of the bill’s provision, please click here. ###
05.07.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Member of the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement after the full Appropriations Committee approved its Fiscal Year (FY) 2016 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill. The government spending bill now goes to the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives for its consideration. “Provisions in the bill support various construction efforts in Georgia including just over $47 million for the Savannah Harbor, common sense solutions to potential issues with the conservation of energy in Georgia, and reinforcement of industries dependant on imports and exports,” said Congressman Bishop. “Nationally, the bill prioritizes funding for nuclear security, environmental cleanup activities, energy research, and the Army Corps of Engineers. These provisions will positively affect public safety, job creation, and the economy as a whole.” A summary of the subcommittee draft of the fiscal year 2016 Energy and Water Appropriations bill follows: BACKGROUND & BILL HIGHLIGHTS: The bill totals $35.4 billion – $1.2 billion above the Fiscal Year 2015 enacted level and $633 million below the President’s request. The bill delivers strong support for our national security, providing substantial increases for nuclear weapons programs above fiscal year 2015. The bill also protects funding for critical national and regional waterways – which handle commerce valued at more than $1.7 trillion annually – through the Army Corps of Engineers, and programs that encourage energy independence and economic competitiveness. To meet these needs, the legislation contains targeted reductions to lower-priority or unnecessary programs. Georgia – The bill provides $47.034 million for the Savannah Harbor; $21.050 million for the Savannah Harbor expansion (SHEP), $17.321 million for operations and maintenance, and $8.663 million for disposal areas. The bill also provides $1.525 million to the Apalachicola, Chattahoochee, Flint Rivers and $12.141 million to Buford Dam and Lake Lanier for expenses necessary for the operation, maintenance, and care of existing rivers and dams. Nuclear Security – The bill provides a total of $12.3 billion for DOE’s nuclear weapons security programs, including Weapons Activities, Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation, and Naval Reactors. This is a $922 million increase above the fiscal year 2015 level. This critical national defense funding will allow the U.S. to uphold its nuclear deterrence posture and prepare for current and future nuclear threats by maintaining the safety and readiness of our nuclear stockpile. This includes: $8.7 billion for Weapons Activities – $526 million above the fiscal year 2015 enacted level; $1.3 billion for Naval Nuclear Reactors – $86 million above the fiscal year 2015 enacted level; and $1.9 billion for Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation – $291 million above the fiscal year 2015 enacted level. Army Corps of Engineers – The Army Corps of Engineers is funded at $5.6 billion, an increase of $142 million above the fiscal year 2015 enacted level and $865 million above the President’s budget request. The bill focuses funding on activities that will have an immediate impact on public safety, job creation, and the economy, including those that help ensure our waterways stay open for business. For example, the bill provides: $2.4 billion for navigation projects and studies, including $1.178 billion in funding from the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund and full use of estimated annual revenues from the Inland Waterways Trust Fund, to help advance American competitiveness and export ability; and $1.6 billion to support public health and safety by funding flood and storm damage reduction activities – including $310 million for the most critical dam safety improvements. Environmental Cleanup – Included in the legislation is $5.9 billion for environmental management activities, $39 million above the fiscal year 2015 enacted level. This includes; $5.1 billion for Defense Environmental Cleanup to safely clean sites contaminated by previous nuclear weapons production, as well as additional funding for various other non-defense related nuclear sites. Energy Programs – Funding for energy programs within DOE is $10.3 billion – an increase of $64 million above the fiscal year 2015 enacted level and $1.3 billion below the President's request. Within this total, the bill prioritizes and increases funding for energy programs that encourage U.S. economic competitiveness and that help advance the nation’s goal of an “all-of-the-above” solution to energy independence. $605 million – an increase of $34 million above the fiscal year 2015 enacted level – for research and development to advance coal, natural gas, oil, and other fossil energy technologies, which will help the country make greater use of our rich natural energy resources and help keep down energy costs; and $936 million – an increase of $23 million – for funding for nuclear energy research, development, and demonstration activities; and $1.7 billion for renewable energy programs, which are cut by $279 million from last year’s enacted level. Science Research – The bill includes $5.1 billion for science research – an increase of $29 million above the fiscal year 2015 enacted level. This funding will help strengthen the nation’s science and technology innovation by supporting basic energy research, development of high-performance computing systems, and research into the next generation of clean energy sources. This basic research will lay the groundwork for more efficient and practical domestic energy solutions to help reduce the nation’s dependence on foreign oil, and help promote future growth in American businesses and industries. Bureau of Reclamation - The legislation contains $1.1 billion – $35 million below the fiscal year 2015 enacted level and $1 million below the President’s request – for the Department of the Interior and the Bureau of Reclamation to help manage, develop, and protect the water resources of Western states. Yucca Mountain – The bill continues congressional efforts to support the Yucca Mountain nuclear repository, providing $150 million for the Nuclear Waste Disposal program and $50 million for the Nuclear Regulatory Commission to continue the adjudication of DOE’s Yucca Mountain License application. The legislation also denies an Administration proposal for non-Yucca nuclear waste activities. OTHER WATER & ENERGY ISSUES: The bill prohibits any changes to federal jurisdiction under the Clean Water Act. The bill prohibits any changes to the definition of “fill material” and “discharge of fill material” for the purposes of the Clean Water Act. The bill restricts the application of the Clean Water Act in certain agricultural areas, including farm ponds and irrigation ditches. The bill includes language allowing the possession of firearms on Corps of Engineers lands. For the complete text of the subcommittee draft of the FY 2016 Energy and Water Appropriations bill, please visit: https://appropriations.house.gov/UploadedFiles/BILLS-114HR-SC-AP-FY2016-EnergyWater-SubcommitteeDraft.pdf ###
05.01.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies, voted against H.R. 2029, the Fiscal Year 2016 Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies Appropriations government spending bill. The bill weakens national security, sidelines necessary military construction, and shortchanges our nation’s investment in medical care for veterans. Most of the nation’s Veteran Service Organizations (VSOs), including the Veterans of Foreign Wars, the American Legion, AMVETS, Disabled American Veterans, Paralyzed Veterans of America and the Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America, were highly critical of the bill passed by the House of Representatives. “Without a doubt, the Department of Veterans Affairs has struggled to provide quality accessible care to our nation’s veterans,” said Congressman Bishop. “The Majority’s move to deny the VA vital resources will undercut much needed internal reform. Rather, their reductions will have very real consequences by creating dangerous gaps in access and utilization of vital services provided to our veterans and their families, lowering overall quality of care, hurting the middle class, and weakening our economy in the process.” Leaders in the advocacy for veterans and their families, the Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW), the Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America (IAVA), and The American Legion have noted H.R. 2029 “is set to penalize disabled veterans” and “impede VA's mission” if signed into law with the proposed inadequate levels of funding. “The VA cannot fulfill its mission without proper funding, but the House for whatever reason now wants to ration care, eliminate infrastructure projects, and stop improving upon the programs and services that the VA was created to provide,” said John W. Stroud, VFW national commander and leader of the 1.9 million-member VFW and its Auxiliaries. “This bill is bad for veterans and any vote for it is unconscionable.” “Secretary McDonald has been upfront and, above all, realistic in asking for full funding of the president’s FY 2016 request,” said Matthew Miller, Chief Policy Officer of the Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America. “Reform of the VA, its facilities and its infrastructure are monumental tasks. Unfortunately these challenges become almost unobtainable with a reduction in funding outlined in the House’s mark.” "Regardless of political gamesmanship being played between Congress and the White House, The American Legion expects VA to be fully funded," said Michael D. Helm, National Commander of the American Legion. "We agree with Secretary McDonald that cutting his department's budget by more than a billion dollars is unacceptable." Regarding H.R. 2029, please click here for more information regarding the stance of the VFW, here for more information regarding the stance of The American Legion, and here for more information regarding the stance of the IAVA. As the leader on this bill and Ranking Member of the MilCon/VA Appropriations Subcommittee, Congressman Bishop managed the Floor debate for House Democrats. He also offered an amendment to fully fund the Department of Veterans Affairs. H.R. 2029 passed 255 to 163 and now goes on to the Senate for debate. For more information on funding levels and other key provisions in the Military Construction, Veterans Affairs Bill, please click here. BACKGROUND: Veterans Affairs Medical Care The $585 million reduction to the FY 2016 Veterans Affairs (VA) Medical Care request would negatively impact medical care services for tens of thousands of veterans and reduce VA's ability to activate new and replacement facilities with sufficient staff and equipment and to adequately maintain facility infrastructure. Veterans Affairs Construction The $582 million reduction to the FY 2016 VA major construction request would prevent building upgrades and renovations, including necessary expansions to medical facilities and national cemeteries that would improve services to our veterans. The bill would significantly constrain VA's ability to make progress on its highest priority capital projects. Other Veterans Affairs Reductions As VA attempts to enhance staffing to deliver better care to veterans, the $159 million in reductions to the VA requests for employee awards, bonuses, and the proposed 1.3 percent pay raise for Federal employees will hinder the Department's ability to recruit and retain personnel critical to the provision of benefits and services to veterans. Military Construction The Committee's under-funding of military construction in the Pentagon’s FY 2016 base defense budget by $1.3 billion will delay or defer projects that serve critical needs for members of our Armed Forces and their families. The projects requested in the FY 2016 Budget reflect the highest priority projects for the Department of Defense. But the bill that was considered by the House of Representatives eliminates funding for four Major Construction projects and cemetery expansion projects, reducing the ability to provide burial honors for as many as 18,000 Veterans and eligible family members every year. Overseas Contingency Operations (OCO) Funds The Committee's use of $532 million of OCO funds intended for wars and not subject to the budget caps to pay for long-term infrastructure investments is bad budget policy and bad defense policy, since it undermines long-term planning. Detainee Matters Section 512 of the bill prohibits the use of funds to construct, renovate, or expand any facility in the United States to house individuals held in the detention facility at Guantanamo Bay. This provision would constrain the flexibility that the Nation's Armed Forces and counter-terrorism professionals need to best protect U.S. national security, intruding upon the Executive Branch's ability to carry out its mission. ###
04.30.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) warned of Republican budget consequences for Georgia and our nation after voting against the Republican Budget Conference Report. “If our budget ultimately is a statement of our nation’s values and priorities, then I am deeply concerned that we could be mortgaging our future for the sake of misplaced priorities. While I strongly support the goal of putting our nation’s fiscal house in order, I do not believe that reducing the deficit should come at the expense of jobs, economic growth, and vital investments in health care, education, and our workforce. “It makes little sense then to support a budget which would destroy millions of jobs, create dangerous gaps in service for our veterans, weaken national security, transform Medicare into a voucher program, decrease economic growth, pave the way for a tax plan that ends higher education tax credits, end the boost in the child tax credit, ignore our crumbling infrastructure, and surrender American leadership in education, research and innovation. “Even more astounding is that this budget would repeal all of the benefits and patient protections in the health reform law, driving up the out-of-pocket cost of health coverage and reducing access to quality care. Truly, for millions of Georgians and Americans across the nation, the motto for this budget should be ‘all pain, no gain.’” ###
04.22.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies, issued the following statement regarding the passage of the Fiscal Year 2016 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act out of the full U.S. House of Representatives Appropriations Committee. “The Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act has a strong reputation for finding bipartisan common ground as members work together to fund the construction of military facilities and strive to improve the quality of life and care afforded to our veterans and military families. I am pleased the Committee continues to demonstrate strong support of our service members, but recognize that serious challenges remain in fulfilling our responsibility to veterans and moving the appropriations process forward under such inadequate sequester funding levels. “Passage of this bill maintains the tough but fair reporting requirements for DoD-VA Electronic Health Records integration, prioritizes the elimination of the VA claims backlog, as well as provides necessary funding for military maintenance and construction of military family housing, information technology, and medical facilities. “However, I believe that it is well past time to be more strategic about how we handle our federal budget, so we can eventually stop lurching from one fiscal crisis to the next. The Majority chose to lock in sequester levels of funding, forcing a shift in a portion of the Military Construction budget into the Overseas Contingency Operations account, and a major reduction in the VA’s construction budget. Today’s markup is another step in a long appropriations process, and while I am concerned about the impact of these reductions, I am hopeful that these concerns will be addressed as we move further towards full passage.” Below is a list of highlights of funding levels and other key provisions in the Military Construction, Veterans Affairs Bill: BACKGROUND & BILL HIGHLIGHTS: 2016 Mark: $76.057 billion 2016 OCO: $532 million 2015 Enacted: $71.808 billion 2015 OCO: $221 million President's Request: $78.785 billion MILCON/VA IN GEORGIA: Defense-Wide $10.9 million for replacement pump house and truck fill stands at Moody Air Force Base; Army $90 million for a Command and Control Facility at Fort Gordon; Navy $7.851 million for ground source heat pumps in Albany; $8.099 million for industrial control system infrastructure at Kings Bay; $48.279 million for bombing range expansion Phase II in Townsend; Air National Guard $9 million for C-130 Squadron Operations at Savannah/Hilton Head IAP; MILITARY CONSTRUCTION: $7.151 billion, an increase of $593 million above the FY 2015 enacted level and $1.286 billion below the President’s request, is provided for Military Construction programs. The total funding for Reserve Components is $512 million, which is $85 million above the FY 2015 enacted level, and $39.1 million below the President’s request. The bill fully funds the 2015 budget request for Family Housing construction at $1.413 billion, which is $222.6 million more than the FY 2015 enacted level. The bill fully funds the 2016 budget request for the BRAC account at $251.3 million, a decrease of $63.7 million from the FY 2015 enacted level. VETERANS AFFAIRS: The Committee recommendation includes $68.662 billion in discretionary funding, which is $3.6 billion above the 2015 level, and $1.4 billion below the President’s request. Unlike previous years, the subcommittee recommendation fails to meet the discretionary budget request in several areas, including Medical Services; Medical Support and Compliance; Medical Facilities; Medical and Prosthetic Research; Construction, Major Projects; General Administration; and Information Technology. As authorized by Congress in 2009, the VA medical services accounts are provided funding one year in advance. The recommendation includes $967 million of the $1.1 billion requested for the current year budget request, which is in addition to the FY 2016 advance appropriation provided in the FY 2015 law. The subcommittee recommendation provides $606.8 million for Medical and Prosthetic Research, which is $17.8 million above the FY 2015 enacted level, and $17.8 million less than the President’s request. The subcommittee recommendation provides $561.8 million for Construction, Major Projects, which is equal to the FY 2015 enacted level and $582 million less than the President’s request. The bill also shifts responsibility from Congress to the VA to decide which projects would be funded and which would not. OTHER VA ISSUES: Electronic Health Records: Like the FY 2015 Appropriations law, the subcommittee recommendation includes language requiring the VA to provide information on the VistA Evolution system before release of 75 percent of the funding provided. Disability Claims Backlog: The subcommittee recommendation continues monthly reporting requirements from regional offices on disability claims processing performance and quality reports on remediation efforts at the poorest performing regional offices. Construction Funding: To enhance oversight on VA’s facility construction efforts: No funding greater than $5 million may be reprogrammed between construction accounts without approval by the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations; Any change to the scope of a construction project is prohibited without the approval of the Committees; and VA must report any bid savings of $5 million or more on projects as soon as they are identified. For more information on funding levels and other key provisions in the Military Construction, Veterans Affairs Bill, please click here. ###
04.16.2015	MACON, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) is strongly encouraging the young men and women from Georgia’s 2nd Congressional District to seek nominations to the United States service academies, which can provide an all-expense paid college education along with leadership training for military service to the nation. Nominations are available for the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, the U.S. Naval Academy, the U.S. Air Force Academy, the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, and the U.S. Coast Guard Academy. The deadline for submission of the nomination forms for 2016 high school graduates is October 30, 2015. “It is a privilege and an honor to nominate exceptional young men and women to United States service academies,” said Congressman Bishop. “I highly encourage the bright and motivated students from Middle and Southwest Georgia to pursue this life-changing opportunity of distinction, education, and inspiration through future service to their community and their nation.” Though the nomination process is competitive, top tier students from the Middle and Southwest Georgia have been able to receive fully-funded appointments to each of the military service academies. In the past year, William Butler from Fort Benning and Skyler Dexter from Upatoi received an appointment to West Point Academy; and Matthew Carter from Macon received an appointment to U.S. Air Force Academy. Each applicant’s process begins by sending one personal letter to Congressman Bishop indicating his or her interest in joining the academy nomination process and to which academy he or she wishes to join. Eligible candidates for a Congressional nomination must be United States citizens, reside in the Georgia’s second Congressional District, and be between the ages of 17 and 22 on the year admitted. To request an application packet and apply, candidates should contact Toni Pickel in the Albany office at 229-439-8067 or by email at toni.pickel@mail.house.gov. In order for applications to be reviewed and processed in a timely manner, applications must be submitted to the district office by October 30 of the student's senior year. For more information and to download the nomination application forms, please click here. ###
04.02.2015	ALBANY, GA – Congressman Sanford Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement regarding the finalized consent agreement between the Federal Trade Commission (FTC), Phoebe Putney Health System, HCA Inc., and the Hospital Authority of Albany-Dougherty County over the merger between Phoebe Putney Health System and Palmyra Medical Center in Albany, Georgia. “This decision has had an impact on Phoebe Putney’s ability to recruit new doctors and medical personnel, financially affecting the hospital and thus our community. This agreement has been a long time in coming, and now that it is here, I look forward to Southwest Georgia moving forward with the assurance of the world-class health care we have come to expect from Phoebe Putney.” For more information, please click here and here. ###
03.27.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sanford Bishop (D-Georgia), Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), U.S. Senator John Thune (R-SD), and Senator Charles Grassley (R-Iowa) are calling on Congress to permanently repeal the federal estate tax, which takes up to 40% of a person’s property (cash, real estate, stock, or other assets) that he or she leaves to his or her children. Also referred to as the “death tax,” it punishes success and traditional American virtues of hard work and thrift. According to the Tax Foundation, repealing the estate tax would create 39,000 new jobs and boost federal revenue. “I have heard from farmers, funeral home owners, newspaper publishers, radio station owners, and garment manufacturers about the need for estate tax relief. I believe that the estate tax is politically misguided, morally unjustified and downright un-American,” said Congressman Bishop. “It undermines the life work and the life savings of farmers and small- and medium-sized businesses in Georgia and across the nation.” “Imposing a tax rate as high as 40 percent on savings is not just bad for the economy, it’s unfair to families that have saved and built job-creating small businesses in their local communities,” said Senator Thune. “Currently more than 70 percent of family businesses do not survive to the second generation, and 90 percent of family businesses do not survive to the third generation. This legislation will finally give farmers, ranchers and family business owners the peace of mind of knowing that they no longer have to spend substantial sums on planning to minimize their death tax liability. I believe there is now a majority in both the House and the Senate who agree with us that the death tax punishes a lifetime of hard work and I hope to see movement in both chambers on this legislation this year.” “The Death Tax is still the number one reason family-owned farms and businesses in America aren’t passed down to the next generation,” said Congressman Brady, a senior member of the tax-writing Ways & Means Committee and lead House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee. “It’s the wrong tax at the wrong time and hurts the wrong people. After a family loses a loved one, why should Uncle Sam swoop in and take much of the nest egg they spent a lifetime building? Especially when it forces the survivors to take out loans or sell their land or business just to try to keep some of what they worked so hard to earn. I have families in my district that have paid this tax multiple times on the same property. They deserve better.” “The death tax creates an unfair situation for minority businesses which have primarily started to accumulate wealth within the last 60 years. Many minority-owned family businesses are first-generation businesses, where children work alongside their parents. These business owners do not want to sell out at fire-sale prices to pay the estate tax and eliminate the livelihoods for the next generation in addition to the jobs for those whom they employ,” said Harry Alford, the president and CEO of the National Black Chamber of Commerce. “This level of taxation continues to pose a serious threat to the likelihood that present-day African American-owned businesses can be preserved as part of a family’ long-term legacy. Full repeal of the estate tax would allow African Americans to pass the full fruits of their business success to the next generation and thereby laying the foundation for a permanent minority ownership class that can contribute to the economic growth and development of the United States economy,” said Robert Johnson, Founder of Black Entertainment Television (BET). The National Black Chamber of Commerce’s Harry Alford, the 60 Plus Association’s James Martin, Reliable Contracting’s Patricia Baldwin and the South Dakota Cattleman’s Association’s Todd Wilkinson also participating in the news conference in the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation Hearing Room. To view a picture from the press conference, please click here. Links to Bios of the participants U.S. Representatives Sanford Bishop (D-Georgia) U.S. Representatives Kevin Brady (R-Texas) U.S. Senator Charles Grassley (R-IA) U.S. Senator John Thune (R-SD) Harry Alford, National Black Chamber of Commerce Patricia Baldwin, Reliable Contracting James Martin, 60 Plus Association Todd Wilkinson, South Dakota Cattlemen’s Association ###
03.27.2015	WASHINGTON D.C. – Congressman Sanford Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) voted in favor of the bipartisan package H.R. 2, the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015​​, which will strengthen health care for older Americans, poor children, and families by permanently fixing the Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR) formula for Medicare physician payments, providing funding to pay Medicare Part B premiums, supporting community health centers, and extending the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) for two years. “This vote ensures that doctors will be able to continue providing high quality health care services to our seniors and veterans without the threat of ever-larger fee cuts followed by short-term patches,” said Congressman Bishop. “Overall, the bipartisan legislation will restore clarity to our budget, stability to health care providers, and certainty to our seniors—a win for the dedicated physicians of Middle and Southwest Georgia who strive to provide outstanding services for their patients and a hopeful nod towards a Congress that can work together to get the job done for the American people.” In addition to replacing the broken SGR formula – which is used to determine annual Medicare physician fee updates – with fairer growth targets to keep doctors’ pay steady, the bill also promotes primary care by providing an extra growth allowance for primary care services that can keep patients healthier longer. H.R. 2 was approved by the House of Representatives with a vote of 392 to 37 and now goes to the Senate for consideration. For more information, please click here. ###
03.27.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop Jr. (GA-02), member of the U.S. House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food & Drug Administration, and Related Agencies, applauded the appointment of Martin ‘Marty’ L. McLendon of Leary, Georgia to the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) Agriculture Marketing Service Peanut Standards Board. “Marty has shown himself to be an extraordinary leader as a major producer in the Peanut Industry and I am thrilled to hear that he will be representing Georgia on the Peanut Standards Board,” said Congressman Bishop. “The Peanut Standards Board is an important asset to peanut farmers in Georgia, and across the nation, and I am positive that Marty will do his absolute best to work with the other members and the USDA to keep the Peanut industry growing stronger than ever.” Martin L. McLendon was born and raised in Southwest, Georgia and is a graduate of the University of Georgia. Being a major producer in the Peanut Industry, he also serves on the Georgia Flint River Commission and is very active in civic activities in his community. As a member on the board he will work with the USDA to help improve quality and handling standards involving the production of peanuts. The Peanut Standards Board members are appointed by Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack under the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) and represent the Southeast Region, covering Alabama, Georgia, and Florida. The Peanut Standards Board is authorized under the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002. ###
03.25.2015	GEORGETOWN, GA — Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) welcomed the United States Coast Guard’s (USCG) decision to continue maintaining the Aids to Navigation Team (ANT) at the Lake Eufaula United States Coast Guard (USCG) station. The ANT Eufaula maintains the navigation system on the Apalachicola, Chattahoochee, and Flint River (ACF) waterway, which helps to keep Lake Walter F. George, Lake Seminole, and the river system safe for boaters and fishers. Originally planned to close operations due to budget constraints, the Coast Guard has reconsidered due to safety and community concerns. “The United States Coast Guard’s decision to keep ANT Eufaula operations open is great news for boaters and fishers in Georgia and Alabama,” said Congressman Bishop, “For the sake of safety, commerce, and recreation, it is imperative that the ACF waterway remains securely navigable, and so I applaud the Coast Guard’s wise assessment.” The continuation of federal aid from the USCG to ANT Eufaula helps commercial barge traffic and also greatly benefits the usage of recreational boating traffic on these waterways. The aid also benefits the local economy by supplying more jobs and revenue from boating sales and activities in the community. Last month, Congressman Sanford Bishop (D-GA), Congresswoman Martha Roby (R-AL), Senator Richard Shelby (R-AL), and Senator Jeff Sessions (R-AL) sent a letter to Admiral Paul Zukunft of the Coast Guard, joining the many community voices expressing strong opposition to the removal of the river navigation aids. To view the letter, please click here. ###
03.24.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) committed to supporting voters throughout Georgia and across the country by serving as an original co-sponsor to H.R. 12, the Voter Empowerment Act of 2015. The bill would extend greater access to citizens at the ballot box, and would more effectively protect voter rights. “By enhancing voter participation, this bill reflects the true character of the nation, holding leaders more directly accountable to the populations they represent,” said Congressman Bishop. “Modernizing voter registration will improve the integrity of the election system and, during this 50th anniversary of the monumental Voting Rights Act, will serve to advance the mission of equal rights for all Americans.” “Even if the days of poll taxes, literacy tests, and brutal physical intimidation are behind us, disenfranchisement tactics that aim to suppress voter participation are alive and well. The Voter Empowerment Act eliminates such divisive barriers separating voters from the ballot box and takes advantage of modern technology to bring our elections into the 21st Century,” concluded Bishop. Introduced by Congressmen John Lewis (GA), James Clyburn (SC), Steny Hoyer (MD), John Conyers (MI), and Robert Brady (PA), the Voter Empowerment Act draws support from dozens of Members of Congress, House Caucuses and civil rights advocacy groups. Among other important provisions, the Act would enable same-day voter registration, create a national voter protection hotline, and establish mandatory paper trail and voting machine standards. It would also allow online voter registration, expand early voting, ensure the equitable allocation of polling place resources, and prohibit voter caging and other deceptive practices that deter people from exercising their constitutional right to vote. ###
03.24.2015	COLUMBUS, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement in recognition of Women’s History Month during March of 2015: “Throughout this Women’s History Month, please join me in honoring women who have gone above and beyond to inspire and advance our nation. For example, during the Revolutionary War, Deborah Sampson took a major risk by disguising herself as a male soldier and serving in the Continental Army. Her story is an inspiration to the brave women serving in our armed forces today. “Susan B. Anthony tenaciously fought for the women’s right to vote, helping push for equality with the eventual adoption of the 19th Amendment. As the first woman in space, Sally Ride opened the hatch for women to boldly explore and expand our knowledge of the final frontier. In present day, Aflac President Teresa White and Executive Vice President Audrey Tillman are role models for us all—serving with distinction as the first females within the highest ranks of Aflac’s executive officers. “Truly, outstanding women hold their place in the history books as visionaries and groundbreakers, but also inspire our lives as mothers, daughters, sisters, and friends. It is my sincere hope that during this Women’s History Month, Americans will continue to reflect on the contributions all women have made to creating and enhancing the quality of life for all of humankind.” ###
03.18.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), issued the following statement regarding the retirement of Ralph Paige, the Executive Director of the Federation of Southern Cooperatives/Land Assistance Fund (LAF): “I would like to express my sincere gratitude towards my good friend Ralph Paige for his decades of dedication to the Federation of Southern Cooperatives/Land Assistance Fund. Since it was founded in 1967, Ralph has spent a career assisting minorities succeed as farmers, interfacing with 1890 land grant institutions, providing technical assistance, as well as helping rural families purchase and keep the rights to their land and home. With his support, the Federation of Southern Cooperatives/LAF has strengthened our communities and bolstered the economy of our great state. I know his presence as the Executive Director will be sorely missed, but the legacy he leaves behind will continue to serve the Federation of Southern Cooperatives/LAF well for years to come.” ###
03.18.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Representatives Kevin Brady (R-Texas) and Sanford Bishop (D-Georgia), who are leading the charge to repeal the controversial federal estate tax, this week introduced the Death Tax Repeal Act of 2015. “The Death Tax is still the number one reason family-owned farms and businesses in America aren’t passed down to the next generation,” said Brady, a senior member of the tax-writing Ways & Means Committee. “It’s the wrong tax at the wrong time and hurts the wrong people. After a family loses a loved one, why should Uncle Sam swoop in and take much of the nest egg they spent a lifetime building? Especially when it forces the survivors to sell their land or business just to try to keep what they worked so hard to earn.” Bishop points out the fastest growing sector of the American economy are women and minority owned small businesses building wealth for the first time. “I have heard from farmers, funeral home owners, newspaper publishers, radio station owners, and garment manufacturers about the need for estate tax relief. I believe that the estate tax is politically misguided, morally unjustified and downright un-American,” said Bishop. “It undermines the life work and the life savings of farmers and small- and medium-sized businesses in Georgia and across the nation.” A study by the Joint Economic Committee reports the onerous estate tax hurts economic growth by discouraging savings and small business growth. Many studies have indicated that ending the estate tax would actually increase overall federal tax revenue by encouraging more investment. “Taking out loans for Uncle Sam while trying to keep a family farm or ranch afloat is wrong,” added Brady. “I have families in my district that have paid this tax multiple times on the same property. They deserve better.” ###
03.11.2015	ALBANY, GA—Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement regarding the 50th anniversary of ‘Bloody Sunday’, March 7, 1965. On that day, up to 600 civil rights activists marched across the Edmund Pettus Bridge and out of Selma, Alabama on U.S. Highway 80. Led by John Lewis of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee (SNCC), the Reverend Hosea Williams of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference (SCLC), Bob Mants of SNCC, and Albert Turner of SCLC, the peaceful protest met violence from a waiting line of state troopers and deputized civilians. The resulting brutality and bloodshed, broadcast on national and international media, bolstered the campaign to pass the Voting Rights Act of 1965. “The 1965 Selma to Montgomery Voting Rights March is one of the most seminal and pivotal events in America’s civil rights movement,” said Congressman Bishop. “The combined efforts of civil rights leaders, political leaders in the Johnson Administration, and our esteemed colleague, John Lewis, who put his life on the line when he crossed the Edmund Pettis Bridge in Selma, Alabama on March 7, 1965 -- made the Voting Rights Act a reality. Not only are the events of Bloody Sunday a vivid memory from the past, but also a stark reminder that it is up to all of us to protect our sacred right to vote for future generations.” To learn more about ‘Bloody Sunday’, please click here. ###
03.09.2015	COLUMBUS, GA—Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) announced the awarding of a new $395,400 grant from the NeighborWorks national organization to assist NeighborWorks Columbus in their efforts to revitalize and sustain communities, promote and preserve affordable housing options, as well as create and sustain jobs in Columbus, Georgia during the 2015 fiscal year. The national funding is appropriated through the Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations Act of 2015. “I commend NeighborWorks America and its willingness to invest in Columbus and support the American dream by providing this significant grant,” said Congressman Bishop. “I am very thankful for the diligent work of NeighborWorks Columbus, as their effort to help families find a home not only creates jobs and provides basic security, but also strengthens our communities throughout the greater Chattahoochee Valley.” “We acknowledge that NeighborWorks America has enjoyed bi-partisan support of the work its affiliates do in the field every day,” said Justin Krieg, NeighborWorks Columbus Board Chair. “This allocation will allow NeighborWorks Columbus to continue to pursue our vision of eliminating substandard housing in Columbus. We are very appreciative of Congressman Bishop’s support.” The NeighborWorks Columbus chapter is a part of the national, public nonprofit organization which supports and builds the capacity of over 240 local and regional nonprofit partner NeighborWorks organizations, comprised of local private-sector business leaders, local government representatives, and community residents. Established by Congress in 1978, NeighborWorks and the NeighborWorks network assisted 323,400 families with housing and created and maintained 35,000 jobs during the 2014 fiscal year alone. For background on previous grants to NeighborWorks Columbus, please click here and here. To learn more about NeighborWorks Columbus, please click here. ###
03.09.2015	ALBANY, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) invited all students in Grades 9 through 12 from Georgia’s 2nd Congressional District to participate in the 34th Annual Congressional Art Competition. “I have long believed that in our southwest and middle area of Georgia, we have some of the best, the brightest, the most creative, and the most talented young people in the world,” said Congressman Bishop. “From Columbus to Cairo to Cordele to Colquitt, the Congressional Art Competition is an excellent medium through which we can channel the creativity and imaginations of our young students, promote art education, and give recognition to the outstanding work that our schools are doing to enable young people to realize their potential.” The winner of this year’s competition will have his or her artwork displayed for one year in the Cannon Tunnel, a busy underground walkway to the U.S. Capitol from the House office buildings. All participants will be invited to attend a reception at the Albany Museum of Art at 311 Meadowlark Drive, Albany, Georgia on Friday, April 17, 2015 at 2:00 PM. The winner will also be invited to join Congressman Bishop at a national awards reception in Washington, D.C. All artwork must be submitted to the Albany District Office at 235 West Roosevelt Avenue, Suite 114 no later than Monday, April 13, 2015. The official competition rules can be found here. For more information, please contact Toni Pickel in the Albany District Office by email at toni.pickel@mail.house.gov or by phone at 229-439-8067. ###
03.04.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop (GA-02) supported the passage of H.R. 240, a bill to fund the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). The legislation continues funding full DHS operations through the end of September 2015. “Above everything, it is vitally important that a DHS shutdown be averted so critical services provided by Homeland Security continue to safeguard and secure our families, businesses, and communities in Georgia and across the nation. House passage of the clean Senate agreement on DHS funding ensures that TSA, border patrol, the secret service, the Coast Guard, FEMA, and initiatives bolstering cyber-security are funded until the end of the fiscal year 2015. It is my hope that in the meantime, rational minds will convene over a long term solution regarding immigration reform, and pass a solution for the benefit of all Americans.” The legislation was approved by the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 257 to 167. For more information regarding the Department of Homeland Security Continuing Resolution and its provisions, please click here. ###
02.26.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) urged Senator Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and Senator David Perdue (R-GA) to support the United States Senate’s nomination of U.S. Attorney Loretta Lynch to be U.S. Attorney General. He sent a letter of support to each Senator. If confirmed, Ms. Lynch would replace outgoing U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder. “I strongly believe that Ms. Lynch has the qualifications, skills, and temperament to lead the U.S. Department of Justice. Her humble upbringing, strong academic credentials, outstanding record both as a litigator and as the twice-appointed U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of New York make her uniquely qualified to serve as the nation’s top law enforcement officer,” wrote Congressman Bishop. United States Attorney Loretta Lynch has led the United States Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of New York (EDNY) twice; from 1999 to 2001 and from 2010 to the present. In that capacity, she has been responsible for overseeing all federal and civil investigations and cases in Brooklyn, Queens, and Staten Island, as well as Nassau and Suffolk Counties on Long Island. She is the Chair of the Attorney General’s Advisory Committee (AGAC) for United States Attorneys. U.S. Attorney Lynch manages over 160 Assistant U.S. Attorneys and 120 support staff in fighting against terrorism, public corruption, and community violence in some of the nation’s toughest neighborhoods. Under U.S. Attorney Lynch’s leadership, the EDNY has developed a national security practice that has tried more terrorism cases since 9/11 than any other office in the country, prosecuted groundbreaking cyber and international organized crime cases, built an MS-13 anti-gang program that is a national model, crafted institutional change in the construction industry in New York, championed victims of human trafficking, defended the government in litigation, and protected the environment. In United States v. Medunjanin, et al., the EDNY and the FBI’s Joint Terrorism Task Force (JTTF) foiled a coordinated suicide bombings in the New York City subway system. Under Loretta Lynch’s leadership, Al Qaeda operative Adis Medunjanin was convicted at trial for his role in the plot and sentenced to life imprisonment. In United States v. Lajud, et al., working with the Secret Service, EDNY prosecutors solved two cyber-heists involving $45 million in fraudulent ATM withdrawals in 26 countries, which used sophisticated intrusion techniques to hack into the systems of global financial institutions, steal prepaid debit card data, and eliminate withdrawal limits. United States Attorney Loretta Lynch is a graduate of Harvard College and Harvard Law School, and was a partner at the New York office of Hogan & Hartson L.L.P. To view a scan of the letters to Senators Isakson and Perdue, please click here. ###
02.25.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Due to his years and breadth of experience, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) has been selected as the Ranking Member on the U.S. House of Representatives Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies (MilCon/VA) for the 114th Congress. Congressman Bishop has also been selected for the Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food & Drug Administration, and Related Agencies as well as the Financial Services Subcommittee. “It is a great honor for me to be selected to serve as the Ranking Member on the MilCon/VA Appropriations Subcommittee. In the years to come, our MilCon/VA Subcommittee will play an important role in funding necessary military construction projects and holding the VA accountable for our veterans,” said Congressman Bishop. “With nine major military facilities and over 700,000 veterans in Georgia, I am committed to supporting our nation’s military infrastructure, the programs that assist those service members, and the military families who sacrifice so much for our country.” “I am also eager to continue serving on the Agriculture Appropriations Subcommittee and am excited for my new position on the Financial Services Appropriations Subcommittee. With the vital role of agriculture and business in Georgia’s economy, I will fight for those who work to produce the highest quality, safest, most abundant and economical food and fiber in the industrial world and the rural communities in which they live and work. Ensuring the funding of the government entities watching over our nation’s financial system is especially necessary in these times of fiscal uncertainty, and I look forward to undertaking the challenges to get our nation back on track toward fiscal solvency and prosperity,” concluded Bishop. In addition to his subcommittee assignments, Congressman Bishop will also continue to serve as Co-Chair of the Congressional Military Family Caucus, the Congressional Peanut Caucus, and will remain a member of a number of other caucuses addressing the needs of the people of the second Congressional District of Georgia. To view a full list and description of Congressman Bishop’s committee assignments and Congressional caucus memberships, please click here. ###
02.10.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representative Charlie Dent (PA-15) Chairman of the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Subcommittee and Representative Sanford Bishop (GA-2), the Subcommittee’s Ranking Member, issued a statement today marking the passing of Subcommittee member Representative Alan Nunnelee (MS-01): Ranking Member Bishop: “Mississippi and the entire country have lost a great American. Alan and I shared a passion for supporting veterans and service members, which made it a pleasure to fight for our nation’s veterans and fund the military’s construction needs together through the House Appropriations Subcommittee. His presence and friendship will be sorely missed throughout the Capitol. I offer my most sincere condolences to Alan’s wife and family of as they go through this period of mourning.” Chairman Dent: “Representative Nunnelee was a good man who treated people with respect and dignity. The people of Mississippi’s First District should know that they were well-represented by a gentleman with honor, integrity and heart. He truly cared about veterans and those who serve our country. His devotion to them was evidenced by his fine work on the Committee. He will be greatly missed. My wife, Pamela, and I both embrace Alan’s wife Tori, and his children Reed, Emily and Nathan in our thoughts and prayers.” ###
02.05.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – On February 9, 2015, the application period for the Fiscal Year (FY) 2014 Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) Program will open at 8:00 AM and will remain open until March 6, 2015 at 5:00 PM. Additionally, the application period for the FY 2014 Fire Prevention and Safety (FP&S) Program will open on Monday, March 16, 2015 at 8:00 AM and will close on April 17, 2015 at 5:00 PM. The FY 2014 DHS Appropriations Act provides $340 million for the SAFER program, which provides much-needed funding for career and volunteer fire departments to hire new firefighters and recruit and retain volunteer firefighters. The program is critical to the thousands of fire stations across the country that are currently operating short on staff. When adequately funded, SAFER will bring our nation’s fire departments to staffing levels that improve the safety of our firefighters, and the communities they serve, as they respond to the scene of a fire, auto accident, or other natural or manmade disasters. The FY 2014 FP&S initiative offers $34 million to support efforts to preventatively enhance the safety of the public and firefighters with respect to fire and fire-related hazards by working to reduce injury and death from fire related incidents in high-risk populations. Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) is a strong supporter of funding for both the SAFER program and the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. Last April, he and a bipartisan group of Representatives stood up in support of this funding so that firefighters and emergency workers all over the country, including those in his own district, would be better able to serve their communities. For more information on Congressman Bishop’s efforts to support funding for firefighting efforts, please click here. The U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s (DHS) Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) released the FY 2015 funding announcements for both programs on December 23, 2014. For more information on the SAFER program and the application process, please click here. For more information on the FP&S program and application process, please click here. ###
02.05.2015	ALBANY, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford Bishop (GA-02) released the following statement in recognition of Black History Month during February of 2015: “Black History Month remains a perfect time to reflect on the many inspirational events, inventions, and successes of African-Americans, all which that have created an indelible impact on American society for future generations. “Throughout history, African-Americans have added much to the melting-pot that is the United States of America. Leaders and activists such as Thurgood Marshall and Martin Luther King Jr. bravely defended and advanced law and equality for all races. Wonderful entertainers such as Sidney Poitier and Billie Holiday explored the arts with us, vividly presenting the beauty in life and our surroundings. “Creative inventors and educators such as Garrett Morgan and Mary McLeod Bethune improved our lives in ways never before imagined. Poignant authors such as Maya Angelou and Langston Hughes brought gravity to our thoughts and deeds, and of course we have all cheered for our sports heroes from Joe Louis and Althea Gibson to Hank Aaron and Michael Jordan. “As we celebrate this month of inspiration, let us look back in pride on the triumphs of African-Americans for the betterment of all humankind, for together, the strength of all races combined draw tighter the fabric of the rich tapestry of our great nation.” ###
02.02.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture and Co-Chairman of the Congressional Peanut Caucus, welcomed a recent win for the U.S. pecan industry. China recently announced that they have lowered the import tariff on in-shell and shelled pecans from 24% to 10%. Last summer, Congressman Bishop hosted representatives from the China Nut Roasters Association in Georgia to discuss issues surrounding trade in pecans. “We are proud of our pecans here in Georgia and I am happy to be able to welcome this win for our state’s industry,” said Congressman Bishop. “With lower import tariff rates, the boost of trade to China will bring jobs and revenue right back home to Middle and Southwest Georgia. This is a win everyone can celebrate!” “It is a pleasure to work with the members of Congress on trade agreements that will benefit not only the consumer here in the United States but also consumers in China as well. We especially appreciate Congressman Sanford Bishop’s support he has given the U.S. pecan industry,” said Hilton Segler, Executive Director of the National Pecan Growers Council. “This reduction in the tariff is a direct result of multi-state and multi-grower efforts over the last few years to improve our pecan presence in China. We will continue to work with Congressman Bishop as he has an ongoing dialogue with USTR regarding pecan tariff issues.” said Brad Ellis, President of the Georgia Pecan Growers Association. “The reduction in the Chinese pecan tariff from 24% to 10% is going to put pecans in a very competitive place, and will have a significant positive impact on the value of pecans in the United States,” said Jay Glover, President of the National Pecan Growers Council. “It is estimated that Georgia annually exports over 75% of their total production to China, with a gross value of production estimated at over $150 million. The Georgia Pecan Growers would like to thank Congressman Bishop for his recent hosting of representatives from the China Nut Roasters Association that played a significant role in recommending the recent tariff reduction,” said Randy Hudson, local Georgia pecan grower. Commercially produced in 14 states, pecans are the only native tree nut grown in the United States. Approximately 80% of the world’s pecan production is located in the United States. The U.S. pecan crop totaled 302.8 million pounds in 2012, a 12% increase from 2011. Georgia’s Second Congressional District is the largest pecan producing Congressional District in the nation, with production for all pecans (improved varieties and native and seedling) reaching 100 million pounds in 2012. For more information on the announcement, please click here. ###
01.28.2015	ALBANY, GA—Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) is proud to announce that the A. West Enterprise of Albany, Georgia, has been awarded an $8.8 million contract to implement various safety and reliability upgrades to the institutional power system at National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA)’s Kennedy Space Center at Cape Canaveral, Florida. “I have always said that the small businesses in Middle and Southwest Georgia are some of the most creative, hard working, and industrious in the entire world,” said Congressman Bishop. “A. West Enterprise has gone above and beyond, and I am extremely proud to see this locally grown company assist our nation reach the stars through working with NASA at the Kennedy Space Center in Florida.” “We are amazed at how much God has blessed our company through the opportunities presented to us over these past five years,” said Eddie West, co-founder and Assistant Manager of A. West Enterprise. “This contract will support the mission of NASA while providing growth and employment to our staff based here in Albany, Georgia.” The firm-fixed price NASA contract with A. West Enterprise began January 23. 2015. It has a maximum value of $8.8 million with a potential performance period of approximately two and a half years. An electrical contracting and wiring company, A. West Enterprise will provide services to meet NASA requirements that include refurbishing substation buses, installing new controllers, relay management systems, metering and protection packages, demolition and replacement of underground medium-voltage cable, low-voltage wiring, communication cable, manholes, cable trays, control wiring, installing neutral grounding resistors, surge arrestors, generator plant equipment, and pad mounted transformers. For more information on NASA’s mission at the Kennedy Space Center, please click here. For more information about A. West Enterprise, please click here. ###
01.22.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) and Rep. Austin Scott (GA-08) re-introduced bipartisan legislation which will create Georgia’s first National Historical Park. The bill, HR 482, the Ocmulgee Mounds National Historical Park Boundary Revision Act of 2015, would expand the boundaries from approximately 700 acres to over 2,000 acres; change the park’s name from “Ocmulgee National Monument” to “Ocmulgee Mounds National Historical Park” in order to increase name recognition and draw additional visitors; and authorize a resources study to expand the park even further and include additional opportunities for hunting, camping, fishing, and other recreational activities. “Georgia’s rich cultural and archeological heritage runs deep in the red clay of our state,” said Congressman Bishop. “There are few places on earth like Ocmulgee where artifacts from the Ice Age to the modern day can be found. Creation of Georgia’s first National Historical Park here at Ocmulgee Mounds in the Macon-Bibb area will bolster the local economy with additional tourism and help preserve the important legacy of the original inhabitants of our great state.” “Georgia continues to have one of the richest cultural heritages of any state in the country,” said Congressman Scott. “By revising the boundaries of the Ocmulgee National Monument, we can continue to preserve our state’s history so future generations can learn about and enjoy the different cultures that have occupied our land over the years and have made us who we are today.” Due to its history and archaeological importance, the future Ocmulgee Mounds National Historical Park deserves to be preserved as a lasting memorial to how individuals relate to the land and other natural resources. Its expansion and improvement would be a fitting tribute to the Native Americans who first came to this historical site during the Paleo-Indian period to hunt Ice Age mammals. The expanded park also will generate much needed tourist revenue for Macon, Georgia and the surrounding areas while educating visitors on the little known fact that different cultures have occupied this land for thousands of years. The mounds and earth-lodges that the Mississippians built to serve as formal council chambers when they arrived in Macon around 900 A.D. remain intact for all to see and appreciate. Ocmulgee National Monument was originally authorized by Congress in 1934 to protect a fraction of the lands commonly known as the 'Old Ocmulgee Fields,' upon which certain Indian mounds of great historical importance are located. The legislation envisioned a large park of approximately 2,000 acres but local citizens could finance the acquisition of only 678 acres by the time it opened in 1936. Today, the Ocmulgee National Monument contains 702 acres. The role of the Ocmulgee National Monument is to "present a story of many stages of prehistoric cultural development, emphasizing the influences of agriculture, the Mound Builder period, and the relationship of these various cultures to each other and to life today." If the bill is enacted, the monument would be expanded to protect additional cultural and natural resources in the Ocmulgee Old Fields. Property also would be acquired only from willing donors or sellers, subject to the availability of funding. On October 10, 2014, the measure was endorsed by the Inter-Tribal Council of the Five Civilized Tribes (Cherokee, Chickasaw, Choctaw, Muscogee [Creek], and Seminole Nations), representing over 500,000 Indian people throughout the United States. To view the resolution of endorsement, please click here. To view the text of the Ocmulgee Mounds National Historical Park Boundary Revision Act of 2015, please click here. ###
01.20.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) issued the following statement regarding President Obama’s State of the Union address to a joint session of Congress: “I applaud the President for focusing on initiatives that strengthen the Middle Class and provide opportunities for all Americans. In order for our economy to grow and our nation to compete as a global power, we must focus inward to make Americans’ paychecks go further in tomorrow’s economy, prepare our workers to earn higher wagers, and keep quality jobs here in the United States. Additionally, I applaud action on strengthening our nation’s cyber security defenses, believe that our communities would benefit with increased access to a college education, and recognize the distinct need for an updated tax code more equitable for all Americans. “While I generally agree with the President’s remarks tonight, I do hold concern with the EPA’s continued expansion of its regulatory authority. Its proposals regarding water and air could have very profound and negative impacts on the constituents living in Middle and Southwest Georgia. Furthermore, it is vitally important that our economy continues to increase our energy portfolio by taking advantage of all types of resources including solar, wind, carbon, hydro, bio, nuclear, and fossil fuels—as well as oil. To that end, I am in support of safely developing our access to energy resources by boosting our oil supply and creating jobs through the completion of the Keystone XL Pipeline. “Regarding the upcoming year in Washington D.C., I believe that Congress owes the American people a responsible budget, so the affected folks can plan and prepare for the upcoming year. As the Congressman from Middle and Southwest Georgia, I will continue to work with my Democratic and Republican colleagues to find and pass balanced solutions that reduce the federal deficit, continue to strengthen our economy, and create opportunity for Georgians and all Americans across our great nation.” ###
01.13.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Subcommittee for Military Construction and Veterans Affairs (VA) met with the Department of Veterans Affairs Secretary Robert McDonald to discuss the status of the Veterans Affairs clinics in Columbus and Albany as well as challenges the VA will face in 2015. “After today’s productive meeting with the Secretary McDonald, I believe that we have a way forward, ensuring that our nation’s veterans have the care and services they so rightly deserve. Secretary McDonald brings a wealth of experience and leadership from the corporate world, and after hearing his plan of action for this year, I am hopeful that we can turn over a new leaf and strengthen the VA for the future,” said Congressman Bishop. “In addition to changing the management culture at the VA and ensuring that veterans get the timely care and consideration to which they are entitled, the Department needs to continue to address veterans’ homelessness, fully develop an integrated DoD-VA Electronic Health Records System, and eliminate the claims backlog. I look forward to working with Secretary McDonald to ensure that the VA has the resources it needs to address these important issues,” concluded Congressman Bishop. At the meeting, a number of items were discussed that pertain to Middle and Southwest Georgia. Congressman Bishop discussed details surrounding the Columbus (GA) and Albany (GA) VA Clinics. Specifically, Congressman Bishop expressed serious concern regarding the potential location a proposed VA clinic in the greater Columbus area and discussed recurrent service concerns raised with the Albany VA clinic. Secretary McDonald answered Congressman Bishop’s questions regarding the VA’s progress on recruiting doctors and nurses, particularly in rural areas. He also spoke about strategic changes to VA medical facility operations and administration. The Secretary outlined key challenges, opportunities, and goals for the future of the VA including addressing the integration of Department of Defense and VA electronic records as well as the outstanding backlog of veterans’ claims. ###
01.09.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) issued the following statement regarding the White House’s recent proposal to invest in America’s education system by making community college free for responsible students for two years: “I believe that this proposal is an excellent idea and commend the President for his timely action. Unfortunately, our nation has fallen behind in STEM education, and so our country needs to improve the quality and quantity of education for all Americans. Of course, the devil is always in the details, especially in our current fiscal climate. Nevertheless, the more emphasis we can place on education, especially technical education and job training, the better we will be able to remain competitive and maintain our status as a global leader.” For more information regarding the White House’s America’s College Promise Proposal, please click here. ###
12.22.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representatives Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (D-GA-02), Member of the House Committee on Appropriations, and Ed Whitfield (R-KY-01), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Energy and Power, today wrote to President Barack Obama to express their concerns regarding the proposed rule announced by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) on June 2, 2014, entitled “Carbon Pollution Emission Guidelines for Existing Stationary Sources: Electric Utility Generating Units.” EPA’s proposal would dramatically affect the “way we generate, transmit and consume electricity in the United States” by asserting unprecedented federal overreach in state electricity decision-making. Joined by nearly one hundred additional Members of Congress in the letter, Whitfield and Bishop detailed the complexity of the rule stating “EPA specifically directs states to consider renewable energy standards, generation dispatch changes, co-firing or switching to natural gas, construction of new natural gas combined-cycle plants, transmission efficiency improvements, energy storage technology, plant retirements, expanding renewables like wind and solar, expanding nuclear, market-based trading programs, and demand-side energy efficiency and conservation programs.” “Under the rule, EPA would also have the ability to impose its own alternate federal energy plan on a state in the event EPA did not approve a state’s plan. We agree that states should be free under their own laws to pursue these types of energy policies and activities within their own borders, but it is not the role of the EPA to exercise ultimate authority over a state’s electricity system.” Furthermore, Members stressed the importance of maintaining affordable and reliable electricity citing EPA’s own projections that “there would be additional power plant retirements and electricity rate increases.” If this were to occur, it would “…threaten electricity reliability and drive up energy costs for consumers, including the elderly, poor, and those on fixed incomes, at a time when over 50 million Americans are currently living in poverty.” The Members concluded the letter by recognizing that although some of their own views may vary on the statutory authority of the regulations they are “…all concerned that this rule is simply unworkable as proposed and, if finalized, would effectively give EPA control over a state’s generation, supply, and consumption of power. Accordingly, we respectfully ask that you direct the EPA to withdraw its proposed rule.” “I am pleased that Representative Whitfield and I were able to secure strong bipartisan support to prevent EPA from overreaching its authority,” said Bishop. “The proposed EPA rule would mean higher energy costs for consumers and would have a detrimental impact on our nation’s economy. Congress cannot and must not allow that to happen now and into the future.” “I want to thank all of the Members who joined together in this effort, and especially Representative Bishop for his dedication to affordable electricity, and for recognizing the dangerous impact of this EPA’s federal overreach,” said Whitfield. “EPA’s extreme actions are an attempt to force states and energy producers to conform to regulations that dramatically increase electricity costs, destroy American jobs, and weaken our economy. I will not sit idly by as these regulations are made a reality. As Subcommittee Chairman, I will continue to use every tool at my disposal to exercise our oversight of the EPA and thoroughly examine all aspects of these regulations.” To view a copy of the letter to the President, please click here. ###
12.19.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) issued the following statement regarding the recent announcement of the United States seeking to restore diplomatic and economic relations with Cuba: “First and foremost, I am grateful for the efforts of President Obama, Senator Leahy, Representative Lee, and all the others who worked so hard to secure the freedom of Alan Gross and Rolando Trujillo. I am pleased that Alan Gross is now back home and reunited with his family, and am relieved that he and Rolando Trujillo are safe on American soil. “From a national security, humanitarian, and economic point of view, normalizing our relationship with Cuba is a win-win for the United States. After 50 years of the failed policy of isolationism, establishing diplomatic relations with Cuba will renew our leadership with a strategic regional neighbor as well as allow us to compete more effectively with China’s continually expanding global reach. Facilitating travel and commerce will reunite separated families, open up new opportunities for America and Cuba in needed Cuban infrastructure development, and allow the flow of basic goods and services between our two nations. “Moreover, reopening Cuba as a market for products such as medical goods, agriculture, and information technology makes sense for our industries here in Georgia and across the United States. Middle and Southwest Georgia have much to gain through the development of a new and accessible market right in our backyard.” Congressman Bishop is a former member of the U.S. House of Representatives Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. During his time on the Intelligence Committee, he traveled to Cuba twice and had the opportunity to meet with President Fidel Castro and heads of each of the ministries to discuss issues surrounding education, trade, commerce, and the potential of a mutual relationship between the two countries. Congressman Bishop spoke with the leaders of Cuba about the impact of opening up the borders and lifting the trade embargo on business between Georgia and Cuba. ###
12.04.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop (GA-02) voted to open opportunities for people with disabilities to build a tax-exempt savings account to pay for higher education expenses, a primary residence, transportation, obtaining and maintaining employment, health and wellness, and other personal needs. The bipartisan Achieving a Better Life Experience, or ABLE Act (H.R. 647), of which Congressman Bishop is a co-sponsor, was approved by the United States House of Representatives by a vote of 404 to 7. “The ABLE Act is long overdue legislation that will allow individuals with disabilities to keep more of their hard earned savings and lead more independent lives,” said Congressman Bishop. The ABLE Act is supported by many organizations including the National Federation of the Blind, National Down Syndrome Society, Autism Society, National Organization on Disability, National Association of State Directors of Developmental Disabilities Services, and National Organization of Nurses with Disabilities. To read more about the ABLE Act, please click here. ###
12.04.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) supported strengthening the economy and providing certainty to Middle and Southwest Georgia taxpayers by voting in favor of H.R. 5771, the Tax Increase Prevention Act of 2014. The bill extends more than four dozen tax provisions that expired at the end of calendar year 2013 that would benefit businesses and individuals; H.R. 5771 was approved by a vote of 378 to 46 and now goes to the United States Senate for its consideration. “By lowering the amount of taxes paid, this bill strengthens America’s direct access to capital,” said Congressman Bishop. “The extension of tax credits and allowances in this bill is narrowly focused to where it is needed most – supporting America’s homeowners, growing jobs in Georgia, and stimulating our local economies.” Regarding educators and students, the Tax Increase Prevention Act includes the tax deductions on expenses of elementary and secondary school teachers and a tax deduction on qualified tuition and related expenses. For property owners, the bill provides a low-income housing tax credit rate for newly constructed non-federally subsidized buildings; accelerated depreciation of qualified leasehold improvement, restaurant, and retail improvement property, of motorsports entertainment complexes, and of business property on Indian reservations; a tax credit for residential energy efficiency improvements; a tax deduction for energy efficient commercial buildings; and a tax credit for energy efficient new homes. For business owners, film studios, and transportation, the bill includes a tax credit for differential wage payments to employees who are active duty members of the Uniformed Services; the expensing allowance for film and television production costs and costs of live theatrical productions; and a tax credit for qualified railroad track maintenance expenditures. The bill also supports the production of clean energy by providing a tax credit for second generation bio-fuel production; income and excise tax credits for biodiesel and renewable diesel fuel mixtures; and a tax credit for producing electricity using wind, biomass, geothermal, landfill gas, trash, hydropower, and marine and hydrokinetic renewable energy facilities. For more information and full list of tax extenders, please click here. ###
11.24.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies issued the following statement regarding the resignation of Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel: “A decorated combat veteran, thoughtful Senator from Nebraska, and steadfast Secretary of Defense, Chuck Hagel’s commitment to our nation speaks for itself. Always reflecting upon his personal connection to our enlisted men and women, Secretary Hagel worked to ensure the continuous care of our soldiers, airmen, sailors, Marines, and their families as the Department of Defense transitioned away from two full scale conflicts in the Middle East. As our armed forces strive to maintain readiness and vigilance in meeting new challenges at home and abroad, it is my hope that the incoming Secretary of Defense will work to fill the large and unfaltering boots of service left behind by Secretary Chuck Hagel.” For more information on Secretary Hagel’s biography, please click here. ###
11.19.2014	COLUMBUS, GA—Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) is proud to announce that the Columbus Housing Authority will receive $837,119 in housing voucher grants from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to assist with the Booker T. Washington Development renewal project, a low-income housing development scheduled for demolition. The housing choice vouchers will allow low-income families to lease or purchase safe and affordable privately-owned housing. “These vouchers will provide a fresh start for families in Columbus who need safe and affordable housing,” said Congressman Bishop. “The vouchers will also make a big difference in rejuvenating the community by continuing the reconstruction of one of the oldest public housing facilities in Georgia.” “The Columbus Housing Authority is excited to be receiving HUD’s housing vouchers,” said Len Williams, Executive Director at the Columbus Housing Authority. “The vouchers will allow us to move ahead with the Booker T. Washington project by providing relocation assistance for the residents.” Under the administration of the Columbus Housing Authority, the Booker T. Washington Apartments include 392 one- to three-bedroom units. After the demolition, 200 new units will be built with sections dedicated for use by families and senior citizens. The project is estimated to be completed by 2016. ###
11.18.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement on the passing of former Georgia Governor Carl E. Sanders: “I was saddened to hear of the passing of former Governor Carl Sanders. He lived a full life as a true statesman, philanthropist, veteran, defender of education, and champion for better government. During his terms as a ‘New South’ legislator and Governor, the Capitol in Atlanta was desegregated as national civil rights legislation was implemented nationwide. A successful businessman until his final years, Governor Sanders’ contributions to Georgia will long be remembered. Our grateful state’s thoughts and prayers go out to his family and friends during this difficult time of loss.” ###
11.14.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) supported job creation and energy independence by voting to support H.R. 5682, a measure that would immediately authorize the construction and operation of the Keystone XL pipeline. The project has been awaiting a Presidential permit for six years because the pipeline crosses an international border. “In addition to creating jobs and strengthening our national security, the Keystone XL Pipeline project will advance the security and diversity of the United States' petroleum supply in an environmentally safe and economically responsible manner,” said Congressman Bishop. “To keep up with an increasingly competitive world, it is vitally important that our economy continues to increase our energy portfolio by taking advantage of all types of resources, including solar, wind, carbon, hydro, bio, nuclear, and fossil fuels--including oil.” The Keystone XL project would transport an estimated 830,000 barrels of oil per day from Alberta, Canada to Gulf Coast refineries, thereby reducing U.S. reliance on energy imports from the Middle East and Venezuela as well as immediately making the U.S. less vulnerable to political and security-related disruptions. In addition, the pipeline would produce significant economic benefits by directly creating an estimated 20,000 jobs. Hundreds of thousands of additional jobs are expected to be created indirectly, both in the building of the pipeline and in the refining of its crude oil. H.R. 5682 passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 252 to 161. The U.S. Senate is expected to vote on an identical measure next week (S. 2280). ###
11.11.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies and Co-chair of the Congressional Military Family Caucus (CMFC), released a statement honoring our nation's veterans in advance of the upcoming Veterans Day: “Our veterans are not just former soldiers, sailors, airmen, Marines, and Coast Guardsmen. They are community members who are working as teachers, postmen, doctors, and truck drivers. They are also fathers and mothers and neighbors to us all. Not only have they served and defended our nation and our liberties, but they continue to protect, learn, and invent so that we will know greater opportunity. On this Veterans Day, we take pause to give thanks to our veterans and their families for sacrificing so much for so many for so long. America is stronger because of their perseverance and bravery—and our nation would not be the same without their service.” ###
10.14.2014	Americus, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) is proud to announce that the Administration for Community Living (ACL) / Administration on Aging (AOA) has awarded a grant of $962,620 to the Rosalynn Carter Institute for Caregiving at Georgia Southwestern State University for their project, the Specialized Supportive Services Project through the Alzheimer’s Disease Initiative. The project’s goal is to address service gaps and strengthen existing services through the development and delivery of an evidence-based curriculum focused on behavioral symptom management. “The Rosalynn Carter Institute for Caregiving and Georgia Southwestern State University has been a leader in the treatment of family members impacted by Alzheimer’s Disease,” said Congressman Bishop. “It is truly important that we improve our understanding of how to care for individuals afflicted with Alzheimer’s Disease as our population ages.” “The project provides evidence based training for caregivers, both family and direct care workers. It is challenging to manage dementia behaviors that are a part of the Alzheimer’s disease, especially for those who are caring for people troubled by the symptoms. The goal of our project is to address service gaps and strengthen the existing service for people with dementia in Georgia.” said Dr. Leisa Easom, Principal Investigator of the Alzheimer’s Disease Initiative: Specialized Supportive Services Project at the Rosalynn Carter Institute for Caregiving at Georgia Southwestern State University. The grant will be used to develop the Dealing with Dementia Behaviors (DDB) Caregiver Manual and accompanying training curriculum, which will disseminated to direct care workers, persons with Alzheimer’s disease and Related Dementia (ADRD) living alone, those with developmental disabilities, and family caregivers. Furthermore, the project will educate and collaborate with Area Agencies on Aging, family caregivers, volunteers, and direct care work force who deal with individuals struggling with disorders exhibiting a decline in brain function such as Alzheimer’s disease. ###
10.10.2014	MACON, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement lamenting the deaths of Georgia Air National Guard Senior Master Sgt. James Swartz, an aerospace propulsion superintendent with the 116th Air Control Wing; Georgia Air National Guard Master Sgt Daniel Paschal, an aerospace propulsion craftsman with the 116th ACW; and active-duty Air Force Staff Sgt. Joshua Schoenhoff, an instrument and flight control systems specialist with the 461st Air Control Wing. The three Airmen, members of the Joint Surveillance Target Attack Radar System (J-STARS) Team, were on temporary duty at Kadena Air Base in Japan. While visiting the northwest coast of Okinawa Island, high winds swept the three airmen out to sea. All three bodies have been recovered. "I am deeply saddened to learn of the tragic deaths of Master Sgt. James Swartz, Master Sgt Daniel Paschal, and Staff Sgt. Joshua Schoenhoff,” said Congressman Bishop. “Our grateful nation's thoughts and prayers go out to their family, friends, and fellow Airmen during this difficult time of loss." ###
10.07.2014	ALBANY, GA — The U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) is improving farm loans by expanding and increasing lending limits to help more beginning and family farmers. USDA is simplifying the lending process by raising the borrowing limit for the microloan program from $35,000 to $50,000, simplifying lending processes, broadening the requirements of “farming experience”, and expanding and updating eligibility requirements for business entities interested in loans. These changes will become effective November 7, 2014. Small and mid-sized farmers will now be able to access additional $15,000 in loans using a simplified application process with up to seven years to repay. Furthermore, the expansion of eligibility will allow other types of skills such as leadership in military or advanced education in an agricultural field to be considered to meet the direct experience required in order to get the loan. The 2014 Farm Bill has been the key in making these programs a reality. This bill has made it possible for the USDA to provide essential services such as: disaster relief to farmers and ranchers; risk management tools; expansion of access to rural credit; and funding to critical research, housing, and community facilities to help improve quality of life in rural America. For more information about the USDA’s lending announcement and how it may impact beginning and family famers, visit here, here, and here. ###
10.06.2014	DONALSONVILLE, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) strongly urged the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to undertake a more proactive strategy to halt and ultimately eradicate the growth of hydrilla from Lake Seminole in Georgia. The following concerns were sent by letter to Lieutenant General Thomas Bostick, the Commanding General and Chief of Engineers of the Army Corps of Engineers. “The unbridled growth of hydrilla in Lake Seminole presents a major problem for the health and well-being of the lake and surrounding communities,” said Congressman Bishop. “To date, the Corps of Engineers’ response to the problem has not brought us closer to a solution, and I strongly urge the creation and execution of a plan that will reclaim our lake from these unwelcome weeds.” Lake Seminole’s hydrilla infestation poses a serious danger to the lake’s aquatic inhabitants. The weed’s ability to multiply at alarmingly high speeds has enabled it to dominate the vegetation within the lake. As hydrilla grows, it gradually creates a thick, blanket-like cover near the water’s surface, which drastically impedes sunlight and oxygen from reaching the lake’s submerged plant life. The unfettered growth of hydrilla in Lake Seminole also raises economic concerns. The dense network of hydrilla that forms near the water’s surface significantly limits boat use and other forms of water recreation. Furthermore, it may lead to a decrease in property values of real-estate surrounding Lake Seminole as the recreational-related resources within the area are negatively impacted. In the past, Congress has appropriated support to fund Army Corps initiatives to cut back the infestation, but during the past several years of constrained budgets, support has not been accessible to manage the overgrowth of hydrilla in Lake Seminole. To view the letter sent to Lieutenant General Bostick, please click here. ###
10.06.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies, advocated for Georgia’s pecan industry during a brief meeting with India’s Prime Minister, Narendra Modi, in New York City on Sunday. After a private conversation, he gave Prime Minister Modi and his staff a letter calling for India to reduce pecan tariff rates. “Georgia is a major exporter of pecans,” said Congressman Bishop. “The tariff on U.S. pecans, however, is currently an astronomical 36.26% in India, while other U.S. tree nuts enter India at a tariff rate of 10% or below. I was pleased to have had an opportunity to personally bring this situation to Prime Minister Modi’s attention so that more U.S. pecans can enter India’s market.” Over the past five days, Modi made his first trip to the United States as Prime Minister of India, meeting with the President, lawmakers, business leaders, and members of the Indian Diaspora in New York City and Washington DC. After speaking to the United Nations General Assembly, Prime Minister Modi greeted 19,000 people at a rally at Madison Square Garden. Congressman Bishop had the opportunity to meet with Prime Minister Modi and advocate for the pecan industry at a diplomatic reception just prior to the Prime Minister’s address to the Indian Diaspora and other official guests at Madison Square Garden. Pecans are grown in about 15 states in the southern belt of the United States. U.S. growers produced 360 million pounds of pecans in 2012, about 45 % of which was exported to other countries. In 2013 the U.S. exported 54,923 metric tons of pecans. Georgia is the largest producer of pecans in the United States. To view the letter to India’s Prime Minister Narendra Modi, please click here. The full text of the letter is as follows: His Excellency Narendra Modi Prime Minister of India South Block, Raisina Hill New Delhi 110011 Dear Prime Minister: The pecan industry is very excited about the potential of exporting pecans to India. India has a dynamic economy and a long history of consuming tree nuts. The reaction of consumers in India to pecan samples distributed and pecans that have been delivered to date has been very positive. A study done by the U.S. Department of Agriculture found that pecans contain more antioxidants than any other tree nut at 5,095 micromoles per ounce. In comparison, one ounce of walnuts only contains 3,846 micromoles and one ounce of almonds only contains 1,265 micromoles. The major hindrance of developing this market in India is the very high tariff placed on imported pecans. Though India does not produce pecans, it has levied an effective duty of 36.26% on all pecan imports and a requirement to fumigate all large incoming shipments, which adds to costs and delays. While pecan imports are burdened with this high tariff, other U.S. tree nuts enter India at a tariff rate of 10% or below. I respectfully ask for you to review the tariff rates placed on U.S. pecans. The U.S. pecan industry would like to continue to expand our market in India and share this delicious and healthy tree nut with India’s consumers. With warmest regards, I remain Sincerely yours, Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. Member of Congress ###
09.24.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) led 57 of his colleagues in supporting increasing opportunities for the employment of persons with disabilities by co-authoring a letter requesting the U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) explain their degree of adherence to the Javits-Wagner-O’Day (JWOD) Act, which requires federal agencies to buy products and services from an agency employing individuals with disabilities. The AbilityOne program offers employment opportunities for nearly 50,000 individuals who are blind or have other disabilities. “We want to make sure federal government entities support programs that offer employment opportunities for individuals who are blind or have other disabilities,” said Congressman Bishop. “A thriving workforce is an inclusive workforce and it is our responsibility to make that happen.” As the members wrote in the letter, “We ask GSA to work with us, the AbilityOne Commission, and National Industries for the Blind to guarantee compliance with the JWOD Act and further the goal of creating long-term, stable employment for Americans who are blind or who have other significant disabilities.” The U.S. General Services Administration’s (GSA) task is to provide equipment, supplies, telecommunications, information technology, and other services to government organizations. The JWOD Act mandates that federal government entities obtain any products or services included on the AbilityOne Program Procurement List (PL) from a nonprofit agency employing persons who are blind or have other significant disabilities as long as that product or service is available within the normal period required by that government entity. When products are on the PL and a federal agency has a need for them, those products must be purchased from the AbilityOne Program. Federal employees are prohibited from purchasing products determined to be “essentially the same” as products on the PL. Below is the full text of the sent letter: The Honorable Dan M. Tangherlini Administrator U.S. General Services Administration Washington, DC 20405 Dear Administrator Tangherlini: We write today regarding the U.S. General Services Administration (GSA)’s compliance with the Javits-Wagner-O’Day (JWOD) Act, which requires federal agencies to purchase specified products and services through the AbilityOne Program. The AbilityOne Program offers employment opportunities for nearly 50,000 individuals who are blind or have other significant disabilities. The JWOD Act mandates that federal government entities obtain any products or services included on the AbilityOne Program Procurement List (PL) from a nonprofit agency employing persons who are blind or have other significant disabilities as long as that product or service is available within the normal period required by that government entity. When products are on the PL and a federal agency has a need for them, those products must be purchased from the AbilityOne Program. Federal employees are prohibited from purchasing products determined to be “essentially the same” as products on the PL. In order to ensure GSA is fully aware of, and in compliance with, the AbilityOne purchase requirements mandated by the JWOD Act, we ask GSA to respond to the following questions: What has been the performance of GSA commercial contractors with regard to maintaining the AbilityOne mandatory status? How has GSA managed non-compliant contractors? What mark-up does GSA apply to AbilityOne products sold through GSA Global Supply? What specific policies will GSA follow to ensure that commercial contractors comply with the mandatory requirements of the AbilityOne program? We ask GSA to work with us, the AbilityOne Commission, and National Industries for the Blind to guarantee compliance with the JWOD Act and further the goal of creating long‐term, stable employment for Americans who are blind or who have other significant disabilities. ###
09.18.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop (GA-02) supported House Joint Resolution (H. J. Res.) 124, the Continuing Resolution (CR) for Fiscal Year 2015. The legislation continues funding for all government operations through December 11, 2014. The Export Import Bank of the United States will be authorized to continue operating until June 30, 2015. Also, the bill provides $88 million in additional funding to fight the Ebola virus outbreak in Western Africa. Lastly, the bill authorizes the training and equipping of vetted elements of the Syrian opposition to the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL). The legislation was approved by a vote of 319 to 108. “It is vitally important that a government shutdown be averted so crucial services provided by the government continue to be available to seniors, families, small business, veterans, and our communities in Georgia. I am pleased that this government funding bill will ensure continued operations. Once Congress returns in the fall, I look forward to working with my colleagues to return to regular order by passing all twelve full year appropriations bills. “Regarding authorizing funding to oppose ISIL, while I prefer peace to war, of course, in order to have peace, you have to be in a position of strength. My main concern is the safety of the American people, at home and abroad, and our ability to defeat ISIL is paramount in order to neutralize them so they will no longer be a threat to our national security. “As the tragedy in Western Africa continues to unfold, I am hopeful that additional funding provided by the CR to the Department of Health and Human Services’ Public Health and Social Services Emergency Fund will be useful in stemming the spread of the disease by supporting the accelerated development of therapies for Ebola. “Lastly, if Congress did not reauthorize the Ex-Im Bank, millions of jobs will be lost as our small businesses lose their competitive edge in foreign markets. Our nation is not in a position where we can afford to lose jobs when the economy is just beginning to rebound. While today’s short-term solution continues Ex-Im Bank’s operations, I look forward to a long-term reauthorization so we may really claim a win for American workers, small businesses, and our rural communities.” For more information regarding the Continuing Resolution and its provisions, please click here. ###
09.16.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), co-chair of the bi-partisan Congressional Military Family Caucus (CMFC) joined Blue Star Families at the release of their yearly Military Family Lifestyle Survey. The key concerns of military families identified from this year’s survey were transition from the service, military pay, and changes to retirement benefits. “Every year, Blue Star Families’ Military Family Lifestyle Survey just gets better and better,” said Congressman Bishop. “Their survey helps us remember this one lesson—Military service is about people, and often, about how those individuals sacrifice in defense of our country. How we take care of those service members and their families will determine how the most professional all-volunteer force this world has ever seen will be sustained in the future.” Blue Star Families was formed by a group of military spouses to create a platform where military family members can join with civilian communities and leaders to address the challenges of military life. Blue Star Families includes active duty, National Guard, Reserve, wounded, transitioning service members and their families from all ranks and services, as well as supportive veterans and civilians. The Blue Star Families Military Family Lifestyle Survey takes a proactive look at the current needs and priorities of military families and service members and what can be done to support them. The goal of the survey is to provide concrete data and information about prominent aspects of the military lifestyle so that decision-makers can make informed choices on their behalf. To learn more about Blue Star Families and the survey, please click here. ###
09.16.2014	FORT VALLEY, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) is proud to announce that Fort Valley State University (FVSU) has been awarded two 1890 Capacity Building Grants from the National Institute of Food and Agriculture (NIFA) within the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA); $299,500 for the US-Honduras Partnerships to Strengthen Faculty and Students` Global Agricultural Research, Education, and Cultural Experiences project, as well as $149,500 for the Career Awareness and Opportunities in Agricultural Biotechnology project. Both grants will provide resources to recruit, teach, and train more students in agriculture research and biotechnology as well as increase the amount of qualified professionals pursuing careers in agricultural science. “Well-funded research facilities are vital to keeping America a leader in research science, and so I am very grateful for these opportunities extended to Fort Valley State University to train students,” said Congressman Bishop. “I commend the USDA and NIFA for their commitment to support academic institutions like Fort Valley State University, for this grant will assist in training the workforce for tomorrow right here in Middle and Southwest Georgia.” “Through funding from NIFA we intend to prepare global leaders for the food and agricultural biotechnology industry,” said Dr. Sarwan Dhir, Professor of Plant Biotechnology. “We will accomplish this goal by providing the right tools, training and career guidance to the target audience including K-12 students and educators of African–American descent, a population that has been under exposed to these fields in the past.” For more information on 1890 Capacity Building Grants, please click here. For more information regarding agriculture and biochemistry research at Fort Valley State University, please click here. ###
09.16.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement today in recognition of Hispanic Heritage Month, which runs from September 15 to October 15: “National Hispanic Heritage Month is an excellent opportunity for Americans to join together in celebration of the immeasurable contributions of the Latino community to our great nation. “Latinos have helped build America from the ground up and continue to be an integral part of the fabric of this nation, whether it is by serving in the Armed Forces, opening a small business, caring for the ill, teaching young minds, or working day-to-day to build a better life for themselves and their families. “Our nation is one of democratic ideals and noble values and we must continue to show the world that we are an open-minded and inclusive culture that lifts up all Americans to reach their greatest potential. Every day that we don’t act on immigration reform hinders our efforts to pursue enhanced innovation, greater job creation, faster economic recovery, and more secure communities. “As we celebrate Hispanic Heritage Month, let us look back to recognize the invaluable contributions of the Latino community, but let us also look forward to working together to keep the American dream in reach for all those who seek it.” ###
09.12.2014	ALBANY, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) calls the young men and women from Georgia’s 2nd Congressional District to participate in the start of the United States service academy nomination process. This year’s opportunity is open to all high school students and will close on October 31, 2014. “Once again, I am honored to have the privilege nominating strong, extraordinary young men and women from Middle and Southwest Georgia to our nation’s service academies.” said Congressman Bishop. “This opportunity provides motivated students not only a chance to receive a fully-funded education from one of our nation's top universities, but to also serve America as an officer in our Armed Forces.” Though the nomination process is competitive, top tier students from the Second Congressional District have been able to receive appointments to each of the service academies in the past. Each applicant’s process begins by sending one personal letter to Congressman Bishop specifying interest in joining the academy nomination process as well as specific interest in each academy: The U.S. Military Academy, U.S. Naval Academy, U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, and the U.S. Coast Guard Academy. Eligible candidates for a Congressional nomination must be United States citizens, reside in the Georgia’s Second Congressional District, and be between the ages of 17 and 22 in the year admitted. It is beneficial to begin the application process in the junior year of high school. All individuals may also pursue service academy nominations through their Senator’s office. Active duty military and the National Guard can pursue nomination through their direct Commanding Officer, and individuals with parents serving on active military can also pursue a nomination through the White House. To request an application packet and apply, candidates should contact Toni Pickel in the Albany office at 229-439-8067 or by email at toni.pickel@mail.house.gov. In order for applications to be reviewed and processed in a timely manner, applications must be submitted to the district office by October 31, 2014 of the student's senior year. For more information, please click here. ###
09.11.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement today to commemorate the 13th Anniversary of 9/11: “Thirteen years ago, a sharp pain was brought upon our homeland and changed us forever. We continue to remember the bravery of all our heroes: from the first responders, to our service members, to the strength of the everyday American. We remember the lives that were lost and our thoughts and prayers go to the families and communities who have suffered.” “The American people are fighters and instead of cowering in fear our nation stood strong and bound together. History has shown that if anyone on the face of God’s green earth can overcome challenges, it is us. As we endure combating global threats to Democracy, it is important for us to continue to stand together as a nation. “Today, hold your family and friends close as we reflect on the experiences surrounding and following 9/11. As our great nation pushes forward, we stand by our service members, veterans, police, firefighters, and first responders both now and into the future.” ###
09.10.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop Jr. (GA-02) greeted the Georgia Chamber of Commerce at their annual Capitol Hill briefing as well as introduced his friend and colleague Minority Whip Steny Hoyer (MD-05) to the delegation. The event was attended by representatives hailing from across Georgia’s business community. “Capitol Hill belongs to the people, and any day I can greet Georgians in Washington D.C. is a good day,” said Congressman Bishop. “The Georgia Chamber’s visits to the Capitol continue the dialogue between the hard working members of the Georgia business community and Congress on the issues important to us all—creating jobs, reducing burdensome regulations, and strengthening the economy.” “As so many of the decisions that impact business are made at the Federal level, we believe it is important for our Chamber to have open lines of communication with our representatives in Washington, D.C.,” said Chris Clark, President and CEO of the Georgia Chamber. “Our annual Fly-In plays an important role in our relationship with the members of our delegation and we greatly appreciate Congressman Bishop’s willingness not only to particulate in this event, but to always listen to the needs of Georgia’s business community.” The Georgia Chamber of Commerce is the state’s largest business organization, and focuses on keeping, growing, and creating jobs in Georgia. The Chamber represents businesses from across all industry sectors in Georgia and serves as partners and a resource to local chambers across the state. For more information on the Georgia Chamber of Commerce, please click here. To view and download a picture from the event, please click here. ###
09.10.2014	WASHINGTON D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) fought against overreaching governmental regulation by supporting the passage of H.R. 5078, the Waters of the U.S. Regulatory Overreach Protection Act of 2014. The bill rights the balance between the need to protect the environment and protect the livelihoods of Georgians by prohibiting the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) from executing proposed rules and definitions regarding streams and waterways under the Clean Water Act: “I believe that regulations should be put to three basic tests: be based in sound science; be based on a cost-benefit analysis; and be based on plain common sense,” said Congressman Bishop “In this light, I have concerns that the EPA’s proposed regulation expands the definition of navigable streams and waterways in a manner that would stretch EPA’s authority beyond the intent of Congress and would have a harmful impact on Georgia’s farming communities, businesses, and others whose livelihoods depend on available water resources—an over-reach this bill will prevent.” H.R. 5078 passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 262 to 152. The measure prohibits the EPA and the Army Corps of Engineers from finalizing, implementing, or enforcing either guidance or a rule proposed earlier this year that seeks to clarify the federal government's authority to regulate certain intrastate waters under the Clean Water Act, and it requires the agencies to consult with state and local officials to develop a new regulatory proposal. For more information regarding the EPA’s rules, please click here and here. The bill is supported by the Georgia Farm Bureau, GA Peanut Commission, the Southern Cotton Growers Association, and the National Council on Cooperatives (Southern Federation) in addition to the following list of organizations: Agricultural Retailers Association; Agri-Mark Inc.; American Farm Bureau Federation; American Horse Council; American Sugar Alliance; American Sugar Cane League; American Sugarbeet Growers Association; Association of Texas Soil & Water Conservation Districts; Corn Producers of Texas; CropLife America; Dairy Producers of Utah; Delaware-Maryland Agribusiness Association; Earth Moving Contractors Association of Texas; Exotic Wildlife Association; Forest Landowners Association; Forest Resource Association; Hardwood Federation; Idaho Dairymen; Independent Cattlemen’s Association of Texas; Kansas Grain and Feed Association; Milk Producers Council; Minnesota Corn Growers Association; Missouri Agribusiness Association; Missouri Dairy Association; National Alliance of Forest Owners; National Alliance of Independent Crop Consultants; National Cattleman Association; Beef Association National Council of Farmer Cooperatives; National Pork Producers Council; National Sorghum Producers and the Western Peanut Growers Association; National Turkey Federation; Northeast Dairy Farmers Cooperatives: Ohio AgriBusiness Association; Public Lands Council; Riverside & Landowners Protection Coalition; Riverside & Landowners Protection Coalition; Select Milk Producers, Inc.; South Dakota Agri-Business Association; South Dakota Grain & Feed Association; South East Dairy Farmers Association; South Texans' Property Rights Association; South Texas Cotton & Grain Association; Southeastern Lumber Manufacturers Association; Southwest Council of Agribusiness; Texas Agricultural Land Trust; Texas Association of Agricultural Consultants; Texas Association of Dairymen; Texas Broiler Council; Texas Cattle Feeders Association; Texas Citrus Mutual; Texas Deer Association; Texas Egg Council; Texas Grain & Feed Association; Texas Grain Sorghum Association; Texas Nursery & Landscape Association; Texas Pest Management Association; Texas Pork Producers Association; Texas Poultry Federation; Texas Poultry Improvement Association; Texas Rice Producers Legislative Group; Texas Seed Trade Association; Texas Sheep & Goat Raisers Association; Texas Soybean Association; Texas Turkey Federation; Texas Vegetable Association; Texas Wheat Producers Association; Texas Wildlife Association; Turfgrass Producers of Texas; U.S. Cattlemen's Association; United Egg Producers; Upstate Niagara Cooperative, Inc.; USA Rice Federation; Virginia Agribusiness Council; Virginia Poultry Federation; Vocational Agriculture Teachers Association of Texas; Western United Dairymen; Wyoming Ag Business Association; Wyoming Crop Improvement Association; Wyoming Wheat Growers Association ###
09.03.2014	COLUMBUS, GA – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) joined Export-Import Bank of the United States (Ex-Im) Vice President and Vice Chair Wanda Felton for a roundtable discussion and tour of Swift Spinning in Columbus, Georgia. “There are some 4,000 jobs that are directly related to the support that the Ex-Im Bank gives here in the Second District alone and there are millions of jobs that the bank supports nationwide,” said Congressman Bishop. “If Congress does not reauthorize the Ex-Im Bank, these jobs will be lost and we certainly are not in a position where we can afford to lose jobs when the economy is just beginning to rebound. It is my hope that reasonable minds will come together and recognize that the Ex-Im Bank is a win-win for American workers, small businesses, and our rural communities.” Headquartered in Columbus, Georgia, Swift Spinning produces cotton rings of spun yarn. After buying bulk cotton directly from the producers, the mill uses 32,640 spindles to produce 350,000 lbs. of spun cotton rings of yarn every week. Swift Spinning 100% cotton yarn is used to make three types of products; hosiery (socks), specialty weaving goods, and high end knitted apparel. Shipped domestically and internationally, Swift Spinning’s sale of cotton yarn contributes to international trade through its export of yarn in addition to supporting jobs in auxiliary industries here in the United States. “Swift Spinning is a strong advocate for reauthorization of the Ex-Im Bank, whose charter currently expires on September 30,” said Trey Hodges, President and CEO of Swift Spinning. “Ex-Im is a critical tool in our business model for credit insurance as we do business in Central America and Mexico. Due to larger credit lines and the name recognition of the U.S. government that Ex-Im bank brings to the table, these two factors have allowed our company to grow our business outside the US exponentially. We believe that our export business would suffer immediately if Ex-Im is not available.” The Ex-Im Bank, a wholly owned U.S. government corporation, is the official export credit agency (ECA) of the United States and finances and facilitates U.S. exports of goods and services while supporting U.S. employment. The agency is set to expire on September 30, 2014 unless Congress reauthorizes its charter. Swift Spinning is one of the many companies and small businesses that receive assistance through the Ex-Im Bank, which allows it to support jobs and compete overseas. “The Ex-Im Bank ensures that, all things being equal, American companies have the ability to win sales and grow sales outside of these borders based on merit,” said Wanda Felton, First Vice President and Vice Chair of the Export-Import Bank. “The Ex-Im Bank is a self-sufficient, self-sustaining government agency and we are careful and prudent in the way we manage the taxpayer dollar to the tune that we were able to return $2 billion over the past five years to the U.S. Treasury. Frankly, playing with every tool we’ve got to beat the competition is important because that’s how businesses grow and thrive and how we will drive job growth in this country in the future.” “Letting the Ex-Im Bank expire would be penny-wise and pound-foolish,” continued Congressman Bishop. “Job creation at Swift Spinning, and other companies where Ex-Im financing is utilized, is where the rubber meets the road, and if we want to have the American economy fully recover and expand, Ex-Im Bank is the kind of self-sufficient government agency we ought to be supporting.” In the Second Congressional District from 2013 to 2014, the Export-Import Bank reported that it authorized $45 million in direct loans, loan guarantees, working capital finance, and export credit insurance. It further reported that $89 million has been disbursed to support the export of goods and services over this time period. The total value of the exports that these funds have supported is $426 million. Ex-Im financing went to four exporters, all of which are small businesses. In addition to Swift Spinning in Columbus, other recipients include; Thrush Aircraft in Albany; Master Wall, Inc. in Midland; and Easterlin Pecan Company in Montezuma. For more information regarding Swift Spinning, please click here. For more information on the Export-Import Bank, please click here. To view and download a picture from the visit, please click here.
09.03.2014	Macon, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) is proud to announce that Macon-Bibb County has received a FY14 Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) award totaling $78,254 from the U.S. Department of Justice. The award will allow Macon-Bibb County to purchase law enforcement equipment as well as provide education and supervision services for the Drug Court Outreach program. “Funding from the JAG grant goes the distance to assist county and municipality based law enforcement get drugs off the street,” said Congressman Bishop. “Additionally, I am grateful for this opportunity extended to Macon-Bibb County to continue to provide individuals and families in the Drug Court programs access to the treatment and services they need to recover and lead successful lives.” The Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program (JAG) assists state and local governments in supporting a wide range of activities to prevent and control crime. Grant funds can be used for state and local initiatives, technical assistance, training, personnel, equipment, contractual support, and information systems for criminal justice. For more information on JAG grants, please click here. ###
08.26.2014	ALBANY, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) joined Export-Import Bank of the United States (Ex-Im) Vice Chair Wanda Felton for a roundtable discussion and tour of Thrush Aircraft in Albany, Georgia. The Ex-Im Bank, a wholly owned U.S. government corporation, is the official export credit agency (ECA) of the United States and finances and facilitates U.S. exports of goods and services while supporting U.S. employment. The agency is set to expire on September 30, 2014 unless Congress reauthorizes it. Thrush Aircraft is one of the many companies and small businesses that receive assistance through the Ex-Im Bank, which allows it to support jobs and compete overseas. “There are some 4,000 jobs that are directly related to the support that the Ex-Im Bank gives here in the Second District alone and there are millions of jobs that the bank supports nationwide,” said Congressman Bishop. “If Congress does not reauthorize the Ex-Im Bank, these jobs will be lost and we certainly are not in a position where we can afford to lose jobs when the economy is just beginning to rebound. It is my hope that reasonable minds will come together and recognize that the Ex-Im Bank is a win-win for American workers, small businesses, and our rural communities.” “The Ex-Im Bank ensures that, all things being equal, American companies have the ability to win sales and grow sales outside of these borders based on merit,” said Ex-Im Bank Vice Chair Felton. “The Ex-Im Bank is a self-sufficient, self-sustaining government agency and we are careful and prudent in the way we manage the taxpayer dollar to the tune that we were able to return $2 billion over the past five years to the U.S. Treasury. Frankly, playing with every tool we’ve got to beat the competition is important because that’s how businesses grow and thrive and how we will drive job growth in this country in the future.” “At Thrush Aircraft, we have 180 jobs right now and we will soon be creating another product line and adding more jobs,” said Thrush Aircraft President Payne Hughes. “The jobs are right here but the products will go overseas. Our business is growing and Ex-Im is a vital part of our growth and our banking.” “Thrush’s plane has been a greatly sought-after product and to have it produced by American workers right here in the Second District is a really good opportunity for us,” continued Congressman Bishop. “This is why letting the Ex-Im Bank expire would be penny-wise and pound-foolish. This is where the rubber meets the road in the terms of jobs and the economy and if we want to have the American economy fully recover and expand, this is the kind of self-sufficient government agency that we ought to be supporting.” In the Second Congressional District from 2013 to 2014, the Export-Import Bank reported that it authorized $45 million in direct loans, loan guarantees, working capital finance, and export credit insurance. It further reported that $89 million has been disbursed to support the export of goods and services over this time period. The total value of the exports that these funds have supported is $426 million. Ex-Im financing went to four exporters, all of which are small businesses. In addition to Thrush Aircraft in Albany, other recipients include Swift Spinning in Columbus; Master Wall, Inc. in Midland; and Easterlin Pecan Company in Montezuma. ###
08.25.2014	ATLANTA, GA – On Friday, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) and U.S. Secretary of Labor Thomas E. Perez hosted a Roundtable Discussion at Georgia Power Company in Atlanta, Georgia with state and local Trade Adjustment Assistance Community College and Career Training (TAACCCT) stakeholders. TAACCCT grants are competitive grants awarded to institutions of higher education to support the development, offering, and improvement of career training programs that can be completed in two years or less, and prepare program participants for employment in high-wage, high-skill occupations. The roundtable participants included principle stakeholders in the TAACCCT programs developed by Albany Technical College and Central Georgia Technical College, which focus on healthcare and industrial technology and foster partnerships between the school and employers in these industries. The roundtable discussion primarily focused on veterans within the targeted population. “Everyone at this roundtable is dedicated to preparing the men and women of America for the present and future challenges of our job force,” said Congressman Bishop. “Right in line with our mission, these grants help technical colleges better prepare adults for high-wage, high-demand employment fields locally here in Georgia, and across the United States.” The discussion was teleconferenced to Albany Technical College and Central Georgia Technical College (CGTC) and was kicked off by a virtual interactive tour of Albany Tech’s classroom where students demonstrated the steering mechanism for a manpowered vehicle they designed for the NASA Rover Challenge. Presentations were then made by Albany Tech President Dr. Anthony Parker; CGTC President Dr. Ivan Allen; Georgia Power Company Project Executive Henry Kelly; Houston Healthcare Executive Director of Human Resources Linda Watson; Phoebe Putney Health System President/CEO Joel Wernick; Albany-Dougherty Economic Development Commission President Justin Strickland; Georgia Department of Economic Development Workforce External Relations Director Jamie Jordan and Director of Programs Kristin Laarhoven; and Wounded Warrior Project Warriors to Work Director Alex Powers. The discussion was moderated by CGTC Director for Global Initiatives Rick Hutto. “The TAACCCT Grant has afforded Albany Tech the benefit of having achievement coaches in Engineering Technology on staff, who work in conjunction with faculty to assist students in enrollment, retention, and completion,” said Dr. Anthony O. Parker, President of Albany Technical College. As part of the grant consortium, Albany Technical College has led the way in assisting individuals with prior work experience or education credits in an effort to shorten the time to completion, specifically for individuals such as military occupational specialties, industry certificates, and corporate training. “Central Georgia Technical College is proud to be a higher education partner in the middle Georgia region,” said Deborah Burkes, Vice President of Institutional Effectiveness at Central Georgia Technical College. “CGTC provides opportunities for citizens to improve their skills and knowledge to better prepare them for the workforce. As a part of the College’s commitment to completion and to its communities served, we were pleased to share our pilot program results and our future goals for this initiative with Secretary Perez. We are eager about the activities that we are undertaking to improve Georgia’s workforce and the impact this program will have on our students and employers.” "Georgia Power welcomes Labor Secretary Perez and Congressman Bishop, as well as Georgia education and business leaders, for this important roundtable discussion,” said Scott Orr, Federal Legislative Affairs Coordinator at Georgia Power. “We are committed to developing the workforce of tomorrow through strong relationships with the state's universities and technical colleges, as well as innovative classroom programs such as Learning Power. Continued collaboration between business, government and education is absolutely critical as Georgia's economy grows and our students develop the skills necessary to succeed in careers at Georgia Power and other leading companies." “Today’s event was a great step forward by the Congressman and certainly the Secretary in trying to be sensitive to the value of employable jobs here in Southwest Georgia and I think their efforts together continue to create opportunity where there hasn’t been opportunity in the past, “ said Joel Wernick, President/CEO of Phoebe Putney Health System. “I am proud to tout the positive effects resulting from the collaboration between Albany Tech, CGTC, and their employer partners,” concluded Congressman Bishop. “I am pleased Secretary Perez could join us today and witness firsthand the deep commitment that federal, state, and local entities, the business community, and veteran service organizations hold for this cause.” Born and raised in a military family outside of Buffalo, New York, Secretary Perez has a long and distinguished career in public service. He has served as assistant attorney general in Maryland, Secretary of Maryland’s Department of Labor, and a law professor. He was nominated by President Barack Obama and sworn in as the U.S. Secretary of Labor on July 23, 2013. As part of a pre-Labor Day tour, Secretary Perez spent the day in Atlanta, where he spoke at the Loudermilk Center earlier that day. For more information on TAACCCT grants, please click here. A picture from Friday’s roundtable is attached; to view and download the picture online, please click here. ###
08.14.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement regarding the 79th anniversary of the enactment of the Social Security program: “Social Security, one of America’s proudest and most successful achievements, is a vital safety net to millions of senior citizens across the nation,” said Congressman Bishop. “Social Security has transformed retirement, saving millions of Americans from poverty and providing them with a sense of security and peace of mind. There is no question that America’s seniors deserve security and stability in their golden years after working hard throughout their lives, and I am fully committed to protecting Social Security for our elderly and disabled.” President Franklin Roosevelt signed Social Security into law on August 14, 1935. Since then, the Social Security program has been the foundation of income for millions of seniors and families, many of whom urgently need it. Families spend $775 billion in Social Security benefits nationwide each year, benefitting state economies and local businesses all across the country. ###
08.14.2014	SPOKANE, WA – Today, Thursday, August 14, 2015, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (D-GA), Co-chair of the bi-partisan Congressional Military Family Caucus (CMFC) and Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies joined Co-chair of the CMFC, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) at a Military Family Summit for over 125 members of the extended military family at Fairchild Air Force Base in Spokane, Washington. “Almost five years ago Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers and I founded this Caucus to honor the debt our nation holds for the sacrifices military families continue to make,” said Congressman Bishop. “Today’s summit reminds us that military service is about people. How we care for service members and their families determines the success of the most professional all-volunteer force this world has even seen, now and into the future.” Hosted by Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers, today’s CMFC Summit continued the dialogue between military families and the Caucus. Military families were introduced to Members of Congress, officials from the Department of Defense, and personnel from numerous military family support organizations to discuss pressing issues impacting them. "It is an honor and a privilege to speak with our military families, and this summit afforded us an opportunity to better understand the challenges these men and women face every single day,” said Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers. “Their stories are what matter most, and this productive event brings new purpose to the work we are doing to ensure the military family community has their voices heard. Be it military spouse employment challenges, furthering education, or transitioning from military life, we will take their thoughts and ideas back with us to Congress, and we will work together to create better opportunities on behalf of this community." Panel discussions designed to open a dialogue for military families addressed critical issues such as mental health, spouse employment and education, military child education, health care and caregiver concerns, and transition assistance with attending military families. “I am proud of the military families living in my district in Georgia at Fort Benning in Columbus, the Marine Corps Logistics Base in Albany, and the communities around Robins Air Force Base in Georgia,” continued Congressman Bishop, “They are a living embodiment of the eternal optimism we hold in our country. They proudly volunteered to join the less than one percent to serve our nation here and abroad, in support of our national defense. We must address their concerns, for truly, military families are the backbone of our military.” The CMFC is a bipartisan congressional caucus that educates elected officials, congressional staffers, senior military leaders and the public on a wide range of unique issues that affect military families. Currently, over 80 Democrats and Republicans are members of the CMFC. For coverage of the 2013 summit at Fort Benning, Georgia; please click here. For coverage of the 2012 summit at Fort Benning, Georgia; please click here. For coverage of the 2011 summit at Fairchild AFB in Spokane, Washington; please click here. To view or download photos from today’s event from today’s event, please click here. To view today’s live-tweet conversation through #MilFamSummit, please click here. For more information about the Congressional Military Family Caucus, please click here. In his opening remarks, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. noted the importance of giving back to our nation’s veterans and military families. Below is the full text of Congressman Bishop’s prepared remarks: PREPARED REMARKS FOR THE HONORABLE SANFORD D. BISHOP, JR. CMFC FAMILY SUMMIT – NATIONAL INFANTRY MUSEUM FAIRCHILD AIR FORCE BASE - THURSDAY, August 14, 2014 Good morning and thank you for joining us today for this year's Congressional Military Family Caucus Family Summit (CMFC)! It is a great pleasure to be amongst those who have such a big impact on making America great - our brave men and women in uniform and you who admirably support those that defend our nation and safeguard our liberties. I want to thank my colleague and Co-Chair of the CMFC, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers, for hosting the summit this year at Fairchild Air Force Base. For myself, Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers, and many of our colleagues in the Congressional Military Family Caucus, the issues discussed today are important to us not just because of our constituencies, but due to our deeply personal connection as well. Experiences like my wife's have taught me that our service members and their families serve and sacrifice together. I would be remiss if I did not also thank our keynote speaker - Chief Master Sergeant James Cody - for his participation in today's event. I commend you and and all the Joint Chiefs for your current, and future, work on behalf of our military families. I would also like to thank our moderators and panelists that will be facilitating the Summit today. Almost five years ago Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers and I founded this Caucus to honor the debt our nation holds for the sacrifices military families continue to make. We are deeply grateful to organizations such as Blue Star Families, Gold Star Wives, Military Child Education Coalition, American Logistics Association, Military Officers Association of America, and all of the military family support organizations here today. Your expertise will provide us with background on issues most important to the spouses, widows, and children of military service members stationed across the world. Sometimes it is easy to recognize the sacrifices that our service members make without being fully aware of the tremendous hardships their families must endure. We feel it is equally important to educate elected officials, congressional staffers, senior military leaders, and the public on a wide range of issues that affect military families. Additionally, I would like to salute the outstanding work being done on behalf of our military families by First Lady Michelle Obama and Dr. Jill Biden through Joining Forces Initiative as well as Members of the bipartisan Senate Military Family Caucus. Most of all, I would like to thank the service members, military families, widows, and veterans joining us today. Our nation will forever be grateful for your selfless sacrifices and service to our nation. Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers and I are incredibly proud to have everyone here today and wanted to kick off the Summit by shining a light on the special challenges which military families face: healthcare, education, jobs, housing, and child care. This will be the Fourth Congressional Military Family Summit that Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers and I have held with military families. Over time, the gathered feedback has included: - Mental Health impacts of 10 years at war; - Educational challenges facing military children; - Service members transitioning from active duty service to the civilian sector; and - Health care and caregiver concerns In the past, the feedback received was vital to our efforts in finding policy solutions that benefit our nation's beloved veterans, widows, and military families. So please feel free to speak your mind and share your story. This event provides our caucus a direction for the rest of the 113th Congress, and it is your input that points us to where we need to go. As our international conflicts begin to draw down, resulting in reductions in military end-strength and constrained defense budgets, we must ensure that our obligations to military families are met. I am proud of the military families living in my district in Georgia at Fort Benning in Columbus, the Marine Corps Logistics Base in Albany, and the communities around Robins Air Force Base in Georgia. They are a living embodiment of the eternal optimism we hold in our country. They proudly volunteered to join the less than one percent to serve our nation here and abroad, in support of the U. S. service member. Truly, military families are the backbone of our military. And after asking our Active Duty, National Guard, Reserve members, and their families to endure multiple deployments over the last twelve years, we in Congress must meet our commitment to support increased spousal and widow employment, training and education, health care options and coverage, as well as better military child education. We cannot rest and rely on the progress made in the past. We must continue to work on areas that need improvement, and explore new areas of concern. So, I would ask all those here today, who value our military families, to continue this dialog with us. The members of our Caucus, and other members of Congress, need to hear from you. Your voices are important and extremely powerful. We cannot forget -- military service is about people. How we care for service members and their families, determine the success of the most professional all volunteer force this world has even seen, now and into the future. We hope that you will actively participate in the breakout sessions and help us to work together, improve military families' quality of life, and expand your opportunities. God Bless. ###
08.14.2014	COLUMBUS, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) is proud to announce that the Columbus Consolidated Government of Columbus, Georgia has received a FY14 Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) award totaling $91,448 from the U.S. Department of Justice. The award will allow the Columbus Consolidated Government to hire personnel, perform drug screening and testing, and support substance abuse treatment programs. The goal of this project is to continue to provide substance abuse treatment and programming to juveniles and their families. “The Muscogee County Juvenile Court and Adult Felony Drug Court are essential to getting drugs off the streets of Columbus and providing treatment to individuals and families struggling with addiction,” said Congressman Bishop. “I am grateful for this opportunity extended to the Columbus Consolidated Government to continue to provide participants of the Drug Court programs with access to the treatment and services they need to recover and lead successful lives.” The Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program (JAG) assists state and local governments in supporting a wide range of activities to prevent and control crime. Grant funds can be used for state and local initiatives, technical assistance, training, personnel, equipment, contractual support, and information systems for criminal justice. A portion of the funds also will go to the Columbus Police Department to purchase license plate readers, software, and other law enforcement equipment. ###
08.02.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) called for a compassionate and comprehensive solution to the humanitarian crisis on the Southwest border after voting against H.R. 5230, a partisan measure presented by the House Majority party to address the flow of immigrant children crossing into the United States. Congressman Bishop also voted against H.R. 5272, a bill designed to restrict the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program (DACA) and deport current immigrants known as ‘DREAMers’. According to U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP), 52,193 unaccompanied children have been apprehended at the southwest border between October 1, 2013, and June 15, 2014, citing violence, abuse, crime, gang threats, and insecurity as a prime motivation for migrating. The largest number of children (29%) came from Honduras, followed by Guatemala (24%), Mexico (23%), and El Salvador (22%). “Many cite fear as the reason we must militarize our borders, cut down safeguards in our immigration processing procedures, and indiscriminately ship the children of terrorized families back across the border,” said Congressman Bishop. “Well, I am not afraid of upholding the standard of neighborly kindness which our forefathers set for our great nation while safely securing our borders against those who would do harm. But, I am afraid of sending a ruthless illustration to the world of how America treats the ‘tired, poor, and huddled masses yearning to breathe free’, destroying the enduring vision of hope the world perceives in the United States of America. H.R. 5230 would spend $694 million in emergency funding through September 30, 2014. But, it would fail to adequately fund overburdened immigration courts and address the root causes of migration from the Central American countries. Instead it directs funding to expand the inhumane practice of family detention and the wasteful and unnecessary involvement of the National Guard. “It is written in Luke 10:25-37 to ‘Love thy neighbor as thyself,’” continued Congressman Bishop. “Rather than protecting vulnerable children who have already endured unspeakable hardship, H.R. 5230 puts immigrant children at risk of further harm by speeding up their removal process and sending them straight back into the clutches of human traffickers, abusive gangs, and drug lord kingpins.” The bill expands funding to U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) for increased detention space, transportation costs, overtime costs, expedited migrant processing, and additional deportation and enforcement personnel, but does not do enough to ensure the health and welfare of the children detained. It also strips the usual human rights conditions and certification requirements placed on the Guatemalan and Honduran militaries with regard to giving financial assistance through the State Department to Central American governments to reintegrate the deported children found ineligible for asylum, among other measures. “Additionally, the draconian measures within H.R. 5230 roll back due process of law, weaken protections against child labor and sex trafficking, and misplace vital resources necessary to be used at the border. Also, by voting to curtail DACA, the Majority Party in Congress is dragging us further and further away from necessary and common-sense immigration reform. I call for regular order and the pursuit of, not just a short-term, but a long-term, compassionate, and comprehensive solution to the crisis at our Southwest border,” concluded Congressman Bishop. Congressman Bishop has supported H.R. 15, the Border Security, Economic Opportunity, and Immigration Modernization Act, a bill to protect the United States against would-be terrorists, secure our borders, and address the 11.5 million undocumented individuals who are now in the United States illegally. The Congressional Budget Office estimates that the companion Senate bill, passed last summer, would reduce the federal deficit by $135 billion over the next ten-year period. Republicans in Congress wrongly blame the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program (DACA) for the recent influx of immigrant children into the United States, when in reality a majority of the children were motivated to migrate because they suffered or faced some type of harm in their homes or community. DACA provides temporary relief from deportation as well as work authorization to over 500,000 ‘DREAMers’ who were brought to the United States as children, many of whom know no other country but the United States as home. These individuals include talented students, hard-working high school graduates, and veterans who pose no threat to public safety. Going after these individuals would consume much-needed resources needed by law enforcement to target those who would do America harm. The U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 5230 by a party-line vote of 223 to 189; H.R 5272 by a vote of 216 to 192. Neither is expected to pass the U.S. Senate. Congressman Bishop voted against both measures. ###
07.31.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) railed against the choice of the Republican Majority in the House of Representatives to focus on debating and passing House Resolution 676, a resolution authorizing the U.S. House to sue the President of the United States: “The needs of our nation demand that the precious little time before the end of session should be used to improve the everyday lives of all Americans, and not waste time over partisan bickering. We should be working in a bipartisan fashion to find logical solutions which might include helping bolster the economy, create jobs, or improve education across the United States. “Of all issues to be addressed, the Republican Majority’s meaningless charade to sue the President of the United States over the success of the Affordable Care Act is among the most wasteful, unfortunate, and indicative of a mired and broken Congress. I will not stand for this partisan grudge match, and frankly, neither should the American people.” Passed along partisan party lines by a vote of 225 to 201, the Republican Lawsuit against President Barack Obama authorizes the Speaker of the House to spend millions of dollars to initiate an unlimited number of frivolous lawsuits on the President, the head of any department or agency, or any other officer or employee of the Executive Branch; add to the already wasted $79 million on more than 50 votes to repeal or undermine the Affordable Care Act; and waste valuable time focusing on political stunts instead of creating jobs or encouraging economic growth. Congressman Bishop voted against the resolution. This effort follows a long list of government waste induced by the Republican Majority in the House of Representatives. Specifically regarding the effort to deny Americans access to affordable health care, the Majority’s fifty votes to repeal the successful law have cost American taxpayers $79 million. The shutdown of the Federal Government cost American taxpayers $24 million. Additionally, it is believed that this effort to sue the President is a first step towards a future impeachment vote in the House of Representatives, a future waste of resources and time in the House of Representatives. ###
07.30.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies, released the following statement after the House passage of the conference report on H.R. 3230, the Veterans’ Access to Care through Choice, Accountability, and Transparency Act of 2014. H.R. 3230 contains provisions that will help provide timely care to veterans, hold the management of the Department of Veterans Affairs accountable, uphold the integrity of the department, and improve education benefits for veterans and their dependants. “Without a doubt, the American people expect and veterans deserve the best service possible and I firmly believe that it is a duty of all of us in Congress to ensure that no one betrays the sacred trust owed to our Veterans. The failure and mismanagement of care for our veterans that has come to light through the IG’s investigation over the past two months must never be repeated, and I trust that this bill will go far to help reverse the failures, and ensure better future treatment of veterans at the VA.” Specific provisions of the conference report include; providing $5 billion to the VA to hire additional physicians and other medical staff, authorizing a system for the VA to fire or demote management level employees for poor performance or misconduct, and increasing access to non-VA care for those veterans in dire need, among other measures. For more information on key provisions in the Veterans’ Access to Care through Choice, Accountability, and Transparency Act of 2014, please click here. Congressman Bishop also submitted a statement to the House record regarding the passage of H.R. 3230. The full text of Congressman Bishop’s statement is included below: Thank you Mr. / Mrs. Speaker. At this time, there is no federal agency more deserving of our attention than the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs. The VA has served generations of heroes who have sacrificed on behalf of our country and we have an obligation to take care of them when they come home. Without a doubt, the American people expect and veterans deserve the best service possible and I firmly believe that it is a duty of all of us in Congress to ensure that no one betrays the sacred trust owed to our Veterans. The failure and mismanagement of care for our veterans that has come to light through the IG’s investigation over the past two months must never be repeated, and I trust that this bill will go far to help reverse the failures, and ensure better future treatment of veterans at the VA. I think this conference report contains provisions that will help provide timely care to veterans, hold the management of the Department of Veterans Affairs accountable, uphold the integrity of the department, and improve education benefits for veterans and their dependants – representing a major step in the right direction in meeting those obligations. Specific measures to do so include; providing $5 billion to the VA to hire additional physicians and other medical staff, authorizing a system for the VA to fire or demote management level employees for poor performance or misconduct, and increasing access to non-VA care for those veterans in dire need. Yesterday, we were greeted with the good news of the Senate confirmation of the new VA Secretary, Robert McDonald. While the Senate acted swiftly on the confirmation of McDonald, I was disappointed to see that the Senate Appropriations Committee Chairwoman was unable to bring the FY 2015 MilCon/VA Appropriations bill to floor due to objections from the Senate Minority. If we truly wanted to get the ball rolling to make the VA better the Senate Minority should allow the bill to come to the floor. Nevertheless, I also have full expectation that with the passage of this conference report it is going to be important that this Congress hold Secretary McDonald and his subordinates fully accountable moving forward. Thank you. ###
07.30.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies, released the following statement congratulating and welcoming the Senate confirmation of Robert McDonald, the new secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). “I congratulate Robert McDonald on his confirmation as Secretary of the VA. Now it’s time to get to work on the laundry list of VA improvements for our veterans. In addition to changing the management culture at the VA and ensuring that veterans get the timely care and consideration to which they are entitled, the VA needs to continue to address veterans’ homelessness, fully develop an integrated DoD-VA Electronic Health Records System, and eliminate the claims backlog for all veterans waiting for the benefits they are due. I look forward to working with Secretary Robert McDonald to address these important issues.” ###
07.23.2014	ALBANY, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement in remembrance of the damage caused by flooding from Tropical Storm Alberto in July of 1994. “It has been twenty years since the Great Flood of 1994, which claimed thirty-one lives and destroyed the homes and livelihoods of thousands of Americans. Memories of this devastating flood still linger in my mind as I consider the pain felt by those who suffered the loss of family, friends, and property. “Despite these hardships, the resilient people of Middle and Southwest Georgia came together as a community to bravely assist in relief efforts; repairing homes, preparing meals, and acting as a listening ear or a shoulder to lean on in a time of great crisis. It was heartwarming to watch our community quickly spring to action and help each other find the essentials—housing, food, and closure—so that we could recover from the flood as quickly as possible.” “Now, two decades later, we must reflect on the rebuilding of our towns, our communities, and our spirits, rejoicing in the gifts God has given us. I am truly proud of the many friends and neighbors whose tenacity ensured that we would continue to strive and remain hopeful even in the darkest of times.” To read more on disaster preparedness, please click here. ###
07.17.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) introduced a resolution in the United States House of Representatives to designate a national “Get Vertical” Day to encourage Americans – especially adults – to incorporate physical activity in their workday so that they may live healthier and more productive lives. “Physical inactivity is responsible for an estimated 1 in 10 deaths each year,” said Congressman Bishop. “A national ‘Get Vertical’ Day is an important first step in spreading awareness about the public health dangers of inactivity and sedentary lifestyles.” The prevalence of obesity has skyrocketed over the last twenty-five years, with over one-third of American adults now classified as obese. The problem is particularly acute for ethnic and racial minorities as well as people with disabilities, who face disproportionately high obesity and diabetes rates. "We have become a sitting-society," said John Robitscher, CEO of the National Association of Chronic Disease Directors. "That puts us all at risk. It is time to stand up, to move, to do whatever we can to get vertical." Despite the growing attention to our nation’s dramatic increase in obesity rates, an overlooked factor is the amount of time Americans spend sitting down. Those working in a corporate environment generally drive to work sitting down, hold meetings sitting down, eat sitting down, work on computers sitting down, and talk on the phone sitting down. Outside of going to the restroom or getting coffee, time sitting down accumulates to over six hours a day, five days a week. In fact, only 22% of Americans report regular sustained physical activity and only 5% of adults achieve the recommended 150 minutes per week of moderate-to-vigorous physical activity. In addition, people with disabilities can experience nearly double the rates of inactivity as people without disabilities. According to the CDC, most adults with disabilities are able to participate in physical activity, yet nearly half of them get no aerobic physical activity. Participating in “active” workplace events, such as walking lunches, standing phone calls, and interactive meetings all are minor behavioral alterations that can have profound health impacts. Indeed, walking 10,000 steps a day leads to a 90% reduction in heart attacks, a 30% to 70% reduction in cancer rates, a 50% reduction in Type 2 diabetes, and a 70% reduction in strokes. “It is time for us to stand up against obesity!” concluded Congressman Bishop. Twenty Representatives have joined Congressman Bishop as original co-sponsors of this resolution: Reps. Bass, Beatty, Butterfield, Carson, Clarke, Clay, Cleaver, Clyburn, Fudge, Hastings, Jeffries, Johnson, Kelly, Lewis, Norton, Rangel, Sewell, Thompson, Wasserman Shultz, and Waters. In addition, the resolution is supported by The National Association of Chronic Disease Directors, Directors of Health Promotion and Education (DHPE), The National Physical Activity Society , The American Association on Health and Disability, the Greater Philadelphia Business Coalition on Health, the North East Texas Public Health District, Hepatitis Foundation International (HFI), International Health, Racquet & Sportsclub Association (IHRSA), National Alliance of State & Territorial AIDS Directors, Partnership to Fight Chronic Disease, Population Health Alliance, Omada Health, Bioscape Digital, and The Lakeshore Foundation. To view a copy of the resolution, please note attached: NationalGetVerticalDayResolution.pdf ###
07.11.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Member of the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement after voting in favor of the Fiscal Year (FY) 2015 Energy and Water Appropriations government spending bill. The measure was approved by a vote of 253 to 170 and now goes on to the Senate for consideration. “This bill prioritizes funding for national nuclear security, finances environmental cleanup activities, supports energy research, and funds the Army Corps of Engineers, positively affecting public safety, job creation, and the economy,” said Congressman Bishop. “Locally, provisions in the bill support various construction efforts in Georgia including the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project, strengthen industries reliant on imports and exports, and provide common-sense solutions to potential issues with the conservation of energy in rural Georgia.” Passage of the FY 2015 Energy and Water Appropriations Act clears all final hurdles presented in the House of Representatives that could stop construction on the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project (SHEP). The bill approves a total of $1,520,000 for construction on SHEP as well as $80,000 and $850,000 for additional projects in the Lower Savannah River Basin and the Richard Russell Dam respectively. Additionally, the bill’s accompanying report includes language affecting the efficiency standards of water heaters. The issue addressed a concern that a Department of Energy proposed change to large-capacity water heater efficiency standards would endanger the long-term sustainability of more than 250 voluntary demand response programs in 34 states. Voluntary demand response programs use large electric resistance water heaters that allow electric cooperatives to reduce demand for electricity during peak hours by remotely turning them off for short periods with no noticeable impact on water temperatures. These peak periods occur when electricity is produced by the most expensive and least efficient generators. The result reduces energy usage during peak consumption hours; improves the integration of renewable energy resources; and lowers energy costs for consumers. Specific language is included within the committee report directing the Department of Energy to work with stakeholders for the purpose of allowing for the continued manufacture and use of grid-enabled water heaters, potentially negating the endangerment to voluntary demand response programs. The FY 2015 Defense Appropriations Act totals $34 billion in discretionary funding, which is $327 million above the President’s request. For more information on funding levels and key provisions in the FY 2015 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill, please click here. ###
07.10.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) was honored for his service to our wounded warriors by being presented a challenge coin by the Wounded Warrior Project® (WPP). The WWP serves injured post-9/11 veterans, service members, and their families through raising awareness and enlisting the public's aid for the needs of injured service members; helping injured service members aid and assist each other; and providing unique, direct programs and services to meet the needs of injured service members. “I am humbled by the presentation of this challenge coin,” said Congressman Bishop. “Supporting the heroes of the U.S. military is a cause near and dear to my heart. The coin will sit proudly in my office, reminding me to continue working for our service members, veterans, and their families.” “We are very happy to recognize Congressman Bishop’s efforts on behalf of our service members and veterans, and look forward to the future of our partnership in service to our wounded warriors,” said Charlie Abell, Executive Vice President of Government Affairs for the Wounded Warrior Project. Executive Vice President of Government Affairs Charlie Abell and Chief of Staff John Molino presented Congressman Bishop with the Wounded Warrior Project Challenge Coin for his longtime support of the project and for his career’s service to veterans. To read more about Congressman Bishop’s work with the Wounded Warrior Project, please click here or here. To view and download a picture of the coin presentation, please click here. ###
07.09.2014	ALBANY, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) welcomed the United States Postal Service’s (USPS) five-year lease renewal of the Albany Post Office located at 345 West Broad Avenue. Congressman Bishop has been actively involved in working with the USPS and the Albany community in keeping this important post office open for the future. "The re-signing of the lease is welcome news to the businesses and residents of Albany that rely on our downtown Post Office," said Congressman Bishop. "I am grateful for everyone that worked to ensure that people in the Albany area are provided the services they need from the United States Postal Service." “I am pleased and excited that the contract for the downtown Post Office has been set and I am grateful and thankful to Congressman Bishop for his work with us on this local issue,” said Dorothy Hubbard, Mayor of Albany. “This is an example of what working together can accomplish. Thanks to Congressman Bishop for taking the lead in ensuring that the United States Postal Service listened to us and heard our concerns.” The USPS has been facing severe financial challenges due to increased electronic communications and required payments in future retiree health benefits, which has resulted in proposals for post office closures around the nation. The Broad Avenue location in Albany is one of the post offices which had been targeted by the USPS for closure. Many Albany leaders and residents argued that closure of the Broad Avenue Post Office would have a detrimental impact on downtown Albany, given its convenient location to local businesses and the historic nature of the building. The USPS signed a one-year lease in September 2013 to remain at the Broad Avenue location. The new lease will last until July 2019. “This was a total team effort that included both local leadership and our Washington delegation of Senator Saxby Chambliss, Senator Johnny Isakson, and a strong lead by Congressman Sanford Bishop!” said Jeff Sinyard, County Commissioner. “We are really pleased that we can now have the Post Office as a more stable tenant,” said Frances Krack, the landlord of the property. “It would have been a disgrace to the integrity of the over 100 year old building to tear out the mail boxes, which have belonged to some families for decades. That was my main concern, disassembling the history that this building stands for.” In March 2013, Congressman Bishop hosted a meeting in his Washington D.C. Office with community leaders from Albany and representatives from the United States Postal Service. To see pictures from this meeting, please click here. For more information regarding Congressman Bishop’s efforts to keep the Albany Post Office open, please click here and here. ###
07.09.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee for Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies released the following statement regarding the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) plan to restructure the office of Medical Inspector: “I applaud the Acting Secretary of Veterans Affairs Sloan Gibson’s announcement to begin restructuring the Office of Medical Inspector. It is important that the VA continues to make headway in improving its management and oversight of the VA’s medical operations. I look forward to working with the new Secretary, once in place, to continue providing our veterans with the best possible service.” For more information regarding the VA’s announcement, please click here. ###
07.03.2014	ALBANY, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released a statement regarding Independence Day. “Throughout the year, Americans show our patriotism in a number of ways, whether by cheering on our team in the World Cup, casting a vote in an election, or simply thanking a service member or veteran for his or her service. And each year, on the Fourth of July, this steadfast patriotism culminates in a tremendous celebration of pride, gratitude and unification. We sing together in harmony the melodies that are representative of American democracy and we join together with friends and family for barbeque and fellowship, for parades and concerts, for a nighttime firework spectacular. “As we hang our red, white and blue bunting and proudly wave our flags to ring in this Independence Day, let us reflect upon the history of struggle, sacrifice and victory of our great nation; let us praise our forefathers for the democratic ideals they instilled in our Constitution; and let us also show appreciation for our service men and women who have and continue to defend the ‘land of the free and the home of the brave.’ I would like to send a warm greeting to these brave service members and their families at home or abroad this Fourth of July and I wish all Americans an enjoyable and safe Independence Day!” ###
07.02.2014	FORT VALLEY, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) is proud to announce that Fort Valley State University in Fort Valley, Georgia has received a grant award totaling $393,684.00 from the National Science Foundation. The award is administered by the Historically Black Colleges and Universities Undergraduate Program (HBCU-UP) through Targeted Infusion Projects. The award will help fund the institution’s Targeted Infusion Project to develop an Applied Statistics minor program within the Department of Mathematics and Computer Science. “I am very grateful for this opportunity extended to Fort Valley State University to provide high quality learning experiences to students,” said Congressman Bishop. “Strengthening the statistics program at FVSU, a historically African-American university, will better equip students to pursue careers in STEM fields, positioning them to become the brightest leaders of tomorrow.” “FVSU currently administers more than $46 million in sponsored funding and so far this year, funding is up 8% over last year,” said Lisa Wilson, Director of the Office of Sponsored Programs at FVSU. “This NSF Targeted Infusion award is another indication that FVSU is excelling in its mission as a research university, attracting more public and private external funding and creating opportunities that are changing lives.” “I am excited about this grant. The proposed minor program in Applied Statistics will change overall student attitude about job markets and will actually broaden job opportunities for students graduating from FVSU with a minor in Applied Statistics,” said Dr. Dawit Aberra, Interim Chair of the Department of Mathematics and Computer Science at FVSU. “It will also increase the number of African Americans represented in the data sciences, and research opportunities that require application of Statistics. The program will be available for all FVSU students enrolled in a STEM discipline and is in line with the university’s mission to increase enrollment and improve academic programs.” By offering a minor in Applied Statistics, the initiative aims to develop students’ statistical knowledge and thinking by developing five new courses in addition to the existing courses. The new curriculum will be further enhanced by peer-to-peer advising, faculty mentorships, and summer research opportunities. ###
07.02.2014	ALBANY, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement regarding the 50th anniversary of the passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964: “Today, we celebrate the passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. After years of struggle, this bill outlawed discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, or national origin, and ended legal racial segregation in our schools, workplaces, and public facilities. As we celebrate the anniversary of this landmark piece of Civil Rights legislation, we must not forget to continue moving forward in the fight for equal rights, here at home and abroad. “A great number of leaders have bravely blazed the trail ahead. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., Dr. Dorothy Height, President Lyndon Johnson, Ms. Rosa Parks and many others whose names have not been recorded but who fought against legalized racism, discrimination, and for equal opportunity. The nation was in turmoil with itself, struggling for a way forward. These visionaries not only ensured our right to stand up, fight for, and dream of a better life for ourselves and generations yet to come, but also served as examples in order for us to rise up and become the future leaders of the movement. “My memories of meeting Dr. King on the campus of Morehouse College are as vivid and real to me today as is the understanding of our need to continue the work he started. His dream was at the forefront of the Civil Rights movement, and inspired this bill which has changed the lives of so many Americans. Now, 50 years later, we have achieved much, but still have so far to go.” Last week, Congressman Bishop attended the Commemoration of the 50th Anniversary of the 1964 Civil Rights Act and Presentation of the Congressional Gold Medal to Dr. and Mrs. King. For a picture of the event, please click here. ###
06.30.2014	ALBANY, GA – Last week, Jason Maxwell, a 15-year U.S. Army veteran, officially joined the office of Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) as a Wounded Warrior Project Alumni Fellow. The Wounded Warrior Project® (WWP) serves injured veterans, service members and their families through a network of programs and services, including the Warriors to Work program, which administers the fellowships. Warriors to Work matches outstanding candidates with a wide variety of employers. “I’m pleased that Warriors to Work selected our office to participate in the Wounded Warrior Project Alumni Fellowship program and we are thrilled to welcome Jason Maxwell to our team,” said Congressman Bishop. “As a medically retired U.S. Army veteran, Jason has a unique understanding of the challenges service members and veterans must face. I am proud to add Jason’s skill set and insights to those of the veterans, military fellow, and reservist on our staff to better serve our constituents in Georgia’s Second Congressional District.” Mr. Maxwell will work in Congressman Bishop’s Albany and Columbus, Georgia offices as a Caseworker, where he will assist with the wide range of requests received from constituents in Georgia’s Second Congressional District. Mr. Maxwell will also serve as a Field Representative, representing Congressman Bishop at meetings and events. Prior to being accepted to the Wounded Warrior Project Alumni Fellowship program, Mr. Maxwell was as a Reconnaissance Scout in the U.S. Army, serving several tours of duty in Iraq. He is medically retired and has since been an advocate for active duty soldiers and veterans who face the same issues he did during his transition from military to civilian life. ###
06.26.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) and Rep. Austin Scott (GA-08) introduced bipartisan legislation which will create Georgia’s first National Park. The bill, the Ocmulgee Mounds National Historical Park Boundary Revision Act of 2014, would expand the boundaries from approximately 700 acres to over 2,000 acres; change the park’s name from “Ocmulgee National Monument” to “Ocmulgee Mounds National Historical Park” in order to increase name recognition and draw additional visitors; and authorize a resources study to expand the park even further and include additional opportunities for hunting, camping, fishing, and other recreational activities. “Georgia’s cultural and archeological heritage runs deep in the red clay of our state,” said Congressman Bishop. “Creation of Georgia’s first National Park here at Ocmulgee Mounds in the Macon-Bibb area will bolster the local economy with additional tourism and help preserve the important legacy of the original inhabitants of our great state.” “Georgia continues to have one of the richest cultural heritages of any state in the country,” said Congressman Scott. “By revising the boundaries of the Ocmulgee National Monument, we can continue to preserve our state’s history so future generations can learn about and enjoy the different cultures that have occupied our land over the years and have made us who we are today.” “This is another game-changing effort for Macon-Bibb County, and this time, it’s one that will provide decades of benefit for our region and the entire state of Georgia,” said Macon-Bibb County Mayor Robert A.B. Reichert. “This is our history, and it’s one that stretches back almost 17,000 years. To have a concerted effort locally get us to this point and then have our legislators work together on this Bill is a testament to our shared community desire and need to protect that history.” "I am very thrilled to see this bill introduced. It fulfills the dream that the people of Macon had back in 1934 when they talked about a 2,000 acre park,” said Superintendent of Ocmulgee National Monument Jim David. “The lands included in this expansion contain important and unique archaeological resources showing the use of this area for over 12,000 years. The support shown for this expansion by not only those in the Macon area but throughout Georgia and across the country including the Muskogee (Creek) Nation in Oklahoma has been exciting to see. Many people have been working on this for years and this step by Congress is tangible progress towards accomplishing our dream.” “Today is a monumental day because this historic conservation effort will be a cultural and economic boon for Middle Georgia and the entire state,” said Brian Adams, Board President of Ocmulgee National Park and Preserve Initiative, the local non-profit that has been leading the advocacy effort for this expansion for more than a decade. “So much work, by some many people, is now coming to fruition, and it is such an honor to be a part of this grand effort. To provide that type of bill in a bi-partisan fashion is something to be proud of. We are so thankful to our legislators in Washington for making this happen!” Due to its rich history and archaeological importance, the future Ocmulgee Mounds National Historical Park deserves to be preserved as a lasting memorial to how individuals relate to the land and other natural resources. Its expansion and improvement would be a fitting tribute to the Native Americans who first came to this historical site during the Paleo-Indian period to hunt Ice Age mammals. The expanded park also will generate much needed tourist revenue for Macon, Georgia and the surrounding areas while educating visitors on the little known fact that different cultures have occupied this land for thousands of years. The mounds and earthlodges that the Mississippians built to serve as formal council chambers when they arrived in Macon around 900 A.D. remain intact for all to see and appreciate. Ocmulgee National Monument was originally authorized by Congress in 1934 to protect lands commonly known as the 'Old Ocmulgee Fields,' upon which certain Indian mounds of great historical importance are located. The role of the Ocmulgee National Monument is to "present a story of many stages of prehistoric cultural development, emphasizing the influences of agriculture, the Mound Builder period, and the relationship of these various cultures to each other and to life today." If the bill is enacted, the monument would be expanded to protect additional cultural and natural resources in the Ocmulgee Old Fields. Property also would be acquired only from willing donors or sellers, subject to the availability of funding. For additional background on the issue and the text of a Congressional letter in support of the measure, please click here. To view the text of the Ocmulgee Mounds National Historical Park Boundary Revision Act of 2014, please click here. ###
06.26.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Member of the House Appropriations Committee, supported a measure to ensure that the United States Postal Service (USPS) provides mail delivery service six days a week. Supported by the National Active and Retired Federal Employees Association, National Association of Letter Carriers, and the National Rural Letter Carriers’ Association, the amendment was successfully attached to the Fiscal Year (FY) 2015 Financial Services government spending bill during the Appropriations Committee mark up. “Six day postal delivery is relied upon by so many segments of our population, especially seniors and those within our rural areas. We must remember that many of our veterans also receive their medication by mail, and without weekend deliveries, we may be forcing our heroes to wait one day too long for life saving medication. I urge my colleagues to support this measure to ensure mail delivery service six days a week.” Congressman Bishop spoke during the mark up in support of this measure. To watch Congressman Bishop’s remarks, please click here. ###
06.19.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Member of the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement after the full Appropriations Committee passed its Fiscal Year (FY) 2015 Energy and Water Appropriations Act. The government spending bill now goes to the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives for its consideration. “This bill prioritizes funding for national nuclear security, finances environmental cleanup activities, supports energy research, and funds the Army Corps of Engineers, positively affecting public safety, job creation, and the economy,” said Congressman Bishop. “Locally, provisions in the bill and report support various construction efforts in Georgia including the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project as well as common-sense solutions to potential issues with the conservation of energy in rural Georgia.” Passage of the FY 2015 Energy and Water Appropriations Act clears all final hurdles presented in the House of Representatives that could stop construction on the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project (SHEP). The bill approves a total of $1,520,000 for construction on SHEP as well as $80,000 and $850,000 for additional projects in the Lower Savannah River Basin and the Richard Russell Dam respectively. Additionally, the bill’s accompanying report includes language affecting the efficiency standards of water heaters. The issue addressed a concern that a Department of Energy proposed change to large-capacity water heater efficiency standards would endanger the long-term sustainability of more than 250 voluntary demand response programs in 34 states. Voluntary demand response programs use large electric resistance water heaters that allow electric cooperatives to reduce demand for electricity during peak hours by remotely turning them off for short periods with no noticeable impact on water temperatures. These peak periods occur when electricity is produced by the most expensive and least efficient generators. The result reduces energy usage during peak consumption hours; improves the integration of renewable energy resources; and lowers energy costs for consumers. Specific language is included within the committee report directing the Department of Energy to work with stakeholders for the purpose of allowing for the continued manufacture and use of grid-enabled water heaters, potentially negating the endangerment to voluntary demand response programs. The FY 2015 Energy and Water Appropriations Act totals $34 billion in discretionary funding, which is $327 million above the President’s request. For more information on funding levels and key provisions in the FY 2015 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill, please click here. ###
06.10.2014	ALBANY, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) is proud to announce the following U.S. Department of Health and Human Services grants awarded to Albany Area Primary Health Care through the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA). One grant will go towards funding primary care provided by the facility and the other will support early prevention programs and medical care for those affected by HIV/AIDS. The money allocated by these grants will allow Albany Area Primary Health Care facilities to continue to provide Southwest Georgia with quality primary medical assistance. “I am very grateful for this opportunity extended to Albany Area Primary Health Care to provide service to all patients of ranging socioeconomic status,” said Congressman Bishop. “I commend the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services for its commitment to supporting community health centers like Albany Area Primary Health Care. Well-funded medical facilities are vital to improving America’s access to reliable health care.” “Grants like these have helped Albany Area Primary Health Care serve over 3 million patients throughout thirty-five years in Southwest Georgia,” said Tary Brown, CEO of Albany Area Primary Health Care. “I am very glad that grants like these will continue to support and develop community health centers for the wellbeing of people in Southwest Georgia as well as across America.” HHS granted $3,550,575.00 dollars for primary care to the community health center which will be allocated among twelve service sites. It also granted $944,652.00 dollars for HIV/AIDS prevention & treatment at the Albany and Thomasville locations. ###
06.10.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Member of the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement after the full Appropriations Committee passed its Fiscal Year (FY) 2015 Defense Appropriations Act. The government spending bill now goes to the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives for its consideration. “Even as our conflicts in Afghanistan and Iraq wind down, new challenges have arisen across the globe that require the United States to remain internationally vigilant and maintain a strong national defense. We have worked with the Department of Defense to adequately supply its vital needs while remaining fiscally responsible. In addition to military defense, the bill’s investments will continue to address sexual assault and suicide within military families, as well as focus efforts on service members’ quality of life after discharge. Our troops, airmen, and marines deserve no less.” Congressman Bishop spoke in favor of an amendment offered by Congressman Jack Kingston (GA-01) supporting the A-10 Thunderbolt II (Warthog) program. “The Department has essentially decided, through its proposed FY 2015 budget, to eliminate half of the A-10 program. By FY 2016 the A-10 program would be fully divested, providing no support for operations, maintenance, training, or flying of the A-10 Thunderbolt mission within the United States Air Force, both active duty and reserve…At Moody Air Force Base in Georgia, which for years I have had the distinct honor of representing, would lose 48 A-10’s which is part of the regular Active Duty Force...[Defunding the program] would create a huge hole in our air defense systems, without any significant replacement to fill that hole.” The A-10 Thunderbolt II, also known as the Warthog, is a twin-engine aircraft that provides close-air support of ground forces such as combat search and rescue and employs a wide variety of conventional munitions, including general purpose bombs. The simple, effective and survivable single-seat aircraft can be used against all ground targets, including tanks and other armored vehicles. The aircraft is currently supporting operations in Afghanistan and Iraq. To watch the Congressman’s remarks supporting the A-10 program, please click here. The Kingston amendment was defeated and not included in the bill. The FY 2015 Defense Appropriations Act totals $490.7 billion in discretionary funding, which is $100 million above the President’s request. For more information on funding levels and key provisions in the FY 2015 Defense Appropriations Bill, please click here. ###
06.06.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement regarding the 70th anniversary of the D-Day landings in Normandy, France on June 6, 1944: “It has been seven decades since more than 150,000 Allied troops landed on the beaches of Normandy, shed their blood on the sands, and fought for freedom and democracy under the deafening crossfire of Axis beach encampments and over the skies of the occupied French countryside. Thousands struggled and paid the ultimate sacrifice in hopes that, one day, we will not have to fight anymore. Without the loyalty and determination of each and every soldier, and of each and every wife, husband, mother, father, brother, and sister who resolutely supported from afar, we would not be enjoying the independence and self-determination we take for granted every day.” “Let this anniversary be yet another reminder of how much gratitude we owe to the armed forces that not only fought against the scourge of tyranny throughout World War II, but have sacrificed in every conflict throughout our nation’s history. Here at home in Georgia, we have the honor of living amongst many servicemen and servicewomen to whom we owe such gratitude. Just yesterday, Fort Benning dedicated one of its halls to one such hero, Command Sergeant Major Frank Plass, for his lifetime achievements and service to our nation during World War II, the Korean War, and the Vietnam War. It is because of the loyalty and determination of Georgians like Sergeant Major Plass that we can all continue to enjoy life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.” “We give our heartfelt gratitude to every former and current member of the Army, Marine Corps, Navy, Air Force, Coast Guard, and Merchant Marines for their service, and say a prayer for the lives of all our Fallen and their families. Their lives and heroism hold a special place in our hearts and will continue to do so for the rest of our days. The service of these often unheralded Americans allows us to live the dream realized by our Founding Fathers. Let us forever remember their tremendous bravery and patriotism, and may God continue to bless our heroes—those of the past and those of today.” ###
06.04.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) issued the following statement regarding the new proposed carbon emission regulations from the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA): “As I have always said, any proposed regulations at both the federal and state levels need to be subject to a cost benefit analysis, be based on sound science, and should just make common sense, in this case ensuring the protection of our environment while not threatening the economy. The proposed EPA regulations limiting carbon dioxide emissions from power plants could have a devastating impact on the economy of the Southeastern United States, which to a large extent relies on coal-based fuel for much of its energy needs. At the same time, we have only one environment. “At first glance, I am deeply concerned that states like Georgia may face a disproportionate burden in complying with these proposed regulations. Without the proper vetting and feedback, the EPA’s proposed regulations’ ultimate impact could be the reduction of energy generation, higher energy prices for consumers, the closure of power plants, and the loss of thousands of jobs. The resulting increased demand for natural gas will potentially drive up the cost of nitrogen fertilizers utilized in growing crops, thereby increasing the cost of food we buy at the grocery store. Additionally, the guidelines may extend reduction measures beyond the Clean Air Act requirements, potentially infringing upon states’ rights and their decision making process for energy production. “Last month, I signed a letter to EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy requesting that she extend the comment period for this rule to 120 days, given the significant impact it could have across the nation. I believe that stakeholders both in support and in opposition to the proposed rule should take the opportunity to weigh in with their comments. Feedback to the EPA will assist ensure that energy will continue to be provided to our businesses and families in a safe, affordable, and environmentally responsible manner.” To comment on the Environmental Protection Agency’s potential rule, please click here. ###
05.30.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies, issued the following statement regarding the resignation of Department of Veterans Affairs Secretary Eric Shinseki: “Without a doubt, General Eric Shinseki is a fine man with a great record of service to this country. As Ranking Member of the Appropriations Subcommittee working with the Department of Veterans Affairs, I am grateful for the positive accomplishments Secretary Shinseki brought to the Department and wish him well in all his future endeavors. Through his work at the VA, over 2 million new veterans enrolled in health care; spending on mental health issues, suicide prevention, and treatment of post-traumatic stress substantially increased; rates of veteran unemployment and homelessness were cut; an emphasis was placed on improving women’s care; and the VA disabilities claims backlog was reduced by more than 50%. “While I regret that these dire circumstances have brought about this resignation, it is important to be mindful of the issues which the Department of Veterans Affairs still faces. No matter who is at the helm of the Department of Veterans Affairs, the American people expect and veterans deserve the best service possible. In addition to completing and acting upon the ongoing IG investigation and recommendations regarding the management of the hospital system, this service from the VA includes continuing to address veterans’ homelessness, full development of an integrated DoD-VA Electronic Health Records System, and eliminating the claims backlog for all veterans waiting for the benefits they are due. I look forward to working with Acting Secretary Sloan Gibson to address these important issues, as highlighted in a letter sent today from Subcommittee Chairman John Culberson and me.” To view the letter, please click here. Retired U.S. Army General Eric K. Shinseki was nominated by President Barack Obama on December 7, 2008 to serve as Secretary of Veterans Affairs. Before his nomination, Secretary Shinseki served as Chief of Staff, United States Army, from 1999 to 2003, and retired from active duty on August 1, 2003. During his tenure, he initiated the Army Transformation Campaign to address both the emerging strategic challenges of the early 21st century and the need for cultural and technological change in the United States Army. Following the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, he led the Army during Operations Enduring Freedom and Iraqi Freedom and integrated the pursuit of the Global War on Terrorism with Army Transformation. Prior to becoming the Army’s Chief of Staff, Eric Shinseki served as Vice Chief of Staff, Commanding General of the U.S. Army and NATO Land Forces, Central Europe, and has been awarded numerous medals of distinguished service and merit for his service to the nation in the United States Army. ###
05.30.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies, released the following statement after the full Appropriations Committee passed its Fiscal Year (FY) 2015 government spending bill by a vote of 31 to 18. “While not a perfect bill, the Agriculture government spending bill passed by the Appropriations Committee is boon for Georgia and our strong agriculture industry,” said Congressman Bishop. “In addition to billions of dollars allotted to rural development and Land Grant universities across the country like the University of Georgia and Fort Valley State University, the bill will also invest $155 million in a new USDA Poultry Research Facility in Georgia.” The bill totals $20.9 billion in discretionary funding, which is $500 million above the President’s request, and equal to the fiscal year 2014 enacted level. Including both discretionary and mandatory funding for various nutrition programs, the overall bill totals $142.5 billion. For more information on the FY 2015 impact on pecans and other tree nuts, please click here. “Unfortunately, as with many legislative compromises, this bill falls short within certain areas. For example, if signed into law, school districts will be able to request an exemption waiver from healthy school lunch standards for our children,” added Bishop. “All other points aside, as an issue of national security, I am concerned that our decreasing national health may render our nation too fat to fight in the upcoming years. This must be addressed.” According to Mission: Readiness, a non-partisan organization of senior retired military leaders, 75% of all young Americans between the ages of 17 and 24 are unable to join the military because they are medically or physically unfit, are too poorly educated, or have disqualifying criminal records. Every year, the military discharges over 1,200 first-term enlistees before their contracts are up due to weight problems. The military must then recruit and train their replacements at a cost of $75,000 per person, totaling roughly $90 million annually. This pales in comparison to the estimated $1.1 billion per year that the Department of Defense spends on medical care associated with excess fat and obesity through TRICARE. For more information on funding levels and key provisions in the FY 2015 Agriculture Appropriations Bill, please click here. ###
05.30.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies, gave his congratulations to Dr. Fred Harrison on his appointment as the new Georgia State Director of the Farm Service Agency (FSA): “I am delighted to congratulate Dr. Fred Harrison on his appointment as the next State Director for the Georgia Farm Service Agency! Fred’s experience at the Fort Valley State University as the Dean Emeritus of the College of Agriculture and as the Administrator/Director of the Cooperative Extension Program will serve him well as he takes the helm as Georgia’s FSA State Director. Lauded by the University of Georgia’s College of Agriculture and Environmental Sciences Alumni Association and a leader on the Georgia Rural Development Council, I have every confidence that Fred will perform admirably in this important position supporting the farmers who depend on the services provided by the State Farm Service Agency.” ###
05.30.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. — The Corporation for National and Community Service (CNCS) recently announced that 256 AmeriCorps VISTA members will be placed in six Southern states, including Georgia, to connect approximately 18,000 at-risk students in low-performing schools to Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) opportunities. By serving through community groups, educational institutions, and corporate sponsors, the AmeriCorps servicemen and servicewomen will spark greater student interest in STEM fields and provide opportunities these students may not otherwise have. The announcement was made at the White House Science Fair, building upon the President’s launch of STEM AmeriCorps at the same event last year. The states that will be participating in this program with Georgia include Alabama, Florida, Mississippi, South Carolina, and West Virginia. By renewing interest in STEM subjects, the initiative will help Georgia students move to the top of the pack in science and math achievement and take advantage of the growing number of jobs requiring STEM skills. Created in 1993, AmeriCorps is one of CNCS’s largest programs and engages more than 80,000 Americans in intensive service projects year after year. The expansion of STEM AmeriCorps will advance national priority to spur greater interest by K-12 students in STEM professions. To learn more the STEM AmeriCorps expansion, please click here. ###
05.30.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture and Co-Chairman of the Congressional Peanut Caucus heralded the passage of the Fiscal Year (FY) 2015 Agriculture Appropriations government spending bill out of the full committee, claiming a win for the pecan and other tree nut industries. As passed, the bill ensures that no unnecessary requirements or harmful regulations will be placed on the industries, allowing growers, shellers, and harvesters to continue business as usual: “We are pleased that the U.S. House Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Subcommittee accepted Congressman Sanford Bishop’s language encouraging FDA to remove tree nuts from the Food Safety Modernization Act provisions,” said Hilton Segler, Executive Director of National Pecan Growers Council. “While a lot of our crops come from other countries, pecans are native to the United States and should be considered a national treasure. It is also important to note that pecans are safe and have no history of food safety issues.” “Recent proposed FDA regulations could have prohibited the harvesting and marketing of pecans where livestock or animals, like deer or squirrels, have lived,” said Dr. Randy Hudson, Vice-President of the National Pecan Growers Council and Past-President of the Georgia Pecan Growers Association. “The Georgia and US Pecan Industries are very thankful for the efforts that Congressman Sanford Bishop has made to insure that the farmers and homeowners with pecan trees can continue to market their pecans.” “We appreciate Congressman Sanford Bishop’s leadership role and his efforts to remove tree nuts from the Food Safety Modernization Act provisions,” said Brad Ellis, President of the Georgia Pecans Growers Association. “We are pleased that the U.S. House Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Subcommittee has accepted Congressman Bishop’s recommendation to encourage the FDA in this matter. Georgia Pecan Growers thank Congressman Bishop for his leadership on the subcommittee and knowledge of our industry.” Concluded Congressman Bishop, “Considering how important pecans and other tree nuts are to the economy of Georgia and America’s agriculture industry, I would be nutty not to support this effort any way I can!” Georgia is the largest pecan producing state, accounting for approximately one third of all pecans produced in the United States. Additionally, the United States produces more than 80% of the world’s pecans, with large Georgia exports going to China and India. With Georgia supplying 65% of United States’ pecan exports, support for this market assists the flow of millions of dollars in revenue for Georgia and the entire United States pecan industry. The full text of the provision can be found below: Regulation of Tree Nuts. – The Committee urges FDA to consider the exemption of tree nut producers from regulation under section 419 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act if such tree nuts meet the criteria for “rarely consumed raw” and the recipient of the produce performs commercial processing that adequately reduces pathogens as described in the proposed regulation “Standards for the Growing, Harvesting, Packing, and Holding of Produce for Human Consumption; Proposed Rule”. ###
05.29.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture and Co-Chairman of the Congressional Peanut Caucus heralded the passage of the Fiscal Year (FY) 2015 Agriculture Appropriations government spending bill out of the full committee, claiming a win for the pecan and other tree nut industries. As passed, the bill ensures that no unnecessary requirements or harmful regulations will be placed on the industries, allowing growers, shellers, and harvesters to continue business as usual: “We are pleased that the U.S. House Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Subcommittee accepted Congressman Sanford Bishop’s language encouraging FDA to remove tree nuts from the Food Safety Modernization Act provisions,” said Hilton Segler, Executive Director of National Pecan Growers Council. “While a lot of our crops come from other countries, pecans are native to the United States and should be considered a national treasure. It is also important to note that pecans are safe and have no history of food safety issues.” “Recent proposed FDA regulations could have prohibited the harvesting and marketing of pecans where livestock or animals, like deer or squirrels, have lived,” said Dr. Randy Hudson, Vice-President of the National Pecan Growers Council and Past-President of the Georgia Pecan Growers Association. “The Georgia and US Pecan Industries are very thankful for the efforts that Congressman Sanford Bishop has made to insure that the farmers and homeowners with pecan trees can continue to market their pecans.” “We appreciate Congressman Sanford Bishop’s leadership role and his efforts to remove tree nuts from the Food Safety Modernization Act provisions,” said Brad Ellis, President of the Georgia Pecans Growers Association. “We are pleased that the U.S. House Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Subcommittee has accepted Congressman Bishop’s recommendation to encourage the FDA in this matter. Georgia Pecan Growers thank Congressman Bishop for his leadership on the subcommittee and knowledge of our industry.” Concluded Congressman Bishop, “Considering how important pecans and other tree nuts are to the economy of Georgia and America’s agriculture industry, I would be nutty not to support this effort any way I can!” Georgia is the largest pecan producing state, accounting for approximately one third of all pecans produced in the United States. Additionally, the United States produces more than 80% of the world’s pecans, with large Georgia exports going to China and India. With Georgia supplying 65% of United States’ pecan exports, support for this market assists the flow of millions of dollars in revenue for Georgia and the entire United States pecan industry. The full text of the provision can be found below: Regulation of Tree Nuts – The Committee urges FDA to consider the exemption of tree nut producers from regulation under section 419 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act if such tree nuts meet the criteria for “rarely consumed raw” and the recipient of the produce performs commercial processing that adequately reduces pathogens as described in the proposed regulation “Standards for the Growing, Harvesting, Packing, and Holding of Produce for Human Consumption; Proposed Rule”. ###
05.28.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement regarding the passing of Dr. Maya Angelou; iconic author, poet, and activist: “Maya Angelou was an icon for our age; a powerful author and poet, a unique artist and performer, and a celebrated activist and humanitarian. While her eloquence and presence will be missed by millions, ‘A great soul never dies. It brings us together again and again.’ Her impact of service and influence on our era will endure for many decades to come, continually bringing us back together again and again. My heartfelt thoughts and prayers go out to her friends and family during this difficult period of loss.” ###
05.27.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement regarding the upcoming Memorial Day on Monday, May 26, 2014: “We come together this Memorial Day to remember the men and women – husbands and wives, mothers and fathers, sons and daughters – who exemplified the true definition of selflessness by living and dying in service to America. While the debt owed to these men and women is immeasurable, it is our duty to preserve their enduring legacy. We treasure the lives of our fallen – of our soldiers, sailors, airmen, Marines, and Coast Guardsmen – who have paid the ultimate price for our personal liberties, and we join their families in asking God for the peace for which they so nobly risked their lives.” “Whether at the office, sanctuary, or dinner table, we must join together this Memorial Day to reflect upon the countless contributions and sacrifices of those who have perished protecting our liberties; they will forever hold a special place in our hearts. Our brave service members battle each day so we can live the American dream, and so we too must also fight to ensure our Veterans and military families receive the proper care and treatment they truly deserve.” “Today, we keep in mind all of those who offered the last full measure of devotion on behalf of you and me and our American brothers and sisters. The noble contributions of these men and women are the ultimate expression of patriotism, and our democracy endures because of them. Let us remember all of our days those who have served our country with heroism – with tremendous bravery and gallantry – so we may live so freely. May God continue to bless our men and women in uniform, and may God continue to bless Middle and Southwest Georgia.” ###
05.22.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee for Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies issued the following statement regarding this morning comments by the President regarding the issue of the Inspector General investigation and individual audits being conducted at the Department of Veterans Affairs in response to recent reports of delayed service for veterans and hidden waiting lists: “In response to the President’s remarks today, while it is still not clear who, or what, is at fault for these grave allegations, I still firmly believe that it is a duty of Congress to ensure that no one betrays the sacred trust owed to our Veterans. If the Inspector General finds that VA personnel are guilty of systemic negligence and oversight malfeasance I expect strong and swift action to rectify the problem! While we await the results of the Inspector General’s investigation, Congress must continue to monitor this situation closely. In the meantime, immediate steps must be taken to assure that no veteran is currently being victimized by any such policy of denial of appropriate diagnostic tests nor delays in scheduling of appointments.” ###
05.20.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) proudly heralded the win for the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project (SHEP) as the full United States House of Representatives approved by a vote of 412 to 4 the conference report to H.R. 3080, the Water Resources Reform and Development Act of 2014 (WRRDA). The conference report fully authorizes all components of the $706 million Savannah Harbor Expansion Project, which involves the deepening of 30 miles of the Savannah River to improve shipping access to the Savannah Harbor. It also clears the way for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to enter into an agreement with the State of Georgia to accelerate the construction timetable. The United States Senate is expected to approve the bill by the end of this week and send it to the President for his signature. “In addition to improving access to vital waterways, WRRDA will create jobs and boost our economy by opening access to vital infrastructure projects across the country,” said Congressman Bishop. “Dredging of the Savannah River is long overdue, and now that the WRRDA conference port has passed through the House of Representatives, the Savannah Port is one step closer to being the major driver of statewide economic development that we have been working towards!” The WRRDA conference report strengthens our water transportation networks to promote competitiveness, prosperity, and economic growth. WRRDA contains no earmarks and makes major reforms to increase transparency, accountability, and Congressional oversight in reviewing and prioritizing future water resources development activities. The WRRDA conference report authorizes the construction of 34 U.S. Army Corps of Engineers water resource related projects; establishes new processes for water selection, permitting, and project de-authorization; encourages non-federal participation in developing water infrastructure by establishing a pilot program for private-public partnerships; and other measures. The legislation also includes bipartisan-sponsored language concerning the Apalachicola-Chattahoochee-Flint River System and the Alabama-Coosa-Tallapoosa River Systems, urging the Governors of Georgia, Florida, and Alabama to reach an agreement on an interstate waters compact as soon as possible, and pledging Congress’ assistance to the affected states to ensure prompt consideration and approval of any such agreement. BILL HIGHLIGHTS: Reforms Bureaucracy, Accelerates Project Delivery, and Streamlines Environmental Reviews Sets hard deadlines on the time and cost of studies Consolidates or eliminates duplicative or unnecessary studies Streamlines environmental reviews and improves coordination Fiscally Responsible Deauthorizes $18 billion of old, inactive projects that were authorized prior to WRRDA 2007 More than fully offsets authorizations with deauthorizations Phases out new authorizations to prevent future project backlogs Reduces the inventory of properties that are not needed for the missions of the Corps Strengthens Oversight, Transparency, and Accountability No earmarks Establishes a new, transparent process for future bills to review and prioritize water resources development activities with strong Congressional oversight Increases Flexibility for Non-Federal Interests and Leverages Private Sector Investments to Multiply the Effect of Federal Funding Maximizes the ability of non-federal interests to contribute their own funds to move studies and projects forward Expands the ability of non-federal interests to contribute funds to speed up the evaluation and processing of permits Establishes a Water Infrastructure Public Private Partnership Program and new options to expand the local role in project implementation Creates innovative methods to invest in and finance water resources infrastructure and municipal drinking water and wastewater Strengthens Safety and Protects Communities Strengthens dam and levee safety Improves Army Corps of Engineers responses to extreme weather events Encourages resilient construction techniques and the use of durable, sustainable, and innovative materials Improves Competitiveness, Creates Jobs, and Strengthens Water Resources Infrastructure Authorizes needed investment in America’s ports, strengthens ports that move the majority of the Nation’s commerce, and ensures equity for those ports that contribute the most to the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund Supports underserved, emerging ports Reforms and preserves the Inland Waterways Trust Fund Authorizes priority water resources infrastructure improvements recommended to Congress by the Chief of the Army Corps of Engineers to improve navigation and commerce and address flood risk management, hurricane and storm damage risk reduction, and environmental restoration needs For more information about the Water Resources Reform and Development Acts, please click here. ###
05.15.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee for Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies expressed outrage at the allegations levied against the Department of Veterans Affairs claiming that administrative cost-cutting led to denials in service to veterans: “First off, it is indisputable that the VA has been provided ample resources to cover the needs for the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). Even during these times of austerity the VA has seen healthy increases in its funding for the care of our Veterans. Frankly, I do not know who, or what, is at fault for these grave allegations, however, I believe that it is a duty of Congress to ensure that no one betrays the sacred trust owed to our Veterans. If the Inspector General finds that VA personnel are guilty of systemic negligence and oversight malfeasance I expect strong and swift action to rectify the problem! In the meantime our subcommittee must monitor this situation closely and await the results of the forthcoming Inspector General Investigation. However, immediate steps must be taken to assure that no veteran is currently being victimized by any such policy of denial of appropriate diagnostic tests nor delays in scheduling of appointments.” ###
05.12.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) condemned the abduction of hundreds of Nigerian school girls by the terrorist group Boko Haram by joining in cosponsoring a bipartisan House Resolution and releasing the following statement: “All women and girls, whether they live in northern Nigeria or middle and southwest Georgia, should have safe access to education without fear of violence. Not only is this particular instance of human trafficking heartbreaking and disturbing, but also a strong reminder of the duty the international community holds in supporting the universal right to a just life, free from persecution and discrimination. I fully support holding terrorist organizations like Boko Haram accountable, and encourage the Department of State and USAID to continue their support for initiatives that promote the human rights of women and girls in Nigeria.” Currently, H.RES.573 has 60 cosponsors. To read the text of the resolution, please click here. ###
05.07.2014	ALBANY, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) is proud to announce the following U.S. Department of Health and Human Services grant awarded to Albany State University (ASU) through the National Institute of Health (NIH). Through the Understanding Non-Covalent Interaction in Carbon Nanotube/Anticancer Drug Conjugate project, Dr. Yixuan Wang and ASU students will research anti-cancer drug resistance. “I am very grateful for this opportunity extended to Albany State University to continue the advancement of vital cancer research,” said Congressman Bishop. “I commend the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services for its commitment to medical research and support of academic institutions like ASU, a historically African-American university. Well-funded research facilities are vital to improving America’s cancer research portfolio.” “It is important to note that the NIH recognizes the significance of the type of anti-cancer research that Dr. Wang is doing here at ASU. Being federally funded brings universities like Albany State University to the forefront of cutting edge research,” said Chanta Haywood, Interim Vice President for Institutional Advancement Research. “Medical research like this project will benefit the people of Southwest Georgia and America, as well as the International community.” HHS granted $105,160 dollars for the project. It will fund advanced medical research and will also provide resources for ASU to teach and train students for future projects. The university hopes that grants like this will continue to promote innovative research at minority institutions such as Albany State University. ###
05.02.2014	ALBANY, GA— The U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) recently announced small businesses, small agricultural cooperatives, small businesses engaged in aquaculture, and most private non-profit organizations of all sizes within the 2nd Congressional District of Georgia that May 27, 2014 is the filing deadline for federal economic injury disaster loans as a result of excessive rain that began on April 1, 2013. The loans are for working capital and can be up to $2 million with interest rates of 4 percent for eligible small businesses and 2.875 percent for non-profit organizations, and terms up to 30 years. The loans are available in the following counties Baker, Bibb, Calhoun, Chattahoochee, Crawford, Decatur, Dooley, Daugherty, Early, Grady, Lee, Macon, Marion, Miller, Mitchell, Peach, Schley, Seminole, Sumter, Talbot, Taylor, and Webster counties Under this declaration, the SBA’s Economic Injury Disaster Loan program is available to eligible farm-related and nonfarm-related entities that suffered financial losses as a direct result of this disaster. Applicants may apply online using the Electronic Loan Application (ELA) via SBA’s secure website athttps://disasterloan.sba.gov/ela. Completed loan applications must be returned to SBA no later than May 27, 2014. To learn more about the application process for FSA disaster assistance loans for farmers, please click here.
05.02.2014	ALBANY, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) announced the winners of the 2014 Congressional Art Competition. The very talented Savana Harris, from Lee County High School in Leesburg, Georgia, won first place in this year’s competition. Her beautiful piece of artwork entitled “Keeping Identity” was done in graphite and will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year. “The level of creativity and dedication demonstrated by students was very impressive. I am proud of all the artists that took part in this year’s Congressional Art Competition and I would like to commend the outstanding work that our schools are doing to enable young people to realize their potential,” said Congressman Bishop. “The judges had a difficult job in picking a winner this year, but I am happy to congratulate Ms. Savana Harris as the first place award recipient and look forward to unveiling her piece of artwork in the U.S. Capitol next month.” The competition was open to high school students from Georgia’s Second Congressional District. The works of art were judged by a panel of two independent judges: Mr. John DiMino, Asst. Professor/Art Director at Darton State College; and Art Instructor Michael Mallard, also from the Darton State College Art Department. Since 1982, the Congressional Institute has sponsored a nationwide high school visual art competition each spring to recognize and encourage artistic talent across the nation. Each participating Member of Congress selects a winner from his or her Congressional district and the artwork is displayed in the United States Capitol for one year. First Place Savana Harris Lee County High School (Leesburg, GA) Graphite – “Keeping Identity” Second Place Ronnita Whipple Central High School (Macon, GA), 12th Grade Untitled Third Place Abbie Hutchins Deerfield-Windsor (Albany, GA), 12th Grade Colored Pencil– “Scarf Girl” Honorable Mention Cheyenne Brown Lee County High School (Leesburg, GA) Colored Pencil– “Our Country”
04.29.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies, issued the following statement regarding the passage of H.R.4486, the Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies 2015 government spending bill. H.R. 4486 passed 416 to 1 and now goes on to the Senate for debate. “Today, the House of Representatives put aside its differences and came together to strengthen the well-being of our military, our veterans, and the families who sacrifice so much to defend our country.” “Reaching across the aisle, we have crafted a bill that will address the funding needs for military construction and family housing for our troops and their families as well as other quality of life construction projects. A true bipartisan effort, I am pleased that our bill provides $6.5 billion in military construction for military family housing, medical facilities, NATO, chemical demilitarization construction, as well as for Guard and Reserve facilities around the country. “Additionally, it will provide $158.2 billion for the Veterans Administration, assuring that all areas of administrative expenses, research, medical care, information technology, and facilities will be adequately funded, allowing our Veterans to receive the highest quality of care. All told, the bill before us today touches every soldier, sailor, Marine, airman as well as military families and veterans that participate in VA programs. “Specifically regarding the issue of the veteran’s clams backlog, though the VA has made significant progress, the fact that there are still over 300,000 cases currently in backlog means it’s still a major national issue. While I continue to be frustrated with the backlog itself, I am hopeful that the additional $20 million in additional funding to the Veterans Benefit Administration (VBA) for the digital scanning of health and benefits files will reinforce the $173.3 million already allocated to the Veterans Benefits Management System, helping the VA reach its goal to end the claims backlog in 2015.” In his capacity as the Ranking Member, Congressman Bishop has worked with Chairman John Culberson (R-TX) to usher this traditionally bipartisan bill through the legislative process, continuing the ongoing commitment to our nation’s service members, veterans, and their families without compromising on necessary resources for services, benefits, and construction. In addition to determining funding levels for Veterans Affairs, this bill has regularly funded construction activity at Fort Benning, Robins Air Force Base, and the Marine Corps Logistics Base Albany. The FY 2015 MilCon/VA spending bill is the first appropriations bill to be considered by the House of Representatives during the 2014 appropriations season. Below is a list of highlights of funding levels and other key provisions in the Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies Bill: BACKGROUND: For more information regarding the FY 2015 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Mark-Up, please click here. The bill totals $71.499 billion – $1.8 billion below the fiscal year 2014 level and $397 million below the President’s budget request. The decrease is primarily due to declining need for new military construction projects. 2014 Enacted: $73.299 billion President's Request: $71.897 billion Committee Mark: $71.499 billion MILCON/VA IN GEORGIA: Defense-Wide $7.692 million for Hunter Army Airfield’s SOF Company Operations Facility; $19.9 million for Robins Air Force Base to replace a Hydrant Fuel System; Air Force Reserve $27.7 million to Robins Air Force Base and Phase 1 of AFRC Consolidated Mission Complex; Military Construction: The bill provides a total of $6.557 billion for military construction projects – a decrease of $3.3 billion below the enacted fiscal year 2014 level, and the same as the President’s request. The funding provided will be used for large and small construction and renovation projects on military bases within the U.S. and around the globe. Military Family Housing –The bill provides $1.190 billion to fund construction, operation and maintenance of military family housing for fiscal year 2015. This is $325 million below the fiscal year 2014 level, due to savings from the privatization of family housing, a reduced need for new facilities, and no construction funding requests by the Air Force. The funding provided will ensure quality housing is continued for all 1,231,044 military families currently served by the program. Military Medical Facilities – The bill includes $485.9 million for construction and alterations for new or existing military medical facilities. This funding will allow for continued support and care for 9.8 million eligible beneficiaries, including our wounded troops abroad. Department of Defense (DOD) Education Facilities –The bill includes $394 million for essential safety improvements and infrastructure work at seven DOD Education Activities facilities located within the U.S. and overseas. Guard and Reserve – The bill includes $426.5 million for construction or alteration of Guard and Reserve facilities in 17 states. Veterans Affairs (VA): The legislation includes a total of $158.21 billion in both discretionary and mandatory funding for the Department of Veterans Affairs, an increase of $10.3 billion above the fiscal year 2014 level. This funding will help provide our nation’s veterans with the services and care they have earned from their dedicated service to the country. Discretionary funding alone for Veterans programs in the bill is $64.7 billion. Approximately $55.6 billion of this discretionary total was provided last year via advance funding in the fiscal year 2014 Appropriations bill. VA Medical Services –The bill funds VA medical services at $45 billion – providing for approximately 6.7 million patients to be treated in fiscal year 2015. Within this total, funding includes: $7.2 billion in mental health care services; $133 million in suicide prevention activities; $229 million for traumatic brain injury treatment; $7.4 billion in homeless veterans treatment, services, housing, and job training; and $250 million in rural health initiatives. VA Electronic Health Record – The bill contains $344 million for the modernization of the Veterans Affairs electronic health record system. To help ensure our veterans get proper care through the timely and accurate exchange of medical data between VA, DOD, and the private sector, the bill includes language restricting funding until the VA demonstrates progress on the system’s functionality and interoperability. In the aftermath of the DOD and VA decision not to pursue a single integrated health record, it becomes doubly important to ensure that the two health records are designed in a way that permits interoperability between the two systems. Disability Claims Processing Backlog – The bill provides $173.3 million for the paperless claims processing system and an increase of $20 million additional funding above the request for digital scanning of health records, centralized mail, and overtime to end the backlog in disability compensation claims by 2015. In addition, rigorous reporting requirements to track the performance of each regional office on claims processing are continued. Construction – Major and minor construction within the VA is funded at approximately $1.057 billion. The bill does not provide funding for major new hospital construction projects, but allows the VA to continue to correct safety issues and deficiencies, and make patient care improvements at several facilities. VA Mandatory Funding – The bill fulfills mandatory funding requirements such as: veteran disability compensation programs for 4.6 million veterans and their survivors; education benefits for more than one million veterans; and vocational rehabilitation and employment training for more than 130,000 veterans. Oversight –The legislation includes provisions to increase oversight of taxpayer dollars at the VA, including requiring the agency to report on construction expenditures and savings, forbidding new changes in the scope of construction projects, and restricting the agency from taking certain spending actions without notifying Congress. Advance Appropriations for Veterans Medical Programs – The bill contains $58.7 billion in advance fiscal year 2016 funding for the VA – the same level as the President’s request. This funding will provide for medical services, medical support and compliance, and medical facilities, and ensure that our veterans have continued, full access to their medical care needs. Arlington National Cemetery – The legislation includes $62 million for the Arlington National Cemetery, a decrease of $4 million from the fiscal year 2014 enacted level. For more information on funding levels and other key provisions in the Military Construction, Veterans Affairs Bill, please click here.
04.16.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs (VA), and Related Agencies, released the following statement after the Subcommittee reported its Fiscal Year (FY) 2015 Appropriations bill to the full House Appropriations Committee. “I am pleased that our bill provides $6.5 billion in military construction for military family housing, medical facilities, NATO, chemical demilitarization construction, the Defense Base Closure and Realignment Commission, as well as for Guard and Reserve facilities around the country. I am also pleased that our bill provides $158.2 billion for the Veterans Administration, assuring that all areas of administrative expenses, research, medical care, information technology, and facilities will be adequately funded, allowing our Veterans to receive the highest quality of care.” “Regarding the issue of veteran’s backlog, though the VA has made significant progress, the fact that there are still over 300,000 cases currently in backlog means it’s still a major national issue. While I continue to be frustrated with the backlog itself, I am hopeful that the additional $20 million on top of the already allocated $173.3 million will help the VA reach its goal to end the backlog in 2015.” The legislation is the first appropriations bill reported to the full committee this year. Below is a list of highlights of funding levels and other key provisions in the Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies Bill: Bill Highlights: The bill totals $71.5 billion – $1.8 billion below the fiscal year 2014 level and $398 million below the President’s budget request. The decrease is primarily due to declining need for new military construction projects. 2014 Enacted: $73.299 billion President's Request: $71.897 billion Committee Mark: $71.499 billion MILCON/VA IN GEORGIA: Defense-Wide $7.692 million for Hunter Army Airfield’s SOF Company Operations Facility; $19.9 million for Robins Air Force Base to replace a Hydrant Fuel System; Air Force Reserve $27.7 million to Robins Air Force Base and Phase 1 of AFRC Consolidated Mission Complex; Military Construction: The bill provides a total of $6.6 billion for military construction projects – a decrease of $3.3 billion below the enacted fiscal year 2014 level, and the same as the President’s request. The funding provided will be used for large and small construction and renovation projects on military bases within the U.S. and around the globe. Military Family Housing –The bill provides $1.2 billion to fund construction, operation and maintenance of military family housing for fiscal year 2015. This is $325 million below the fiscal year 2014 level, due to savings from the privatization of family housing, a reduced need for new facilities, and no construction funding requests by the Air Force. The funding provided will ensure quality housing is continued for all 1,231,044 military families currently served by the program. Military Medical Facilities – The bill includes $485.9 million for construction and alterations for new or existing military medical facilities. This funding will allow for continued support and care for 9.8 million eligible beneficiaries, including our wounded troops abroad. Department of Defense (DOD) Education Facilities –The bill includes $394 million for essential safety improvements and infrastructure work at seven DOD Education Activities facilities located within the U.S. and overseas. Guard and Reserve – The bill includes $426.5 million for construction or alteration of Guard and Reserve facilities in 17 states. Veterans Affairs (VA): The legislation includes a total of $158.2 billion in both discretionary and mandatory funding for the Department of Veterans Affairs, an increase of $10.3 billion above the fiscal year 2014 level. This funding will help provide our nation’s veterans with the services and care they have earned from their dedicated service to the country. Discretionary funding alone for Veterans programs in the bill is $64.7 billion. Approximately $55.6 billion of this discretionary total was provided last year via advance funding in the fiscal year 2014 Appropriations bill. VA Medical Services –The bill funds VA medical services at $45 billion – providing for approximately 6.7 million patients to be treated in fiscal year 2015. Within this total, funding includes: $7.2 billion in mental health care services; $133 million in suicide prevention activities; $229 million for traumatic brain injury treatment; $7.4 billion in homeless veterans treatment, services, housing, and job training; and $250 million in rural health initiatives. VA Electronic Health Record – The bill contains $344 million for the modernization of the Veterans Affairs electronic health record system. To help ensure our veterans get proper care through the timely and accurate exchange of medical data between VA, DOD, and the private sector, the bill includes language restricting funding until the VA demonstrates progress on the system’s functionality and interoperability. In the aftermath of the DOD and VA decision not to pursue a single integrated health record, it becomes doubly important to ensure that the two health records are designed in a way that permits interoperability between the two systems. Disability Claims Processing Backlog – The bill provides $173 million for the paperless claims processing system and an increase of $20 million above the request for digital scanning of health records, centralized mail, and overtime to end the backlog in disability compensation claims by 2015. In addition, rigorous reporting requirements to track the performance of each regional office on claims processing are continued. Construction – Major and minor construction within the VA is funded at approximately $1.1 billion. The bill does not provide funding for major new hospital construction projects, but allows the VA to continue to correct safety issues and deficiencies, and make patient care improvements at several facilities. VA Mandatory Funding – The bill fulfills mandatory funding requirements such as: veteran disability compensation programs for 4.6 million veterans and their survivors; education benefits for more than one million veterans; and vocational rehabilitation and employment training for more than 130,000 veterans. Oversight –The legislation includes provisions to increase oversight of taxpayer dollars at the VA, including requiring the agency to report on construction expenditures and savings, forbidding new changes in the scope of construction projects, and restricting the agency from taking certain spending actions without notifying Congress. Advance Appropriations for Veterans Medical Programs – The bill contains $58.7 billion in advance fiscal year 2016 funding for the VA – the same level as the President’s request. This funding will provide for medical services, medical support and compliance, and medical facilities, and ensure that our veterans have continued, full access to their medical care needs. Arlington National Cemetery – The legislation includes $62 million for the Arlington National Cemetery, a decrease of $4 million from the fiscal year 2014 enacted level. For more information on funding levels and other key provisions in the Military Construction, Veterans Affairs Bill, please click here.
04.10.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Ranking Member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs (VA), and Related Agencies, supported the greater Columbus area hospitality industry with regards to the Army’s process of privatizing base lodging by including specific language in the Fiscal Year (FY) 2015 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations bill admonishing the Army for the administration of their Privatized Lodging Program. “Many legitimate concerns may arise when a large privately branded hotel is privately given the access to on-base resources and business,” said Congressman Bishop. “The text included within the bill will be of great assistance to us as we work to ensure the viewpoints of Columbus area hotels and motels are represented in future meetings regarding hotel privatization.” In November, a new 860 room hotel on Fort Benning’s base will be opening, replacing an older facility 255 rooms larger than the new hotel. The Army has stated that the new 450,000 foot facility will house incoming military families and related personnel for the base, but as the hotel will be privatized, its facilities may be available to other visitors than those visiting for official reasons. The full text of the section regarding privatization can be found below: Army Privatized Lodging Program – While the Committee has been supportive of the Army’s Privatized Lodging Program (PAL), the Committee is very concerned that the Army has not been as forthcoming when communicating with local communities regarding economic and related impacts of such facilities. There is a concern of local Hoteliers that these facilities will gain an unfair advantage by being able to offer rooms on Army bases to the general public while also benefiting from the Army policy of directing some transient soldiers to stay at on-post facilities when possible. The Committee believes that the Army needs to better address these concerns and therefore redirects the Secretary of the Army to develop a proactive outreach and communication program with local communities with respect to the impact of both new and existing lodging facilities. The Department of the Army is directed to submit an outreach plan for such a program not later than 90 days after enactment of this bill.
04.03.2014	ALBANY, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) calls the young men and women from Georgia’s 2nd Congressional District to participate in the start of the United States service academy nomination process. This year’s opportunity is open to all high school students and will close in the upcoming fall. “Once again, I am humbled to have the privilege to nominate strong, extraordinary young men and women from Southwest and Middle Georgia to our nation’s service academies.” said Congressman Bishop. “This opportunity provides motivated students the chance to not only to receive a fully-funded education, but also access to a unique and distinguished standard of service to the United States.” Though the nomination process is competitive, top tier students from the second Congressional District have been able to receive appointments to each of the military service academies in the past. In the past year, Carl Johnson from Americus received an appointment to West Point Academy; Matthew Ledger from Americus received an appointment to U.S. Naval Academy; Farley Pipkins from Macon received an appointment to U.S. Air Force Academy; and Benjamin O’Donnell and Jack O’Donnell from Canton received appointments to U.S. Merchant Marines. Each applicant’s process begins by sending one personal letter to Congressman Bishop specifying interest in joining the academy nomination process as well as specific interest in each academy. Eligible candidates for a Congressional nomination must be United States citizens, reside in the Georgia’s second Congressional District, and be between the ages of 17 and 22 on the year admitted. To request an application packet and apply, candidates should contact Toni Pickel in the Albany office at 229-439-8067 or by email at toni.pickel@mail.house.gov. In order for applications to be reviewed and processed in a timely manner, applications must be submitted to the district office by October 31 of the student's senior year. For more information, please click here.
04.02.2014	WASHINGTON D.C. – Today, all 14 members of the Georgia House delegation sent a letter to Congressman Mike Simpson (ID-2), Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development, outlining their priorities for the fiscal year 2015 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill. The letter requests that the Committee support federal funding for the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project (SHEP). Read a complete copy of the letter by clicking here. Congressman Jack Kingston (GA-01) said, “This deserving project, backed by a bipartisan, bicameral Congressional delegation, praised by the President and Vice-President, and cleared after a decade of exhaustive studies, should be fully-funded and cleared for construction immediately to protect the 350,000-plus jobs supported by our ports and the $174 million in annual net benefits from this project.” "The Savannah River deepening project is of vital importance to the Southeast and the entire nation,” said Congressman Sanford Bishop (GA-02), “Once the project is funded and completed, the port will be a major driver of economic development, create jobs, and boost Georgia’s economy by opening access to world-class trade for the region.” “It’s long overdue that we get this project started,” stated Congressman Lynn Westmoreland (GA-03). “The deepening of the Savannah Port provides crucial jobs throughout Georgia, and has an impact on the state’s entire economy. We need this federal funding so we can move forward, and I strongly encourage the committee to include this project in their appropriations.” “The Port of Savannah is an economic engine not just for the region and the state but my district as well,” said Congressman Hank Johnson (GA-04). Investment in the port creates jobs for all Georgians, including my constituents in metro Atlanta. This project will ensure that my constituents and their employers can complete in an ever-changing global marketplace.” “The Savannah Harbor Expansion Project can be an important economic booster for the future of our state and the region,” said Congressman Lewis (GA-05). “The entire Georgia delegation is working to see it through to completion.” “The economic vitality of our state, the Southeast and the nation as a whole is tied to the Port of Savannah,” said Congressman Tom Price (GA-06). “There’s no reason we should not do what is necessary and sensible to ensure this harbor expansion project is completed in a timely manner. It will not only help protect the jobs of today but it will preserve, protect and promote opportunities for growth in the future.” “To delay the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project any further is simply irresponsible,” said Congressman Rob Woodall (GA 07). “The longer we wait to complete this project, the longer we postpone the economic benefits to follow: benefits that extend far beyond Georgia’s state lines. With bipartisan support in Congress, as well as commitments from President Obama and Vice President Biden, it is time to finally act on this extensively researched and regionally invested project.” “The Savannah Port is an economic engine for the state of Georgia and for our nation,” said Congressman Austin Scott (GA-08), “I urge that this project, which has received strong support in Congress and in the Administration, be fully funded so that we can begin to realize the exponential job growth that it will bring.” “The poultry and produce that start out in the red clay of Northeast Georgia reach the world through the Port of Savannah,” said Congressman Doug Collins (GA-09). “It’s our job as Members of Congress to make sure that continues. The Savannah Harbor Expansion Project is crucial to our regional, state, and local growth. The federal government’s partnership with the State of Georgia on this project is well-founded, practical, and highly necessary.” “The Savannah Harbor is one of the nation’s fastest growing container ports, and completion of this project will boost Georgia’s economy, create jobs, and strengthen the international competitiveness of U.S. businesses,” said Congressman Paul Broun (GA-10). It is unfortunate that despite the Vice President’s promises that SHEP would be completed ‘come hell or high water,’ the President has neglected to provide funding for it in his budget proposal. SHEP is supported by the entire Georgia delegation and the State of Georgia has come to the table with a share of the funds. It’s high time that this important project is seen to completion.” “This project is critical to the economic development of Georgia, the southeast region, and indeed our entire nation,” said Congressman Phil Gingrey (GA-11). “It is long past time that the project be fully funded so that the Harbor can be deepened and utilized to its potential." “The Port of Savannah is one of the busiest in the country, and this investment will benefit communities well beyond Georgia’s borders,” said Congressman John Barrow (GA-12). “Multiple federal agencies have endorsed this project as technically feasible, economically justified, cost effective, environmentally responsible, and in the national interest. It’s time get moving on this project once and for all, and our entire delegation is unified in this effort.” “The logistics and transportation businesses in suburban Atlanta depend on the Savannah port for a competitive advantage,” Congressman David Scott (GA-08) said. “Expansion of the harbor is a no-brainer. We stand united to ensure that Georgia remains competitive with other states and countries.” “The law is clear, the funding is there and the studies are over,” said Congressman Tom Graves (GA-14). “The Savannah Harbor Expansion Project has long been ready to move forward, and I will continue working with my colleagues on the Energy and Water Subcommittee to support one of the top economic priorities of our state and nation.”
04.01.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) stood up in support of municipal and county emergency services by joining 172 of his colleagues on a bipartisan letter advocating for increased funding of our nation’s fire and emergency response teams. If allocated in the 2015 Homeland Security Appropriations Bill, the funding would fund both the Assistance to Firefighters (FIRE) Grant Program and the Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) Grant Program by $340 million each. The letter advocates for additional resources to assist municipal and county-based fire and emergency services, maintaining the safety and viability of their departments, employees, and volunteers. “We ask far too many of our firefighters to risk their lives in our defense every day, too often with insufficient staffing, inadequate training and obsolete equipment, and we have an obligation to provide them the necessary resources to perform their jobs as safely and effectively as possible,” wrote the bipartisan group of authors. The SAFER program is critical to the thousands of fire stations across the country that are currently operating short on staff. When adequately funded, SAFER will bring our nation’s fire departments to staffing levels that improve the safety of our firefighters, and the communities they serve, as they respond to the scene of a fire, auto accident, or other natural or manmade disasters. The FIRE Program has positively impacted public safety by providing more than $6.6 billion since 2001 for basic equipment our fire departments need to effectively respond to all hazards, including infrared cameras, personal protective gear, hazmat detection devices, improved breathing apparatuses, and interoperable communications systems. To view a copy of the letter, please click here. The full text of the letter is as follows: The Honorable John Carter, Chairman The Honorable David Price, Ranking Member House Appropriations Committee House Appropriations Committee Subcommittee on Homeland Security Subcommittee on Homeland Security B-307 Rayburn House Office Building 1016 Longworth House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 Washington, DC 20515 Dear Chairman Carter and Ranking Member Price: As you begin work on the Fiscal Year 2015 Homeland Security Appropriations bill, we strongly urge you to provide at least $340 million for the Assistance to Firefighters (FIRE) Grant Program and $340 million for the Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) Grant Program. This total represents the overall amount included for firefighter grants in the Fiscal Year 2014 omnibus spending bill. The SAFER program provides much-needed funding for career and volunteer fire departments across America to hire new firefighters and recruit and retain volunteer firefighters. This program is critical to the thousands of fire stations across the country that are currently operating short of staff. When adequately funded, SAFER will bring our nation’s fire departments to staffing levels that will improve the safety of our firefighters, and the communities they serve, as they respond to the scene of a fire, auto accident, or other natural or manmade disasters. Two-thirds of all career and volunteer fire departments in our nation, located in both large cities and small towns, do not have sufficient personnel to adequately protect the public. Under the SAFER program, fire departments throughout the country are able to apply for federal grants to hire and pay new firefighters. In addition, grants have been awarded to state and local organizations to recruit and retain volunteer firefighters. As you know, the SAFER program complements the very successful Assistance to Firefighters Grant program, through which the federal government provides funds for training and equipment to fire departments throughout the country. Ensuring that career and volunteer departments have adequate numbers of firefighters will allow departments to fully utilize the training and equipment funds provided through the FIRE Grant program. We urge you to fund this vital program at $340 million in FY2015. Through the committee’s past efforts, we clearly demonstrated Congress’ strong bipartisan support for the FIRE Grant program, as well as its understanding of the contributions this program has made to our firefighters and the communities they serve. This program has positively impacted public safety by providing more than $6.6 billion since 2001 for infrared cameras, personal protective gear, hazmat detection devices, improved breathing apparatuses, and interoperable communications systems. This is the basic equipment our fire departments need to effectively respond to all hazards. However, the more than $3 billion in applications submitted on average annually demonstrate that there is much work to be done before all of our communities are served by first responders who are equipped and trained as well as possible. We ask far too many of our firefighters to risk their lives in our defense every day, too often with insufficient staffing, inadequate training and obsolete equipment, and we have an obligation to provide them the necessary resources to perform their jobs as safely and effectively as possible. We urge you to help Congress meet that obligation by funding the Assistance to Firefighters (FIRE) Grant Program and the Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) Program at $340 million each in the FY2015 Homeland Security Appropriations bill. Thank you for your consideration of this request. Sincerely, Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (D-GA) Spencer Bachus (R-AL) Ron Barber (D-AZ) Lou Barletta (R-PA) Karen Bass (D-CA Joyce Beatty (D-OH) Xavier Becerra (D-CA) Ami Bera (D-CA) Rob Bishop (R-UT) Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR) Robert A. Brady (D-PA) Bruce L. Braley (D-IA) Susan W. Brooks (R-IN) Corrine Brown (D-FL) Julia Brownley (D-CA) Cheri Bustos (D-IL) G.K. Butterfield (D-NC) Lois Capps (D-CA) Michael E. Capuano (D-MA) Tony Cardenas (D-CA) John C Carney Jr. (D-DE) Andre Carson (D-IN) Matthew A. Cartwright (D-PA) Joaquin Castro (D-TX) Donna M Christensen (MP) David Cicilline (D-RI) Katherine Clarke (D-MA) Yvette D. Clarke (D-NY) Emanuel Cleaver (D-MO) Howard Coble (R-NC) Steve Cohen (D-TN) Chris Collins (R-NY) Gerald E. Connolly (D-VA) John Conyers Jr. (D-MI) Paul Cook (R-CA) Jim Costa (D-CA) Joe Courtney (D-CT) Joseph Crowley (D-NY) Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) Susan A Davis (D-CA) Danny K. Davis (D-IL) Peter A. DeFazio (D-OR) Diana DeGette (D-CO) John K Delaney (D-MD) Rosa L. DeLauro (D-CT) Susan K. DelBene (D-WA) Lloyd Doggett (D-TX) Donna F. Edwards (D-MD) Keith Ellison (D-MN) Eliot L. Engel (D-NY) William L. Enyart (D-IL) Elizabeth H. Esty (D-CT) Chaka Fattah (D-PA) Michael G. Fitzpatrick (R-PA) Bill Foster (D-IL) Lois Frankel (D-FL) Marcia L. Fudge (D-OH) Tulsi Gabbard (D-HI) Pete P. Gallego (D-TX) Joe Garcia (D-FL) Jim Gerlach (D-PA) Christopher P. Gibson (R-NY) Paul A. Gosar (R-AZ) Alan Grayson (D-FL) Al Green (D-TX) Gene Green (D-TX) Raul M. Grijalva (D-AZ) Michael G. Grimm (R-NY) Janice Hahn (D-CA) Colleen Hanabusa (D-HI) Richard L. Hanna (R-NY) Alcee Hastings (D-FL) Joseph J. Heck (D-WA) Brian Higgins (D-NY) James A. Himes (D-CT) Ruben Hinojosa (D-TX) Steven A. Horsford (D-NV) Steny H. Hoyer (D-MD) Richard Hudson (R-NC) Jared Huffman (D-CA) Steve Israel (D-NY) Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX) Hakeem Jeffries, (D-NY) Bill Johnson (R-OH) William R. Keating (D-MA) Joseph P. Kennedy (D-MA) Derek Kilmer (D-WA) Ron Kind (D-WI) Peter King (D-NY) Anne Kirkpatrick (D-AZ) Ann M. Kuster (D-NH) Leonard Lance (R-NJ) Jim R. Langevin (D-RI) Rick Larsen (D-WA) Barbara Lee (D-CA) Sander M. Levin (D-MI) John Lewis (D-GA) Daniel Lipinski (D-IL) Frank A. LoBiondo (R-NJ) David Loebsack (D-IA) Alan S. Lowenthal (D-CA) Ben Ray Lujan (D-NM) Michelle Lujan Grisham (D-NM) Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA) Daniel B. Maffei (D-NY) Sean Patrick Maloney (D-NY) Carolyn Maloney (D-NY) Doris O. Matsui (D-CA) Carolyn McCarthy (D-NY) Jim McDermott (D-WA) James P. McGovern (D-MA) David B. McKinley (R-WV) Jerry McNerney (D-CA) Patrick Meehan (D-PA) Grace Meng (D-NY) Michael H. Michaud (D-ME) Gwen Moore (D-WI) Tim Murphy (D-PA) Jerrold Nadler (D-NY) Gloria Negrete McLeod (D-CA) Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC) Frank Jr. Pallone (D-NJ) Bill Jr. Pascrell (D-NJ) Donald M. Payne, Jr. (D-NJ) Ed Perlmutter (D-CO) Gary C. Peters (D-MI) Collin C. Peterson (D-MN) Chellie Pingree (D-ME) Mark Pocan (D-WI) Jared Polis (D-CO) Nick J. Rahall (D-WV) Charles B. Rangel (D-NY) David G. Reichert (R-WA) James B. Renacci (R-OH) Mike Rogers (R-AL) Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL) Raul Ruiz (D-CA) Jon Runyan (R-NJ) C. A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) Gregorio Kilili Camacho Sablan (MP) Linda T. Sanchez (D-CA) Loretta Sanchez (D-CA) John P. Sarbanes (D-MD) Janice D. Schakowsky (D-IL) Bradley S. Schneider (D-IL) Kurt Schrader (D-OR) Allyson Schwartz (D-PA) Austin Scott (R-GA) Carol Shea-Porter (D-NH) Kyrsten Sinema (D-AZ) Albio Sires (D-NJ) Louise McIntosh Slaughter (D-NY) Christopher H. Smith (D-WA) Jackie Speier (D-CA) Eric Swalwell (D-CA) Mark Takano (D-CA) Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS) Glen Thompson (R-PA) John F. Tierney (D-MA) Dina Titus (D-NV) Paul Tonko (D-NY) Niki Tsongas (D-MA) Chris Van Hollen (D-MD) Juan Vargas (D-CA) Marc A. Veasey (D-TX) Filemon Vela (D-TX) Timothy J. Walz (D-MN) Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL) Peter Welch (VT) Frederica Wilson (D-FL) John A. Yarmuth (D-KY) Don Young (R-AK)
03.26.2014	WASHINGTON D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford Bishop (GA-02) released the following video statement today in recognition of Women’s History Month during March of 2014. To view the video statement, please click here. A transcript of Congressman Sanford D. Bishop Jr.’s statement regarding Women’s History Month can be found below: During the month of March, please join me in celebrating Women’s History Month. This is an opportunity to honor the remarkable women in our country and the work they are doing to further our great nation. Throughout the world, women have played an integral role in shaping culture and changing the course of history. A bit closer to home, the women of middle and southwest Georgia have done well to lead with historic achievements. Like Lea Henry, native of Damascus, Georgia, honored our district and America by contributing to the Gold Medal win for the U.S. Women’s Olympic Basketball team during the 1984 Summer Olympics held in Los Angeles, California. After her athletic career, Lee has dedicated much of her time to coaching and now serves as head coach for the Darton College Women’s Basketball team located in Albany, Georgia. Sarah Randolph Bailey, a native to Macon, Georgia, organized the first African American Girl Scout troops in the area during the early 1930’s. Mrs. Bailey’s contributions left a lasting impression on her community, and in 1994 the Macon Girl Scout Center was renamed the Sarah Bailey Service Center in her honor. As the First Lady, Rosalynn Carter, wife of President Jimmy Carter from Plains Georgia, focused national attention to advocacy surrounding mental health and the elderly. Today, she serves on the board of directors at the Rosalynn Carter Institute of Caregiving located at her alma-mater, Georgia Southwestern State University in Americus. And after a distinguished sixteen years on city council, Barbara Williams was recently elected to serve as the mayor of Fort Valley, becoming the first African American female to hold this influential position. Today, over 74 million women go to work every day, furthering advancement in the fields of healthcare, science, technology, and education. Principals and pastors. CEOs and librarians. Mayors and mothers. Women from all walks of life complete and enrich our world, and drive our society forward to new beginnings. From being pioneers in the struggle for suffrage, to fighting economic inequality, to breaking glass ceilings across America, women in our country have, and continue to, overcome barriers they face in order to reach full equality. It is my sincere hope that during this Women’s History Month, Americans will continue to reflect and celebrate the contributions women have made to our great society. After all, as we have seen throughout American history: when women succeed, America succeeds. Thank you and God Bless.
03.26.2014	WASHINGTON D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement regarding the Environmental Protection Agency’s and U.S. Army Corps of Engineers’ proposed rule to shift protections and increase regulation of streams and waterways under the Clean Water Act: “I believe that regulations should be put to three basic tests: (1) be based on a cost-benefit analysis; (2) be based in sound science; (3) and be based on plain common sense. In this light, I have concerns as to the impact the EPA’s new proposed regulations of streams and waterways under the Clean Water Act will have on America’s farming communities, businesses, and others whose livelihoods depend on available water resources.”
03.18.2014	ALBANY, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) invited high school students from Georgia’s 2nd Congressional District to participate in the 2014 Congressional Art Competition. “I have long believed that in our southwest and middle area of Georgia, we have some of the best, the brightest, the most creative, and the most talented young people in the world,” said Congressman Bishop. “The Congressional Art Competition is an excellent medium through which we can channel the creativity and imagination of young students across the nation, promote art education, and give recognition to the outstanding work that our schools are doing to enable young people to realize their potential.” The winner of this year’s competition will have his or her artwork displayed for one year in the Cannon Tunnel, a busy underground walkway to the U.S. Capitol from the House office buildings. All participants will be invited to attend a reception at the Thronateeska Heritage Museum in Albany at 2:00 PM on May 2, 2014. The winner will also be invited to join Congressman Bishop at a national awards reception in Washington, D.C. All artwork must be submitted to the Albany District Office at 235 West Roosevelt Avenue, Suite 114 no later than April 18, 2014. The official competition rules can be found here. For more information, please contact Toni Pickel in the Albany District Office by email at toni.pickel@mail.house.gov or by phone at 229-439-8067. Additionally, Congressman Bishop’s office is running a competition to promote science, technology, engineering, and math in Southwest and Middle Georgia. For more information regarding the Congressional “App” Competition, please click here.
03.07.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) issued the following statement regarding funding the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project (SHEP): “While I am disappointed that direct funding was not included in the President’s fiscal year 2015 budget proposal for the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project, Congress can still work to include funds through the budgeting process to continue the project. Dredging of the Savannah River is long overdue, and once the project is completed, the Savannah Port will be a major driver of regional economic development, create jobs, and boost Georgia’s economy by opening access to vital infrastructure projects across the entire country.” ###
03.05.2014	COLUMBUS, GA—Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement announcing the awarding of a new $293,125 grant from the NeighborWorks national organization to assist NeighborWorks Columbus during the 2014 fiscal year. The funding is appropriated through the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2014 and will support NeighborWorks Columbus in their efforts to revitalize and sustain communities, promote and preserve affordable housing options, and create and sustain jobs in Columbus, Georgia. “I am very grateful for NeighborWorks’ willingness to invest in Columbus through the awarding of this significant grant,” said Congressman Bishop. “I commend NeighborWorks Columbus for their ongoing commitment to creating jobs and supporting the American Dream, and I look forward to viewing our communities grow due to their neighborly guardianship of the Greater Columbus area.” “NeighborWorks Columbus’ mission is ‘to provide access to fit and affordable housing for all low to moderate income families’,” said Cathy Williams, President and CEO of NeighborWorks Columbus. “Our partnership with NeighborWorks America and the bi-partisan support from Congress is one of the tools we use to succeed in our mission. Congressman Bishop has been a supporter of our mission since we were founded in 1999. It is through that support that these funds will be used to help many families in Columbus.” “We are very pleased to be receiving this allocation from NeighborWorks America,” said Tim Farmer, NeighborWorks Columbus Board Chair. “This is an example of how public/private/non-profit partnerships work to benefit our community. This funding will help our veterans, our low-to-moderate income families and our elderly with their housing needs.” The NeighborWorks Columbus chapter is a part of the national, public nonprofit organization which supports and builds the capacity of over 240 local and regional nonprofit partner NeighborWorks organizations, comprised of local private-sector business leaders, local government representatives, and community residents. Established by Congress in 1978, NeighborWorks and the NeighborWorks network assisted almost 300,000 families and invested nearly $5.8 billion dollars in distressed communities during the 2013 fiscal year alone. To learn more about NeighborWorks Columbus please click here. ###
02.27.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford Bishop (D-GA) released the following statement today in recognition of the closing of Black History Month during February of 2014: “For all Americans, Black History Month brings an excellent opportunity to come together, to honor a shared history, and to commemorate the inspiring contributions of those who come before. Recently, I was honored to hear a firsthand account vividly depicting Mercer University during the Civil Rights era. As we close out Black History Month, I would like to share this story with you in order to reflect upon the past, contemplate the lessons we have learned, and celebrate the future together.” Remarks of Robert H. Hurt Founders Day, Mercer University February 5, 2014 Victoria, President Underwood, distinguished faculty and administrators, friends of Mercer, and most importantly, Mercer students, thank you for your invitation and your welcome. And a special thanks to the students who are here. I think that President Underwood and the faculty and staff sort of had to be here, but you did not. Thank you for coming. As noted in Ms. Conley’s introduction, I have spent most of my years since graduation from Mercer in Washington, D.C., a city best known today for its manifest dysfunction, gridlock, and partisan hot air. So last year when President Underwood told me on the eve of the shutdown of the federal government, that the Student Government Association had invited me—a Washington lobbyist—to come down from the nation’s capital to share my Washington wisdom—I thought, wow, the Student Government has a really good sense of humor. That assurance gave me the courage to accept this gracious invitation. I turned it into an opportunity for me to take a journey, back in time and back to the main campus that I had not visited in many years. I spent time in the Tarver Library. I reached out to a number of my classmates of 50 years ago, some of whom were also Mercer Cluster colleagues—Sam Oni, Don Baxter, Larry Maioriello, Colin Harris, Larry Couey, Kathy Holmes, Edward Simmons, and Ben and Ellen Jordan. Some of them are here today, along with my daughter Louisa, and my wonderful wife Virginia. President Underwood, if my wife or daughter ask to see all of my transcripts and grades, please tell her those are restricted by the federal privacy act. Most fun for me on my campus visits, I had the opportunity to talk with a great many current Mercer students. Those included the impressive young men and women who are the elected officers of your Student Government Association, with the current editor of the Cluster, Emily Farlow, and her staff editors, and with some of your excellent Minority Mentors. Thanks to all for their patience and time. Much of what I rediscovered about the past, and learned about the present, surprised me. Some of it shocked me. Some things about my time at Mercer in the 1960’s made me proud, some things made me ashamed of myself and others. But first, let me put things in the context of life on this campus 50 years ago. In 1962, the United States and the old Soviet Union came to the brink of nuclear war during the Cuban missile crisis. The military draft was in effect, and Mercer ROTC students graduated in uniform and were sworn in as Army officers as part of the ceremony. Most of the time when a student was in this beautiful auditorium, it was because he or she had to be. Chapel attendance was mandatory, three days per week. Staff from the Registrar’s Office stood in the balcony, taking a roll to see that your assigned seat was occupied— either by you or someone else. In 1963, one of the big headlines in the Cluster announced that Mercer was raising tuition by $25 per quarter. That brought the total fees for room, board and tuition to a whopping $1,380 for the full academic year. Freshmen, in retrospect, should have gotten a discount because they were supposed to wear a goofy orange and black beanie hat for the first couple of weeks of the school year. Dorms were not air-conditioned, but that wasn’t a big deal because most folks had no air-conditioning at home. Parking was not a problem because most students did not have a car. There was no I-75, but there were passenger trains. Fifty years ago the Cluster ran a story about long lunch lines in the Connell center, so some things never change. There also was an article about whether the Administration Building was haunted. That’s silly. Of course it’s haunted. Like today, we had a great basketball team. But we had a small library, no swimming pool, and a campus quad that could not hold an aesthetic candle to that of today. But in talking about 1963, here’s the hardest job: trying to explain to a Mercer student today the bizarre terrain of race relations in the South and the nation 50 years ago. My daughters, ages 17 and 20, have listened politely to my stories of white only schools, white only drinking fountains and rest rooms, and white only restaurants and hotels. But when I have tried to explain how a system of such stark racial discrimination was somehow an accepted norm by most white people-- I get the universal teenager put-down-- a big eye roll to heaven, and the comment, “Really.” I believe my kids think that we all must have been crazy. And maybe an insanity plea would be the best line of defense. Early evidence of that would be the incident in 1954, featured in Dr. Andrew Silver’s documentary play, “Combustible/Burn,” about the early civil rights movement in Macon and Mercer. That’s the story of Richard Scott, an African American graduate of Talladega College in Alabama, and Clifford York, a white Mercer ministerial student. They were arrested on charges of “suspicion of a misdemeanor.” Basically, when the neighbors saw a young black man having dinner at a white person’s home in Macon, they called the cops. Upon their release, an NAACP spokesman said, and I quote, “The deputies honestly thought the two young men were breaking a law by dining together.” Sherriff Wood said his deputies made the arrest out of fear of violence that might occur in the neighborhood if the biracial dining experience had become widely known. And I suppose they would have been right about one thing—trouble was brewing. By the time I came to Mercer in 1961, the South was catching fire from the searing injustice of racial prejudice. Let’s recall the times. In 1961, a mob of about 100 students threw rocks, bottles and fireworks outside the dorm of black student Charlayne Hunter when she and Hamilton Holmes desegregated the University of Georgia. In 1962, James Meredith could have been killed for his efforts to desegregate the University of Mississippi. A mob of a thousand gathered there and attacked a hastily assembled band of 300 federal marshals with rocks, bottles, rifle and shotgun fire. Two people were killed, and of the 300 marshals, 160 were injured—28 by gunfire. The next day, 23,000 soldiers were stationed around Oxford. The ultimate horror came a year later, on the morning of Sunday, Sept. 15, 1963, the same month that Sam Oni, Bennie Stephens and Cecil Dewberry became my classmates at Mercer. Four members of the Ku Klux Klan planted a box of dynamite under the steps of the 16th Street Baptist Church in Birmingham. The explosion came as 26 children were walking into a Sunday school class. Four little girls—three were 14 years old and one was 11—were killed and 22 others injured. Many blamed Alabama Governor George Wallace for the killings by inflaming the racial prejudice that spawned such violence in his state. A week before the bombing, he famously told The New York Times that to stop integration, Alabama needed “a few first-class funerals and political funerals.” The use of such language was calculated—Wallace had been defeated for Governor in 1958 by a racist candidate who was endorsed by the Ku Klux Klan, and who attributed his victory to Wallace being soft on integration. Indeed, Wallace had been endorsed by the NAACP. In winning the Governor’s office in 1962, Wallace had said, and I quote directly, “no other son-of-a-bitch will ever out-nigger me again.” I repeat those despicable words just as he spoke them to try to give you a sense of the world of social, moral, and political turmoil that was smoldering just outside the boundaries of the Mercer campus. For me as a reporter and editor with the Cluster, and especially as an intern and later regular reporter with The Atlanta Constitution, now The Atlanta Journal-Constitution, civil rights stories were big news. But it would be wrong to think that this was a subject that dominated the attention of the all-white Mercer student body. We lived in the comfortable bubble of the university’s world-within-a world. In the minds of most 18 to 21 year olds on campus, desegregation was not at the top of the priority list. I feel confident that if we had taken a campus vote in support of Sam Oni’s admission to Mercer, it would have passed. But few of us had any peer relationship with blacks, so this was just not a front and center issue in the minds of the majority. I contrast that with the African American students at Historically Black Colleges in Georgia and across the South. They were both the foot soldiers and the strategists for the demonstrations that ultimately broke the back of segregation. Education meant power and progress for African Americans, then as now. That’s why 50 years ago, so-called separate but equal education had been kept as separate and unequal as possible. And so it was a little more than 50 years ago that Mercer stood at an important crossroads on what to do with respect to one of the great issues of the 20th Century. The easiest course would have been to do nothing. It was not foreordained that Sam Jerry Oni, a student from Ghana, would be admitted to Mercer. It was public universities, not private colleges and universities, which were the subject of landmark desegregation litigation and court orders. Mercer in 1963 was bound by charter, money, and tradition to the Georgia Baptist Convention, which itself was on record in opposing integration-- albeit in the gauzy, polite language of the day. The Convention reviewed part of Mercer’s budget, and every year voted to set its own important financial contribution to the university-- a dollar number that was always a headline in the Cluster. Powerful alumni bitterly opposed desegregation and made it clear that their financial support would dry up if the school embraced integration. The easy choice would have been to go slow, which was the mantra of the day in the South. But there was something special in Mercer’s character, then and now, that made a difference. At the same time the Bibb County deputies were locking up Richard Scott and Clifford York for dining together in 1954, Mercer Professor of Religion Mac Bryan was among those challenging Mercer students to learn the art of critical thinking and Christian conscience on race and religion. Dr. Bryan would school a generation of Baptist ministers, many of whom would go on to lead Georgia churches and play a key role in supporting Mercer integration. Harris Mobley, the Mercer-trained Baptist missionary who would recruit Sam to come to Mercer, famously said, “Dr. Bryan invented me.” Also in the 1950’s, Joe Hendricks had arrived at Mercer as a student, and returned to campus in 1959 as Dean of Men after studying theology. Joe would become one of the seminal figures in Mercer history, and certainly in the history of racial justice. So it was well before 1963 that the strategy was formed. Desegregation at Mercer would happen in the context of faith and shared human dignity. It was not just that Mercer would desegregate, but how Mercer would do it that became important. The key actors in this effort by the time I was at Mercer were Joe and Jean Hendricks, Ray Brewster, Willis Glover, Tom Trimble, Bob Otto, Harold McManus, Bobby and Mary Wilder, and many others. They were the campus radicals who would seek to save Mercer’s soul, and they were the administration and faculty of Mercer. They were quite the band of brothers and sisters—great scholars, but also fun to be with in a classroom. I remember Dr. Glover, the History professor, teasing Dr. Otto, who taught logic. He said, “Bob, history teaches us that logic is not important. Students don’t need to learn logic. They need to learn to use fallacies effectively.” At the top of this faculty food chain was a man who does not always get his full due— Mercer President, Dr. Rufus C. Harris. He was a Mercer graduate, former Dean of the Mercer and Tulane University Law Schools, and President of Tulane University for more than 20 years. Most people thought that he came to Mercer in 1960 as a pleasant way to transition into retirement. He fooled us all, serving as President until 1980. With his patrician bearing and quick mind, he set the course that navigated Mercer desegregation with, through, and around trustees, Baptists, alumni, and the media. And the media very much included the Mercer Cluster. In hindsight, whenever I interviewed Dr. Harris, I was like a simple minded border guard in a Star Wars movie talking to Obi-Wan Kenobi. I was no match for the Jedi master of interviews, and of course he was too smart to let me figure that out in real time. Basically, whatever Dr. Harris wanted me to write is what I ended up writing. President Underwood, having seen you in action, I now know that you also are a Jedi master, so I presume that is a skill passed on in secret with each Presidential transition. In the pre-Twitter world, the Cluster was the major conduit of information about all things Mercer. The earliest article on desegregation I have seen was February 2, 1950, when a student, Jim Young, wrote an almost full page column with a strategy to phase in desegregation. He said that “. . . the chief obstacle is not the sentiment of the college student bodies, nor that of the faculties or even that of the administrations. The chief obstacle is the sentiment of the financial masters of the administrations—the trustees and the general public.” There was companion article on the same page by another student, Ms. Laurice Walker, and together these two pieces were a stunningly direct exposition on how to counter racism, and all founded on the teaching of Jesus. Ms. Walker said of desegregation that it would cause conflict, but that “New social conditions are born like people—there’s some misery attendant upon the birth,” and she added that we should be mindful that Jesus said in Matthew, “I come to bring not peace, but a sword.” Wow. Props to Laurice—strong words for any era, much less 1950. I look back with mixed emotions on my own work on desegregation as editor. We covered the run-up to the desegregation decision aggressively, ran editorials and columns in support, and left no doubt where we stood. My predecessor as editor, Larry Maioriello, took a good bit of heat from his law school classmates for his early stand in support of desegregation. Some called the Cluster staff “Maioriello’s Menagerie.” Larry was and still is a tough guy and he just ignored it. In hindsight, I give myself a decent grade for the journalism of the initial coverage of this issue on my watch, but I get a C minus for weak follow-up. I was shocked to learn in later years about the visit of the Tattnall Square church pastor to Sam’s dorm room immediately after he arrived, delivering the message that he would not be welcome in the congregation. I talked to Sam about that recently, and basically apologized for being a pretty sorry reporter for not having known or written about that incident. He said that at the time, he and his white roommate, Don Baxter, were so shocked, they said little about it. But a good reporter would have been in touch with Sam and following his life on campus. I think after Sam, and Benny and Cecil were on campus, we treated it as a story that was finished, which it was not. For my own part, editorials in support of desegregation were in my comfort zone because I had grown up in a family where it was made clear early and often that racial bias was a sin. My father, John Hurt, was the editor of the state Baptist newspaper in Georgia, The Christian Index. The Index was one of the largest circulation weekly publications in the state, sent to more than 100,000 subscribers. Dad had a strong editorial voice, and he used it decisively in support of the Mercer desegregation. He had push-back from some of his readers and some denominational leaders. But I never thought much about the courage it took for him to do that, as he was an employee of the Georgia Baptist Convention. It was only later that I learned from my older brother, also a Mercer graduate, that our mother was very concerned that Dad would lose his job over his editorials. I was probably focused on the fact that he had better sources than me— he broke the story of the application of Sam to Mercer and that sparked the follow up stories around the country and in The New York Times. The media was just one part of the strategy that the faculty and Dr. Harris crafted to break the Mercer color barrier. Not by accident, the heart of the strategy was to leverage the powerful Southern Baptist tradition of sending missionaries overseas, and using that tradition to teach a lesson. When Georgia Baptists, or any good soul, looked into the mirror handed to them by the Mercer-trained missionary Harris Mobley, they would see the dazzling smile of Sam Jerry Oni. As Harris would say later with delight, “Our preaching caught up with us.” But journalists or university Presidents were not the ground soldiers in this fight. The ground soldiers in the fight were Sam and his white roommate, Don Baxter, along with day students Benny Stephens and Cecil Dewberry. They were the Seal Team 6 for a hostage rescue of this university, and they did not escape without injury. Sam’s faith was shaken by the hypocrisy of churches that would not accept blacks. Don abandoned his plans to be a minister, also disgusted by religious hypocrisy. Desegregation was to be a shock wave in congregations all over the South. At Mercer, the Rev. Tom Holmes, teacher and administrator, staked his professional career in 1965 on his ability to bring Tattnall Square Baptist Church through the tumult by accepting that all were welcome in God’s house. For preaching truth, he was called “lower down than a dog” and fired. His wonderful book, “Ashes for Breakfast,” tells the story. He was not alone. Many preachers all over the South who lost their pulpits in the same way. They became pastoral refugees. My first pastor in Washington, D.C., Bob Troutman, at Riverside Baptist had been run out of his church in Memphis. But the die was cast in Macon. Mercer would not only desegregate, it would establish an on-campus tutoring program for black students who wanted to attend but who had been denied the same standard of a high school education as their white classmates. Today, Mercer’s minority enrollment of more than 20 percent is by far higher than virtually all of its peer institutions in the South. We speak today of Dr. Harris and the faculty of that time as the seminal figures in desegregation here, and they were. But fundamentally they were teachers. Race relations were just one of the lessons in the syllabus, and their lives and lessons transformed a generation. Ellen Jordan, my classmate in 1963, sent me an email when she learned about the topic of my remarks today. She wrote, and I quote, “here’s a snapshot from the perspective of a naïve little Baptist girl who had no independent thought until I got to the Mercer quad. . . Happy with the status quo, an over-achiever, high school nerd, product of segregated neighborhoods and schools, afraid to leave the box, feeling always that religion would carry me along; I came to Mercer with no expectations. Just another comfort zone. “And then I went to Ray Brewster’s class. He turned the world upside down in the most quiet and shocking way. Sitting on the edge of the desk, feet propped on a trash can, tattered book in his hand, he gave me ‘a whole new life’ to this day.” Ellen closed by saying that Ray, his colleagues and Dr. Harris “symbolizes the Mercer experience,” and that “they chose the right side of history at that moment in time. I am touched that nearly a half century later, here we stand . . . Mercerians—from different backgrounds somewhat, with similar experiences mostly—and the circle is unbroken. Maybe Mercer is still doing that today.” Ellen, I think, knows that she can rest easy. Mercer is continuing that tradition. I know that students, faculty, and President Underwood have made it clear that the observance of the 50th anniversary is not a time for self-celebration and resting on laurels. And indeed, no white man or woman today should expect a pat on the back for helping end a practice of discrimination that defies modern understanding. But the simple truth is that the campus radicals of my era—mainly the faculty and administration with the support of students—plowed up the weeds of systemic discrimination at this university, and did so in a way that new things could grow from that work. It is a very good thing that most students in 2014 find the racial terrain of 50 years ago to be ancient history. It is a good thing that the name of Governor George Wallace draws blank stares from most teenagers today. But it also should be a good for them to know that George Wallace, late in life, became a born-again Christian, renounced racism, ran for Governor yet again, was endorsed by the NAACP, and won the majority of the black votes in Alabama on his way to victory. Don Baxter, who had turned away from the ministry to medicine, said in this room that his experience at Mercer with Sam changed his life forever. And for the good. Sam said in this room that he found renewal in his faith and in this university when he returned years later to see the changes that had taken place. Charles Richardson, an African American who is Editor of the Editorial Page of Macon Telegraph, told me that Mercer today is a life force in Macon—it radiates a vibrant and progressive power in this city and state. This community depends on Mercer for progress. My classmate Colin Harris, who himself retired recently from the Mercer faculty, reminded me that on Founders Day we should be mindful that “founding” is a process more than an event. Founders are present in the life of a community in every generation. To students today, of all races and national origins, you have the opportunity to know each other as friends and partners in life in a way that just was not possible in my time. Right now, at Mercer, you have the opportunity to live and study and socialize together in what for many of you is probably the most unselfconsciously integrated environment you have ever encountered. It is an opportunity for you to develop the friendships of a life time. So the end of the story of the 50th anniversary is not really an ending—it’s a beginning. Mercer students, you attend a much better, much stronger, more compassionate and impactful school than the one I attended. You have access to programs that reach around the world. You have a student body strengthened by diversity to deal with a world of diversity, and you have a faculty of great accomplishment. Now it’s your turn to write the story line of a Founders Day that will unfold some years from now. I do not know what the social, economic, cultural or public policy challenges will be that you choose to take on. But I am confident that in your task, you will be able to draw on the strength to do so from a university that was changed for the good by the campus radicals who saved Mercer’s soul. Thank you. ###
02.27.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) issued the following statement on Congressman John Dingell’s announcement regarding his decision not to run for re-election to his House seat in 2014. John Dingell is the longest sitting member of Congress ever, having served as a Congressman from Southern Michigan for over 59 years: “I was truly saddened to hear Representative John Dingell will be retiring at the end of his term. Rep. Dingell has faithfully served his nation for well over half a century, demonstrating an undisputed record of leadership and an unyielding commitment to duty. During his time in the House of Representatives, Rep. Dingell fought for the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and tirelessly worked to insure that every American would have access to affordable healthcare. Truly, he has helped to improve every American’s quality of life while standing in steadfast support of our nation’s rights and freedoms. “On a personal note, it has been an honor to call Rep. Dingell my friend and colleague for the past two decades. While his presence, leadership, and exuberant spirit will be missed in the Halls of Congress, the deep legacy he leaves behind will live on in the hearts and minds of his current and former colleagues, as well as in the storied chronicles of the U.S. House of Representatives. I wish Representative John Dingell the best of luck as he moves on to future endeavors in his beloved state of Michigan.” ###
02.12.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) issued the following statement regarding his vote to avoid government default by extending the borrowing limit of the United States and relieving the threat of default on our nation’s debt until March 15, 2015. The bill passed the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 221 to 201 and goes on to the Senate for debate. “Similar to a homeowner paying the mortgage, a tenant paying the rent, or a business paying the bills, it is important for our nation to pay its bills too! Without the extended borrowing authority, the United States would not be able to continue Social Security payments, Medicare reimbursements, military pay, and other benefits to the American people. Additionally, it is critical that the world continues to place credibility in the U.S. dollar as a standard upon which to rely. The passage of this legislation will allow our government the time and opportunity to work on a balanced way to reduce the deficit and pay down our national debt.” ###
02.11.2014	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) and seventy-two of his colleagues sent the following letter to President Barack Obama, inviting the President to work with Congress to address the current propane market supply issue causing shortages across the United States. “For many families, farms, and producers in Georgia, maintaining open access to sufficient propane resources is critical for success,” said Congressman Bishop. “For example, poultry farmers in Georgia need propane to warm their chicken houses. When resources deplete, costs rise for the producer and in turn increases the price of chicken in our restaurants and grocery stores. Working to address the propane shortage is not just good for everyday Georgians but also just plain common sense.” As the Members write in the letter, "Several factors are contributing to the current price increases and supply shortages, including a large, wet harvest, unseasonably cold weather, and transport disruptions. With extremely cold weather conditions likely to persist, many of our constituents are on the verge of a potentially dangerous situation with few options. Any further reduction in supply threatens to leave many Americans without the fuel necessary to heat homes, businesses, and livestock and poultry operations." The Members state further that, "We understand the current propane market supply issue causing shortages in many regions of the country is a complex situation with a number of contributing factors which cannot be ignored…We are prepared to help find responsible solutions…Given the importance of this situation to consumers, we urge you to do everything in your power to address this problem without delay." To view a scan of the letter, please click here. Below is the full text of the sent letter: President Barack Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: We understand the current propane market supply issue causing shortages in many regions of the country is a complex situation with a number of contributing factors which cannot be ignored. Now, with more than twenty states making disaster declarations, we write to express our sincere interest in seeking solutions to the predicament. Several factors are contributing to the current price increases and supply shortages, including a large, wet harvest, unseasonably cold weather, and transport disruptions. With extremely cold weather conditions likely to persist, many of our constituents are on the verge of a potentially dangerous situation with few options. Any further reduction in supply threatens to leave many Americans without the fuel necessary to heat homes, businesses, and livestock and poultry operations. Given the importance of this situation to consumers, we urge you to do everything in your power to address this problem without delay. We thank you for recent actions taken and ask that you take additional steps to help improve this dire situation. We are prepared to help find responsible solutions. Thank you for your consideration and we look forward to hearing from you regarding options to alleviate the propane fuel supply shortage and assisting in any way possible. Sincerely, Rep. Sanford D. Bishop Jr. (D-GA) Rep. Michelle Bachmann (R-MN) Rep. Spencer Bachus (R-AL) Rep. Dan Benishek (R-MI) Rep. Bruce Braley (D-IA) Rep. Paul C. Broun (R-GA) Rep. Cheri Bustos (D-IL) Rep. Chris Collins (R-NY) Rep. Doug Collins (R-GA) Rep. Kevin Cramer (R-ND) Rep. Rick Crawford (R-AR) Rep. Rodney Davis (R-IL) Rep. Keith Ellison (D-MN) Rep. William L. Enyart (D-IL) Rep. J. Randy Forbes (R-VA) Rep. Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) Rep. Bill Foster (D-IL) Rep. Chris Gibson (R-IL) Rep. Bob Goodlatte (R-VA) Rep. Tom Graves (R-GA) Rep. Tim Griffin (R-AR) Rep. H. Morgan Griffith (R-VA) Rep. Gregg Harper (R-MS) Rep. Andy Harris (R-MD) Rep. George Holding (R-NC) Rep. Richard Hudson (R-NC) Rep. Bill Huizenga (R-MI) Rep. Walter B. Jones (R-NC) Rep. David P. Joyce (R-OH) Rep. Mike Kelly (R-PA) Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) Rep. Steve King (R-IA) Rep. Adam Kinzinger (R-IL) Rep. John Kline (R-MN) Rep. Tom Latham (R-IA) Rep. Robert E. Latta (R-OH) Rep. David Loebsack (D-IA) Rep. Billy Long (R-MO) Rep. Betty McCollum (D-MN) Rep. Mike McIntyre (D-NC) Rep. Ann McLane Kuster (D-NH) Rep. Mike Michaud (D-ME) Rep. Candice Miller (R-MI) Rep. Markwayne Mullin (R-OK) Rep. Kristi Noem (R-SD) Rep. Rick Nolan (D-MN) Rep. Steven Palazzo (R-MS) Rep. Erik Paulsen (R-MN) Rep. Gary C. Peters (D-MI) Rep. Collin C. Peterson (D-MN) Rep. Chellie Pingree (D-ME) Rep. Mike Pompeo (R-KS) Rep. Mike Quigley (R-IL) Rep. Tom Reed (R-NY) Rep. Reid Ribble (R-WI) Rep. Scott Rigell (R-VA) Rep. Mike Rogers (R-AL) Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-IL) Rep. Gregorio Kilili Camacho Sablan (D-MP) Rep. Aaron Schock (R-IL) Rep. Austin Scott (R-GA) Rep. David Scott (D-GA) Rep. John Shimkus (R-IL) Rep. Adrian Smith (R-NE) Rep. Lee Terry (R-NE) Rep. Glenn ‘GT’ Thompson (R-PA) Rep. Fred Upton (R-MI) Rep. Marc Veasey (R-TX) Rep. Tim Walberg (R-MI) Rep. Jackie Walorski (R-IN) Rep. Tim Walz (D-MN) Rep. Lynn Westmoreland (R-GA) Rep. Todd Young (R-IN) ###
02.05.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released a statement regarding the passage of a bill that funds our nation’s nutrition programs and provides Rural America a Farm Bill with the necessary tools and stability to continue producing the safest, most abundant, and most affordable food and fiber in the world. The conference agreement on H.R. 2642, the Agriculture Act of 2014 (Farm Bill) was approved by the U.S. House of Representatives last week with a vote of 251 to 166, by the Senate today with a vote of 68 to 32, and will now go to the President for his signature. Congressman Bishop voted in favor of the bill. “The Farm Bill is not just for farmers and those living in Rural America. It is for every American who eats, works, and lives in our great nation. Investments in broadband infrastructure and programs focusing on research, conservation, rural economic development, energy, forestry, trade, dairy, crops, and food policy contained in the Farm Bill affect all Americans by nature of the personal daily impact they have on our suburban, urban, and rural communities alike. “The men and women who till the earth, raise the livestock, grow the timber, and ensure our food supply deserve the resources they need to build a solid foundation upon which to make sound financial decisions, develop improvements in their processes, and enhance the quality of their products. The bill reunites the traditional marriage between Farm and nutrition programs, strengthening both while resetting the precious balance of priorities for farmers and ranchers in Georgia and across the entire country. Additionally, I am particularly pleased with the bill’s provisions for poultry, cotton, and peanuts, which are three important Georgia products. “While the Farm Bill we have passed is not perfect, I do believe that overall it strikes a reasonable balance. Though the legislation decreases Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) payments by $8.6 billion by closing a loophole in the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) in fifteen states and the District of Columbia, it is better than the draconian proposal of cutting $40 billion in SNAP funding. Though I sincerely empathize with the 850,000 families whose SNAP benefits will be decreased by $90 a month, passage of this legislation will continue critical assistance for 47 million Americans in need. “Overall, the consensus brought to bear offers security and peace of mind to Rural America, strengthens the decades-old link between farm and nutrition programs, cuts the deficit over the next ten years, expands economic investment in Georgia communities, and provides an opportunity to improve efficiency of agriculture policy going into the future, maintain the social safety net, and protect a healthier quality of life for all Americans.” For background and details regarding H.R. 2642, please click here. ###
02.05.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released a statement regarding passage of the conference agreement on the Farm Bill (H.R. 2642, the Agriculture Act of 2014). Passage of the Farm Bill hails a success for all Americans, particularly our socially disadvantaged farmers and minorities by funding our nation’s agriculture programs, including nutrition, historically black land grant colleges and universities (HBCU’s), Hispanic serving institutions, the Beginning Farmer and Rancher Development Program, the USDA Military Veterans Agricultural Liaison, the Office of Tribal Relations, and the Donald Payne Horn of Africa Food Resilience Program. The bill also provides Rural America with the necessary tools and stability to continue producing the safest, most abundant, highest quality, and most affordable food and fiber in the world. “The Farm Bill is not just for farmers and those living in Rural America. It is for every American who eats, works, and lives in our great nation. Investments in broadband infrastructure and programs focusing on research, conservation, rural economic development, energy, forestry, trade, dairy, crops, and food policy contained in the Farm Bill affect all Americans by nature of the personal daily impact they have on suburban, urban, and rural communities alike. “I am particularly pleased with the compromise reached in our nutrition programs. The nutrition title rejects harmful changes to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance (SNAP) and Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) programs proposed in the House passed bill, while addressing hunger and poverty by investing in programs that provide meals to the elderly, lunch to school children, supplies to emergency shelters and food banks, as well as assistance to millions of American families in need of healthy nutritious food. “While the Farm Bill the House passed is not perfect, I do believe that overall it strikes a good balance. “Truly, the consensus brought to bear offers security and peace of mind to Rural America, strengthens the decades-old link between farm and nutrition programs, cuts the deficit over the next ten years, expands investment in Georgia communities, and provides a springboard upon which to improve agriculture policy for future farm bills and the betterment of Americans from all walks of life.” Congressman Bishop voted in favor of the Farm Bill. The bill was approved by the U.S. House of Representatives last week with a vote of 251 to 166, by the Senate today with a vote of 68 to 32, and will now go to the President for his signature. BACKGROUND: Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP): Requires a minimum $20 Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) payment (impacts roughly 850,000 households), cutting waste and streamlining a program that helps keep families safe and healthy through initiatives that assist with energy costs Removes drug testing and language prohibiting participation by convicted felons and their families even after they have completed the terms of their sentence Provides funding for an employment & training pilot program The Outreach and Technical Assistance for Socially Disadvantaged Farmers and Ranchers Program: Reauthorizes and provides a funding level of $30 million per year for the program ($10 million mandatory and authorizes $20 million annually) Funds the Office of Advocacy and Accountability Creates of a new Office of Socially Disadvantaged Farmers Group Title II (Conservation) Programs: Establishes 5% goal for USDA to increase participation of small, disadvantaged, and beginning farmers in all Title II programs by increasing USDA visibility, usage of, and focus upon; Environmental Quality Incentives Program Priority for conservation loans and loan guarantees Priority for Rural Development value added producer grants Biomass Crop Assistance Program projects Risk Management Education Creates of a new Office of Small Farms and Beginning Farmers Group Socially Disadvantaged Farmers and Ranchers Policy Center: Establishes a socially disadvantaged Farmers and Ranchers Policy Center at an HBCU, 1890 Land Grant College or University Support for 1890 Institutions: Reauthorizes funding at $25 million per year Receipt for Service: Requires the issuance of a written receipt for service or denial of service to any current or prospective participant for programs serving farmers and ranchers as operated by FSA, NRCS, and any other program directly serving producers. The Emergency Food Assistance Program (TEFAP): Increases commodity purchases funding by $200 million over 10 years Assistance to Community Food Projects: Funding increase from $5 million to $9 million Seniors Farmers Market: Reauthorizes the program Foreclosure Language Moratorium: Continues the current moratorium on foreclosures and the waiver of interest and offsets included in the 2008 Farm Bill which is found at Sec. 331A(b) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act For additional background regarding H.R. 2642, please click here. ###
02.05.2014	ALBANY, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) invited high school students from Georgia’s 2nd Congressional District to participate in the 2014 Congressional Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) Academic Competition, “House App Contest”. “I have long believed that we have some of the best, brightest, most creative, and most talented young people in the world right here in Southwest and Middle Georgia,” said Congressman Bishop. “If you are a high school student interested in exploring new frontiers in science, technology, engineering, and math, the House App Contest is a great chance to join the millions of coders lending hard work and dedication to the development of innovative internet technology for the future. Our country is depending on you to maintain its leadership in technology!” For a video of Congressman Bishop explaining the competition, please click here. This new competition is designed to engage student’s creativity and encourage their participation in STEM education fields. Established by Members of the U.S. House of Representatives in 2013, this competition is a nationwide event that allows high school students from across the country to compete by creating and exhibiting their software application, or “app,” for mobile, tablet, or computer devices on a platform of their choice. Throughout the completion period, participating students will be provided opportunities to engage with various STEM educational partners located within the community to mentor and assist them with their app development. The “House App Contest” is open to all high school students in the Second Congressional District of Georgia. Students entering the competition must submit their app’s source code online during the Competition Submission Period between 12:00 PM Eastern Standard Time on February 1, 2014, and 11:59 PM Eastern Daylight Time on April 30, 2014, as well as provide a YouTube or VIMEO video demo explaining their app and what they learned through this competition process. For additional information, the official competition rules, and a place to register please click here or contact Toni Pickel in the Albany District Office by email at toni.pickel@mail.house.gov or by phone at 229-439-8067. ###
01.29.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) issued the following statement regarding President Obama’s State of the Union address to a joint session of Congress. “The President delivered an impressive, sincere, and realistic speech about the Executive Branch’s plans to meet and overcome many challenges our nation faces. Laying out a set of practical proposals to grow the economy and support the middle class, the President called for an increase in the minimum wage, improved access to a college education, jobs in high-tech manufacturing, affordable housing, enhanced retirement security, and other Presidential initiatives. “Without a doubt, the President sees 2014 as a year of opportunity, action, and optimism. As the Congressman from Middle and Southwest Georgia, I look forward to a year of working with Congress to find and pass balanced solutions that reduce the federal deficit, continue to strengthen our economy, and create opportunity for all Americans.” ###
01.24.2014	Washington D.C. – This week, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) received a 100% rating from the Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights based on his voting record on key issues like civil rights protections, the budget, education, jobs, immigration reform, violence against women, and more. The Leadership Conference released vote ratings for every Member of Congress for the 1st Session of the 113th Congress. “High scoring members have shown a remarkable commitment to civil and human rights for all Americans and are the conscience of the Congress,” said Nancy Zirkin, Executive Vice President of The Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights. “They understand that America can reach its full potential when it honors the dignity of all, regardless of race, gender, religion, sexual orientation, disability status, or income.” “Civil rights and economic justice go hand in hand,” said Congressman Bishop. “It is vital that Congress continue to promote economic security, job creation, education, health care, and women’s rights initiatives in order to form a more perfect union. On these issues, to support one means we support all, raising all ships with a rising tide of equal rights and opportunity.” The Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights is a coalition charged by its diverse membership to promote and protect the rights of all persons in the United States. The Leadership Conference Education Fund builds public will for federal policies that promote and protect the civil and human rights of all persons in the United States. Vote ratings have been published for every Congress since 1969. For more information on the Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights ratings, please click here. ###
01.17.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Ranking Member of the U.S. House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, released the following statement regarding the passage of a government funding bill, the Fiscal Year (FY) 2014 Omnibus Appropriations Bill. Congressman Bishop voted in favor of the legislation. The bill passed the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 359 to 67, passed by the U.S. Senate by a vote of 72 to 26, and now goes on to the President for signature. “Yesterday, the House of Representatives came together in a bi-partisan fashion to provide our government with a balanced funding bill, which includes the resources it needs to create jobs, boost our economic growth, bolster education, invest in our infrastructure, and support our working families. As the Ranking Member of the Appropriations Subcommittee for Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, I am confident that the FY2014 bill provides our military the resources it needs to defend our country and fund the services our veterans may need to carry out successful, productive lives. “I am also pleased that the bill cancels the extreme impact another round of sequestration would have made on everyday lives by returning essential education, job training, medical research, worker safety, child care, food safety, and other program accounts back to the pre-sequester levels of 2013. While I believe funding levels are still too low, I am particularly pleased with our provisions for food stamps, nutrition programs, the National Institute of Health’s research, and the FAA’s tower program, in addition to our strong support of key farm, rural development, and conservations programs. “Unfortunately, the Omnibus Appropriations Bill still falls woefully short in providing an adequate safety net by not including funding for the extension of unemployment benefits while significantly reducing funding for employment and training activities through the Department of Labor. While this legislation is not perfect, I do believe that it provides a working solution to the budget skirmishes that we have become all too accustomed to over the past few years. Certainly, it cannot be understated how important it is to bring Congress’ appropriation process back to regular order, for the betterment of a working government and America as a whole.” BACKGROUND: Below is a list of highlights of funding levels and other key provisions in the Omnibus Appropriations Bill for Fiscal Year 2014: MILITARY CONSTRUCTION/VETERANS AFFAIRS – The bill includes funding for key military infrastructure projects to support our troops and their families at home and abroad. It also includes increased funding to meet our obligations to our nation’s veterans including helping to reduce the claims backlog at the Department of Veterans Affairs. The Military Construction/Veterans Affairs portion of the Omnibus Appropriations discretionary total is $73.3 billion – $1.4 billion above the enacted Fiscal Year 2013 level. However, the bill also seeks to save taxpayer dollars wherever possible, without impacting critical programs for our military or veterans. For example, the legislation includes rescissions of unused, unobligated funds from previous years, and does not provide funding for several proposed military construction projects that are not justified at this time. For a video of Congressman Bishop’s remarks regarding the FY 2014 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations section of the FY2014 Omnibus Bill, please click here. Georgia PROJECTS: The bill specifically includes $7,624,000 for the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project and related projects, a major driver of economic development throughout the entire state; Funding for the Faith Middle School addition and White Elementary School replacement at Fort Benning; Funding for the advanced individual training barracks complex at Fort Gordon; Funding for the Diamond Elementary School Replacement at Fort Stewart; Funding for the replacement of fuel island at Hunter Army Airfield; Funding for the replacement of the ground vehicle fueling facility at Moody Air Force Base; Funding for the funding for a Navy dispatch facility and a weapons storage and inspection facility at the Marine Corps Logistics Base Albany; Funding for the acquisition of land for a Navy bombing range in Savannah. For more information about the omnibus appropriations bill, please click here to visit the U.S. House Appropriations Committee website. ###
01.17.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Ranking Member of the U.S. House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies, spoke on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives regarding the inclusion of the Fiscal Year (FY) 2014 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations bill into the FY2014 Omnibus Appropriations Bill. Congressman Bishop voted in favor of the legislation. The bill passed the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 359 to 67, passed by the U.S. Senate by a vote of 72 to 26, and now goes on to the President for signature. To view a video of Congressman Bishop’s remarks, please click here. The full text of Congressman Bishop’s remarks as prepared for delivery are as follows: I thank the gentlewoman for yielding. Mr. Speaker, the MilCon/VA portion of this Omnibus Bill allocation provides a total of $73.3 billion for the FY 2014 MilCon/VA bill, a total which is $1.3 billion above FY 2013. The MilCon portion of this bill provides sufficient funding for our military facilities world-wide, including family housing, and is adequately funded to meet their needs. The Veterans Affairs (VA) portion is funded at $63.2 billion. Overall, the Omnibus meets the discretionary budget request in all areas of administrative expenses, research, information technology, and facilities for VA. In addition, the bill contains $55.6 billion in advance appropriations for medical services, medical support and compliance, and medical facilities at the VA, which is $1.1 billion above the amount provided in the FY 2013. This bill also takes concrete steps to pinpoint and address the serious issues of the VA’s claims backlog and inter-operability of the Department of Defense’ and VA’s electronic health record systems. For example, addressing the claims backlog, the agreement includes a 10-point action plan which we believe will give the VA additional tools to reinforce personnel resources, training, and quality oversight as well as strengthen accountability by upgrading equipment and broadening access to electronic medical records. This plan not only focuses only on increasing productivity of the Department but also on individual claim processors’ accuracy. This effort will ensure that veterans receive fair compensation at the outset and do not encounter additional delays by having to appeal decisions. Regarding the merging of the Department of Defense and VA’s Electronic Health Record systems, the agreement makes it very clear to both Departments that an interoperable record system, that actually works, is the chief end-goal for Congress. The evolution and/or procurement of new health record systems is an important project for both Departments to undertake, but the effort with be a futile exercise if it results in the development of two interoperable systems, defined as the ability to exchange computable information electronically. Before I close Mr. Speaker, I would like to recognize the hardworking staff – Donna Shahbaz and her team on the Majority side, Matt Washington on the Minority staff, and Michael Reed on my personal staff for all of the amazing work and time they have put into this bill and supporting our Subcommittee’s efforts. I would also like to thank Mrs. Lowey and Mr. Rogers, who serve as the distinguished Ranking Member and Chairman of this Committee. I yield back. BACKGROUND: The bill includes funding for key military infrastructure projects to support our troops and their families at home and abroad. It also includes increased funding to meet our obligations to our nation’s veterans – including helping to reduce the claims backlog at the Department of Veterans Affairs. The Military Construction/Veterans Affairs portion of the Omnibus discretionary total is $73.3 billion – $1.4 billion above the enacted Fiscal Year 2013 level. Military Construction – The bill provides $9.8 billion for military construction projects, which is a decrease of $817 million from the enacted Fiscal Year 2013 level. These programs include large and small construction and rehabilitation projects on military bases in the U.S. and overseas that support our troops and their families. Military Family Housing – The bill provides $1.5 billion to fund construction, operation, and maintenance of military family housing for Fiscal Year 2014. This is $133 million below the enacted Fiscal Year 2013 level, a result of savings from the privatization of family housing. The funding will ensure quality housing is continued for 1,231,044 military families whose loved ones are serving the country. Military Medical Facilities – The bill includes $796 million for construction and alterations for new or existing military medical facilities. These facilities support and care for 9.8 million eligible beneficiaries, including our wounded troops abroad. Department of Defense (DoD) Education Facilities – The bill includes $798 million for essential safety improvements and infrastructure work at 17 DoD Education Activities facilities located within the U.S. and overseas. This funding will help address health, safety, and efficiency problems at these facilities for military children and families. Guard and Reserve – The bill includes $665.8 million for construction or alteration of Guard and Reserve facilities in 25 states. Georgia Projects $37,304 for the White Elementary School replacement at Fort Benning; $6,031 for the Faith Middle School addition at Fort Benning; $15,600 for a weapons storage and inspection facility at the Marine Corps Logistics Base Albany; $1,010 for a Navy dispatch facility at the Marine Corps Logistics Base Albany; $61,000 for an advanced individual training barracks complex at Fort Gordon; $44,504 for the Diamond Elementary School Replacement at Fort Stewart; $13,500 for the replacement of fuel island at Hunter Army Airfield; $3,800 for the replacement of the ground vehicle fueling facility at Moody Air Force Base; $61,717 for the acquisition of land for a Navy bombing range in Savannah. Veterans Affairs (VA) – The legislation includes a total of $147.9 billion in both discretionary and mandatory funding for the Department of Veterans Affairs. This funding will help provide our nation’s veterans with the services and care they have earned from their dedicated service to the country. Discretionary funding for VA programs in the agreement is $63.2 billion, which is $2.3 billion above the enacted Fiscal Year 2013 level. VA Medical Services – The agreement funds VA medical services at $43.6 billion – providing for approximately 6.5 million patients to be treated in Fiscal Year 2014. Some of these funds include: $7.2 billion in mental health care services; $103 million in suicide prevention activities; $246 million for traumatic brain injury treatment; $6.2 billion in homeless veterans treatment, services, housing, and job training; and $250 million in rural health initiatives. DoD-VA Electronic Health Record – The agreement ensures that the Departments of Defense and VA are developing electronic health records that will seamlessly transfer medical information between the two agencies, providing $323 million for these efforts within the VA. The legislation also includes language to ensure the VA creates a truly interoperable, working system in a timely and cost-effective fashion to help prevent unnecessary mistakes or delays in veterans’ medical care. Disability Claims Processing Backlog – The legislation includes a major crosscutting initiative that will help the VA meet its goal of ending the disability compensation claims backlog by 2015. This includes: $140 million – an increase of $20 million above the President’s request and $26 million above the Fiscal Year 2013 enacted level – for information technology upgrades at regional offices to manage the improved paperless claims processing system; $90 million for potential overtime, and $10 million for additional training for claims processors; $88 million – a $13 million increase above the President’s request – for the Board of Veterans Appeals to address the growing appeals backlog; Provisions directing audits to assess performance and rigorous public monthly reporting requirements to track the performance of each regional office on claims processing. Construction – Minor Construction within the VA is funded at $715 million which is the same as the President’s request and $108 million above the Fiscal Year 2013 enacted level. This funding will allow the VA to make progress on hundreds of projects, including the construction or renovation of health clinics and nursing homes. In addition, the agreement provides an additional $85 million for non-recurring maintenance for medical facilities beyond the $710 million already provided in advance for Fiscal Year 2014. VA Mandatory Funding – The agreement fulfills mandatory funding requirements such as: veteran disability compensation programs for 4.2 million veterans and their survivors; post-9-11 GI bill education benefits for more than 764,000 veterans; and vocational rehabilitation and employment training for more than 175,000 veterans. Oversight – The legislation includes provisions to increase oversight of taxpayer dollars at the VA, including requiring the agency to report on construction expenditures and savings, forbidding changes in the scope of construction projects, and restricting the agency from taking certain spending actions without notifying Congress. Advance Appropriations for Veterans Medical Programs – The agreement contains $55.6 billion in advance fiscal year 2015 funding for the VA – the same level provided in the House budget resolution. This funding will provide for medical services, medical support and compliance, and medical facilities, and ensure that our veterans have continued, full access to their medical care. ###
01.15.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop Jr. (GA-02), member of the U.S. House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies, applauded the reappointment of James L. “Jimmy” Webb of Leary, Georgia, and the appointment of Benjamin R. Grimsley of Weston, Georgia as an alternate member to the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) Cotton Board. The Cotton Board is appointed by the U.S. Secretary of Agriculture to oversee the Cotton Research & Promotion Program. “Jimmy is a respected leader in the local, national, and international cotton industry, and I am proud that he will continue to represent Georgia on the Cotton Board,” said Congressman Bishop. “The Cotton Board is a valuable resource for cotton producers across the nation, and I am confident that Jimmy Webb, Benjamin Grimsley, and the other board members will continue to work with USDA and local farmers to empower the cotton industry.” Jimmy Webb has been an active leader in the cotton industry and served as the President of the Cotton Council International (CCI) in 2012. The Cotton Board enables farmers and ranchers to create and strengthen markets through research, development, and promotion programs funded by industry member assessments. It is managed by board members appointed by the U.S. Secretary of Agriculture. Each representative will serve a three-year term beginning January 1, 2014. For more information, please click here. ###
01.13.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop Jr. (GA-02), member of the U.S. House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies; Co-Chair of the Congressional Peanut Caucus; and Co-Chair of the Congressional Chicken Caucus welcomed Jerome Tucker as the new chair of the USDA Farm Service Agency (FSA) State Committee in Georgia. “While I am sorry that my good friend Ronnie Lee is leaving the chairmanship, I am thrilled that his excellent work will be continued by Jerome Tucker. It is important that we have the most knowledgeable and invested individuals working for Georgia, and FSA has chosen well with Tucker’s appointment,” said Congressman Bishop. “Ronnie and the board have been valuable FSA representatives and assets to local farmers, and I trust that the new leadership, in conjunction with Secretary Vilsack and the USDA, will continue to do their best to ensure the quality of farm policy across America.” Jerome Tucker replaces Ronald Lee as the Chairman of the USDA FSA State Committee of Georgia. Jaclyn Ford, Dr. Fred Harrison, and Reese Thompson are also members of the board. The Georgia Farm Service Agency State Committee oversees the farm program activities of USDA in Georgia. The members are appointed by the Secretary of Agriculture. They hear appeals from local farmers and guide the direction of farm program-related agency policy. ###
01.10.2014	Washington, D.C. – In order to keep the citizens of the 2nd Congressional District fully informed, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement regarding the successful conclusion of his temporary health issue: “As many of you know, in September of 2013 I was diagnosed with cancer in my neck and throat. Armed with my faith in the awesome healing power of God, starting on September 24th I began an intensive regimen of chemotherapy which concluded November 4th, designed to dissolve and kill the cancer cells so that the surgery to follow would require the removal of significantly less tissue from my neck and throat. My doctors at George Washington University Hospital had carefully searched for other areas of my body that might have been involved and found that it was limited to my neck. Dr. Robert Siegel, Director of Hematology and Oncology at George Washington University Hospital directed the chemotherapy. “During this process, thanks to great cooperation among my medical team at the Attending Physician's Office at the Capitol, the George Washington University Hospital medical team in Washington, and our great Congressional staff, this was accomplished without my having to miss a single vote or major event during this phase of my treatment. In fact, The Congressional Military Family Summit, a major event hosted by our Congressional office at The National Infantry Museum and Soldier Center in Columbus, Georgia on November 6th, went forward with my full participation and was without question one of the best events we have produced. “My surgery was scheduled for November 26th during the Congressional Thanksgiving Recess in order to minimize the inevitable down-time from hospitalization. Dr. Nader Sadeghi, Professor of Surgery and Director of Head and Neck Surgery at George Washington University Hospital performed the surgery which lasted more than 8 hours. He removed the primary tumor from the back of my mouth and removed 91 lymph nodes from both sides of my neck. The surgery was successful and without any complications and four days later I was discharged from the hospital to recuperate at home. I missed only two weeks of votes in the House of Representatives, the final two weeks before adjournment in December. “Analysis of the tissue removed during surgery revealed that the chemotherapy had successfully destroyed the cancer cells and that I am now cancer free with no need for further treatment! Only periodic monitoring on a declining basis over the next 5 years will be required. To God be the glory! “I am now back at work as your Representative and looking forward to continuing my ministry of public service to the people of the 2nd District of Georgia, now and for years to come. I will continue to wear my hair bald for an indefinite period as an expression of solidarity with cancer patients and survivors with whom I have shared a mutual chemotherapy experience. “My wife, Vivian, and our entire family would like to express our profound gratitude to all for your overwhelming outpouring of prayers and support. Our faith in God and your expressions of kindness gave us strength as we moved through the difficult period of treatment and recovery. Truly the fervent effectual prayers of the righteous availleth much. As the beneficiary, I can—and do—bear witness!” To read Congressman Bishop’s initial statement regarding his temporary health issue, please click here. ###
01.09.2014	Washington, D.C. – Today, on the 50th Anniversary of the commencement of President Lyndon B. Johnson’s War on Poverty, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop (GA-02) submitted a statement to the U.S. House of Representatives regarding the issue of poverty in America today. Below is the full text of Congressman Bishop’s statement: “On this day in 1964, President Johnson called on our nation to launch an ‘unconditional war on poverty’. Exactly 50 years later, we can state with confidence two truths. One, programs resulting from Johnson’s War on Poverty have improved the lives of Americas of all ages in innumerable ways. Two, the war on poverty has not been won. I submit that now is NOT the time to end our battle. Today, there are nearly 50 million Americans grappling with the economic and social hardships of living below the poverty line, including 13.4 million children. In my district in Southwest Georgia alone, more than one in four people and almost one of every two children fall below the poverty line. And yet without programs such as unemployment insurance, Rural Tax Credits, school lunch programs, affordable housing, Medicare, Medicaid, Job Corps, SNAP, TRIO, and others, where would we be? In Georgia alone: Over 29,000 children from low-income families would be without critical early stage developmental resources provided by Head Start and Early Head Start. Over 1.8 million low-income individuals and families would lose the ability to choose healthy food options through SNAP for themselves and their children. And so on. America’s War on Poverty has gone beyond just helping reduce our poverty rate. It has educated, fed, housed, and trained millions of Americans, giving them hope and preparing them for a more successful tomorrow. By many estimates, the reduction in poverty has drastically improved the quality of life for many Americans over the past 50 years. Lastly, and most importantly, we must remember that the label ‘poor’ means more than a cold numeric value attributed to one’s earning potential. We must remember that America’s poor have a face. That face exists today! They are the homeless, freezing in the cold, because their job does not pay enough to cover the rent or because they have no job. They are children who cannot concentrate at school because hunger fills their daytime thoughts. They are uninsured Americans who, before the passage of the Affordable Care Act, could not afford quality health insurance. They are hard working Americans just striving to make ends meet and, like the majority of us, gripped with the goal of creating a better life for themselves and loved ones. We cannot turn our back on them now. We must continue to fight the war on poverty—and we must win! We must rededicate ourselves to the values that Lyndon Johnson lifted up 50 years ago; values that set a moral standard for America and for which we still must strive, values that were given to us over 2000 years ago by Jesus in the parable of the Sheep and the Goats found in the 25th Chapter of Matthew: ‘For I was hungry and you gave me something to eat, I was thirsty and you gave me something to drink, I was a stranger and you invited me in, I needed clothes and you clothed me, I was sick and you looked after me, I was in prison and you came to visit me.….Truly, I tell you whatever you did for one of the least of these brothers and sisters of mine, you did for me.’ President Johnson took that to heart 50 years ago. And we today must do the same.” ###
12.10.2013	ALBANY, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) highlighted recent data that shows that there would be 478,000 fewer uninsured Georgians by 2016 if Georgia takes advantage of the Medicaid expansion opportunity provided under the Affordable Care Act. Due to provisions within the health care law, states are given the option to expand their Medicaid coverage to all adults with incomes below 133% of the national poverty level (around $32,000 for a family of four). If Georgia accepts the Medicaid funding, the state can receive 100% of federal funding to cover costs for the first three years and no less than 90% federal support for those costs in subsequent years. So far, Georgia has opted not to participate. “Expanding Medicaid is a smart choice for Georgia,” said Congressman Bishop. “It would mean almost half a million fewer uninsured Georgians, greater access to the services and support folks need to stay healthy, and a net savings for the state budget and for consumers.” A recent report by the Commonwealth Fund finds that by not expanding Medicaid, Georgia will forgo $4.9 billion in federal funding in 2022. Accounting for factors that reduce costs, the Kaiser Family Foundation finds that states as a whole are likely to see net savings from expanding Medicaid. Combining Medicaid costs with a conservative estimate of $18 billion in state and local non-Medicaid savings on uncompensated care, the Medicaid expansion would save states a total of $10 billion over 2013-2022. “Time is running out,” concluded Bishop. “I urge Georgia to reconsider its decision not to expand Medicaid coverage for our state and accept the federal benefits ready to assist the most vulnerable and at-risk Georgians.” So far, 26 States and the District of Columbia have accepted this Medicaid expansion opportunity, giving millions of Americans access to affordable health care. In fact, thanks to these states and the opening of the new Health Insurance Marketplaces, six in ten currently uninsured Americans will have access to health coverage for $100 per month or less next year. That number will rise to eight in ten if states that have previously decided not to expand Medicaid coverage – including Georgia – choose to accept the option to extend coverage to the most vulnerable within their state. ###
12.06.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop Jr. (GA-02), member of the U.S. House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies as well as Chair of the Congressional Peanut Caucus welcomed the seven new members of the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) appointed Peanut Standards Board. The seven representatives, appointed by USDA Secretary Tom Vilsack, will join the board comprised of 18 members representing the Southeast, Southwest, and Virginia-North Carolina regions of the U.S. “I am thrilled about the addition of these representatives to the Peanut Standards Board. It is important that we have the most knowledgeable and invested individuals advocating for the peanut industry,” said Congressman Bishop. “The board has been a valuable asset to USDA and peanut farmers, and I trust that these leaders, in conjunction with Secretary Vilsack and the USDA, will continue to do their best to ensure the quality of U.S. peanut production across America.” The Peanut Standards Board was authorized under the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002. It consults with the USDA about quality and handling standards for domestically produced and imported peanuts. One third of the board is appointed each year. For more information, please click here. ###
12.06.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) issued the following statement regarding the passing of anti-apartheid leader, activist, and former South African President Nelson Mandela. “Dr. King was my most admired hero until I learned of the life and legacy of Nelson Mandela. His courage, discipline, humility, and dignity in the face of his life’s struggles inspire me daily. His faith in God and commitment to the principles of freedom and justice for all are reflected in his favorite scripture from the Apostle Paul found in the 8th Chapter of Romans; ‘Neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor powers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor height, nor depth, nor any other creature, will be able to separate us from the love of God which is in Christ Jesus our Lord.’ He would not be separated from his principles of justice for all, no matter the cost. The world is truly a better place because of the example of his life. I send my deepest sympathies to his family and to the people of South Africa.” ###
11.27.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) issued the following statement regarding the upcoming Thanksgiving holiday on Thursday, November 28, 2013. “Thanksgiving is a wonderful time to reflect on all of the blessings afforded to us as Americans and as children of God. Personally, I am thankful for the Lord’s blessing of health as His hand guides me through this period with cancer as well as for my colleagues, friends, and family who have stood with me, never wavering in their strength and support,” said Congressman Bishop. “Let us use this holiday, not only as a time to break bread with our loved ones, but as a chance to assist our brethren in need and to send a prayer to our service members away during the holidays. It is my wish that everyone in Georgia, and across the entire country, enjoy a safe and happy Thanksgiving. God Bless.” ###
11.22.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – This week, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop (GA-02) supported two measures that will increase domestic energy production, create jobs, and reduce the high cost of energy for consumers: H.R. 2728, the Protecting States’ Rights to Promote American Energy Security Act; and H.R. 1900, the Natural Gas Pipeline Permitting Reform Act. Congressman Bishop voted in favor of both bills. “I have always held a long-standing commitment to lessening our dependence on foreign energy imports and decreasing energy costs, often working across the aisle to place dollars back in the pockets of hardworking Americans across our great nation,” said Congressman Bishop. “The passage of H.R. 2728 and H.R. 1900 are positive steps toward ensuring that the U.S. stays on the forefront of energy production and that new well-paying jobs continue to be available for industrious Americans.” H.R. 2728, Protecting States’ Rights to Promote American Energy Security Act: Rejects a one-size-fits-all federal regulation process by allowing states with carefully devised state-specific rules for energy production take into account the state's unique geography and energy production considerations when enforcing regulations on hydraulic fracturing of land for energy exploration, circumventing a costly and burdensome implementation of an unnecessary set of new regulations. H.R. 2728 passed 235 to 187. H.R. 1900, Natural Gas Pipeline Permitting Reform Act: Sets deadlines for the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to approve or deny a pipeline construction certificate within 12 months of receiving a complete application for a natural gas pipeline. If a decision has not been issued within the required time frame, approval will be automatically granted. This measure will codify existing regulations and bring certainty to businesses planning pipeline projects. H.R. 1900 passed 252 to 165. ###
11.12.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies and Co-chair of the Congressional Military Family Caucus (CMFC), released a statement honoring our nation's veterans in advance of the upcoming Veterans Day holiday. “On Veterans Day, we will gather to remember those Americans who have served our country with honor and distinction. We must remember that freedom isn’t free. It has been paid for with a price, and that price has been paid for by the sacrifice of our veterans. “Veterans are courageous, humble people of integrity who provide a foundation of patriotic citizenship that the country cannot do without. If the nation is not being served well, veterans always get busy and do everything possible to get it back on track. They refuse to be complacent at times when the country is not living up to its potential for greatness. “On this Veteran’s Day, we should take pause and give thanks to our veterans and their families of the past, present, and future for their dedication to serving our nation, defending our liberties, and sacrificing so much for the cause of life, liberty, and the pursuit of justice in our great nation.” ###
11.12.2013	COLUMBUS, GA – Today, Wednesday, November 6, 2013, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Co-chair of the Congressional Military Family Caucus (CMFC) and Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies hosted a Military Family Summit for over 200 members of the extended military family at the National Infantry Museum and Soldier Center near Fort Benning, Georgia. “Whenever I meet with military families, two people who frequently come to mind are my father-in-law and my wife,” said Congressman Bishop, “I mention my wife and her family’s experiences because often we tend to focus primarily on the service members who willingly put themselves in harm’s way to protect the freedoms we cherish. However, we cannot forget that the families they leave behind sacrifice just as much as our heroes who deploy on missions for our country. These families are impacted in countless ways – seen and unseen – and we have an obligation to do right by them.” Military families were introduced to Members of Congress, officials from the Department of Defense, and personnel from numerous military family support organizations to discuss pressing issues impacting them. Six panel discussions designed to open a dialogue for military families addressed critical issues such as family health, resiliency, spouse employment and education, military child education, transition assistance, retirement, benefits, and financial readiness for the future with attending military families. “The issues that will be discussed today…are truly informative to us, and are issues we will take back to Washington with us, because they are of national importance,” continued Congressman Bishop, “We have no choice but to see that our troops, veterans, and their families have the support they need. Together, I know we can get the job done.” Also joining Congressman Bishop in giving remarks were Congressman John Culberson (R-TX), member of the Congressional Military Family Caucus; Sergeant Major Bryan Battaglia, Senior Advisor to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs; Mrs. Lisa Battaglia, spouse of Sergeant Major Battaglia; Lt. General Joseph L. Lengyel, Vice Chief of the National Guard Bureau; Maj. Gen Jim Butterworth, Adjutant General of the Georgia National Guard; Mrs. Katie McMaster, spouse of MG H.R. McMaster of Fort Benning; COL (P) Leopoldo A. Quintas, Commandant of the US Army Armor School; LTG (Ret) Carmen Cavezza, Chairman of the National Infantry Foundation; MG (Ret) Jerry White, Chairman of the Academy Nominations Board; Isaiah Hugley, City Manager of Columbus; and Ed Helton, Executive Director of The Leadership Institute. The CMFC is a bipartisan congressional caucus that educates elected officials, congressional staffers, senior military leaders and the public on a wide range of unique issues that affect military families. Currently, over 80 Democrats and Republicans are members of the CMFC. To view or download photos from today’s event from today’s event, please click here. To view today’s live-tweet conversation, please click here. For more information about the Congressional Military Family Caucus, please click here. In his opening remarks, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. noted the importance of giving back to our nation’s veterans and military families. Below is the full text of Congressman Bishop’s prepared remarks: PREPARED REMARKS FOR THE HONORABLE SANFORD D. BISHOP, JR. CMFC FAMILY SUMMIT – NATIONAL INFANTRY MUSEUM COLUMBUS, GA - WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2013 Good morning! Thank you all for joining us this morning at today’s Congressional Military Family Caucus Summit! It’s a pleasure to be in a room with those who make America great – the brave families of service men and women who admirably defend our nation and safeguard our liberties. Today, I am honored to be joined by so many that care so deeply about the lives and wellbeing of military families. I want to thank everyone here that is taking part in today’s forums. To everyone visiting Columbus for the first time, welcome to our beautiful city! Today’s event would not have been possible without the assistance of the numerous contributions from this morning’s speakers, panelists, and support groups. Also, my staff, the staff at Columbus State University, and the staff of the National Infantry Museum have gone above and beyond to ensure today is a success. Thank you! Lastly and most of all, I would like to personally thank the service members, military families, and veterans that are here with us today. Our nation will forever be indebted to you for your service and countless selfless sacrifices. Founded several years ago, my colleagues in the Congressional Military Families Caucus and Senate Military Family Caucus, such as co-chair Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers and co-member Congressman John Culberson, find it important to educate elected officials, congressional staffers, senior military leaders, and the public on a wide range of issues that affect military families such as: The range of physical and psychological issues arisen over the last 12 years that our service members, their families, and caregivers deal with on a day by day basis. The challenges military parents and their children deal with during the process of frequent moves between different states and school districts, not to mention the obstacles to learning your child faces when a parent is deployed overseas. The unique difficulties surrounding re-certifications, licensing, or lack of transferability faced by so many of our military spouses when they want to continue their education and seek employment. To educating our service men and women with young families on how to properly budget finances, buy a house, invest in a thrift savings plan or IRA, save for your kids’ college expenses, and to not be taken advantage of by high interest predatory loans. And to families preparing to leave the military community and transition into the civilian world, away from the support of a military base. The transition can be difficult for a family if they are not prepared with the right employment, health care, and educational information. Since the Caucus’ founding in 2009, the Senate launched the Senate Military Family Caucus and the White House has joined ranks by creating the amazing Joining Forces initiative. And in case you haven’t heard—last week President Obama signed a proclamation officially naming November as Military Family Appreciation Month! The issues that will be discussed today in the panels are truly informative to us, and are issues we will take back to Washington with us, because they are of national importance. We hope that you will actively participate by listening, asking questions of the panelists, engaging in the discussions with our panels, visiting the resources section upstairs, and giving feedback after the summit. The stories you share and input you provide will help us to effectively work together to improve your quality of life and expand your opportunities. In closing, I will briefly share with you that whenever I meet with military families, two people who frequently come to mind are my father-in-law and my wife. My father-in-law served in the U.S. military for several years and my wife was a military child. In fact, when my wife was a child, her family moved every two or three years. She spent her formative years at home and overseas. The constant change of station impacted her family both positively and negatively. Due to all of her family’s travels, my wife grew-up as a very well-rounded child in that she was able to gain exposure to different people and various cultures. However, the flip side of the coin is that with the frequent travels her family was forced to address hard pressing issues such as saying goodbye to old friends and acclimating themselves to new re-assignment locations. I mention my wife and her family’s experiences because often we tend to focus primarily on the service members who willingly put themselves in harm’s way to protect the freedoms we cherish. However, we cannot forget that the families they leave behind sacrifice just as much as our heroes who deploy on missions for our country. These families are impacted in countless ways – seen and unseen – and we have an obligation to do right by them. I look forward to continuing the good work of the Military Family Caucus and the other 85 Members of Congress who make up this Caucus. We have no choice but to see that our troops, veterans, and their families have the support they need. Together, I know we can get the job done. Thank you all again for being here this morning and I very much look forward to today’s insightful dialogue. ###
10.29.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop (GA-02), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies, supported six measures to honor veterans and ensure access to resources needed for a successful transition into civilian life. H.R. 2189 passed 404 to 1. H.R. 2011, the Veterans’ Advisory Committee on Education Improvement Act, passed 404 to 2. H.R. 1405; H.R. 1742, the Vulnerable Veterans Housing Reform Act of 2013; H.R. 2481, the Veterans Economic Opportunity Act of 2013; and H.R. 3304 all passed by voice vote. Congressman Bishop voted in favor of passage for all six bills. “The VA disability claims backlog and issues surrounding homelessness have plagued our veterans for too long,” said Congressman Bishop. “In addition to formally honoring these brave men and women, it is my hope that these six pieces of legislation will tear down obstacles veterans face every day, and help secure these matters as priorities in the future.” H.R. 2189: Establishes a commission or task force to evaluate how to reduce the backlog of disability claims of the Department of Veterans Affairs. H.R. 1405: Requires the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to include an appeals form in any notice of decision for denial of benefit sought. H.R. 1742, the Vulnerable Veterans Housing Reform Act of 2013: Prohibits service-related disability benefits and expenses to be considered when calculating income eligibility for Section 8 rental assistance and public housing programs. H.R. 2481, the Veterans Economic Opportunity Act of 2013: Extends certain homeless veterans reintegration programs until 2018, expands education benefits for survivors of deceased service members, and creates an office within the Veterans Affairs Department to administer assistance with vocational and education programs. H.R. 2011, the Veterans’ Advisory Committee on Education Improvement Act: Extends the operating authority of the Veterans’ Advisory Committee on Education through 2015, and authorizes the Veterans Affairs Department to advise training and rehabilitation for veterans with service-related disabilities. H.R. 3304: Requests the President award Bennie G. Adkins and Donald P. Sloat of the United States Army with the Medal of Honor for their acts during the Vietnam Conflict, and authorizes the award of the Medal of Honor to other veterans previously recommended. In efforts to further support and provide resources to members of the military and their families, Congressman Bishop will be hosting a Military Family Summit at Fort Benning, GA on November 6. For more information, please click here. ###
10.24.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) worked to improve access to Georgia water resources by supporting the bipartisan passage of H.R. 3080, the Water Resources Reform and Development Act (WRDA). The legislation includes provisions authorizing the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to start work on the $652 million Savannah Harbor Expansion Project which will deepen 30 miles of the Savannah River to improve shipping access to the Savannah Harbor. “In addition to improving access to critical waterways, this bill will create jobs and boost our economy by opening access to vital infrastructure projects across the country,” said Congressman Bishop. “The Savannah Port will be a major driver of economic development throughout the entire state. Dredging of the Savannah River is long overdue, and once this bill is enacted into law, larger cargo ships will be one step closer to traveling and trading through our world-class port.” H.R. 3080 authorizes the construction of 23 U.S. Army Corps of Engineers water resource related projects; establishes new processes for water selection, permitting, and project deauthorization; encourages non-federal participation in developing water infrastructure by establishing a pilot program for private-public partnerships; and other measures. U.S. Army Corps of Engineers water resource related projects include the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project with an estimated federal cost of $461 million and an estimated non-federal cost of $201 million. The bill passed the House 417 to 3. The United States Senate approved its own version of the legislation on May 15, 2013 by a vote of 83 to 14. ###
10.23.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford Bishop Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement regarding the passing of Congressman Major R. Owens (NY-11): “With the passing of Congressman Major Owens, we have lost an exceptional community leader, public servant, and friend. A tireless crusader for the underserved and less empowered, Congressman Owens worked throughout his career to improve the lives of marginalized communities across the nation through reform and social change. “The crucial role Congressman Owens played in both drafting and passing the Americans with Disabilities Act ensured that millions of Americans living and working with disabilities would not face discrimination. I am sure he will be remembered as one who dedicated his career to protect, empower, and secure the rights of all people. “On a personal note, Major and I were both colleagues in the CBC and graduates of Morehouse College. My wife Vivian worked with Maria in the spouses’ organization. His service to our country, and our shared friendship, will never be forgotten. Our prayers are with his wife Maria and the Owens family during this very difficult time.” Congressman Major Owens passed away on October 22, 2013 at the age of 77. He served in the U.S. House of Representatives from 1983 to 2007 as the Representative for New York’s 11th Congressional District in Brooklyn, NY. ###
10.22.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), member of the U.S. House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies, welcomed Dr. Nathaniel Tablante, a career veterinarian, to his Washington, D.C. office. He will serve as an American Association for the Advancement of Sciences (AAAS) and American Veterinary Medical Association (AVMA) Fellow, advising the Congressman on key issues facing his district. “We are blessed to have Nat join us as a Fellow in our D.C. Congressional office, and I look forward to tapping his wealth of knowledge regarding issues important to Georgia and Rural America,” said Congressman Bishop. “The expertise he brings in the fields of agriculture and veterinary health makes him a great asset and an invaluable resource to our team, and I am excited to welcome such a talented and experienced individual to our office.” “I am truly grateful for the opportunity Congressman Bishop has given me to serve in his office as an AAAS/AVMA Fellow this year,” said Nathaniel Tablante. “I am eager to learn more about the legislative process while making a positive contribution to the Congressman’s team, the citizens of the 2nd Congressional District of Georgia, and the rest of rural America, particularly on issues regarding poultry health, agriculture, food safety, education, development grants, and trade” Dr. Tablante has over 30 years of experience as a veterinarian, specializing in poultry, health management, epidemiology, and biosecurity. He holds a Doctorate of Veterinary Medicine from the University of the Philippines, a Master of Preventive Veterinary Medicine from the University of California-Davis, and a Master of Science from the University of Guelph. The AAAS/AVMA Fellowship allows fellows to actively participate in the legislative process, counseling members of Congress on issues facing the veterinary profession and public health, for one year. ###
10.22.2013	Macon, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement announcing the awarding of a new and continuing grant from the Department of Labor to assist Central Georgia Technical College in Macon, Georgia. A total of 57 grants were awarded throughout the United States through the Trade Adjustment Assistance Community College and Career Training grant program. These grants are used to promote quality targeted trade programs that focus on unemployed workers seeking further skills training. “I am very grateful for these grants and the positive impact they will have on our unemployment rate and post-secondary education initiatives in Middle Georgia,” said Congressman Bishop. “I commend the Department of Labor for its commitment to increasing access to targeted training for America’s workers. Skills training programs and partnerships with educational institutions will strengthen the American workforce and contribute to long-term economic growth.” “We are very excited and honored to have been selected as one of the few colleges in Georgia to receive this round of grant funding from the Department of Labor. These opportunities will be open to all students, but our special target groups are veterans, unemployed individuals, and displaced workers as a result of jobs moving overseas,” said Dr. Amy Holloway, vice president for Academic Affairs at Central Georgia Technical College. “By leveraging our existing partnerships with local healthcare providers and our local chambers of commerce, we can create affordable, short-term training programs that target the needs of healthcare employers and help transition these individuals back into the workplace. This is good news for our college and community.” The Department of Labor granted a continuing award of $2,622,429 to Central Georgia Technical College to create and expand online training programs. The proposed project will be designed for TAA-eligible workers, veterans, and other adult learners to obtain certification necessary for careers in the health care industry. The grant will support implementation of the Central Georgia Healthcare Workforce Alliance, a local workforce network to provide training for careers in health services/health sciences. The funding will be used to expand support services, such as tutoring, and to upgrade instructional technology infrastructure so that healthcare training can be provided across Central Georgia Technical College’s 11-county service area. The Trade Adjustment Assistance Community College and Career Training Program is a multiyear initiative to expand targeted training programs for unemployed workers in order to prepare them for employment in high skill, high wage occupations in fields such as advanced manufacturing, transportation and health care, as well as science, technology, engineering and math careers through partnerships between training providers and local employers. The U.S. Department of Labor is implementing and administering the program in coordination with the U.S. Department of Education. ###
10.22.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released a statement regarding the election of Lorraine C. Miller as the interim President and Chief Executive Officer of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP): “A dear friend of long standing, Lorraine has always demonstrated a keen intellect and professionalism,” said Congressman Bishop. “More importantly for these times, she is a consensus builder and a problem solver and is the perfect leader to take on the many challenges ahead. The NAACP has chosen wisely to select Lorraine Miller as its interim President and CEO.” Lorraine Miller is the first African-American to serve as an officer of the U.S. House of Representatives. Miller has had nearly two decades of experience working for the House, and also served in the White House Office of Legislative Affairs during the Clinton Administration. In 2004, Miller was elected president of the Washington, D.C. Branch NAACP and became part of the NAACP National Board of Directors in February of 2008. ###
10.22.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (D-GA) released the following statement regarding the passing of Congressman Bill Young (R-FL): “A staunch supporter of our military, a true champion for his District, and a fount of knowledge about the chronicles of the U.S. House, Bill Young will be missed in Washington as well as in Florida. He, along with the late Congressman Jack Murtha, were not only great friends and mentors to me but their wives, Beverly and Joyce, were also friends and mentors to my wife, Vivian. “Murtha and Young were neither Democrat nor Republican when it came to our national defense. Regardless of which was the Chairman or Ranking Member of the Defense Subcommittee, the men and women of America’s military would be taken care of. With Bill Young’s death, the nation has truly lost one of the few remaining statesmen. Our thoughts and prayers are with Beverly and the entire family.” Congressman for the Tampa Bay area from 1971 until 2013, Bill Young served as Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense and was the longest serving Republican member of Congress at the time of his passing. ###
10.17.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) issued the following statement regarding the recent bipartisan passage of a temporary budget deal (Senate Amendments to H.R. 2775) to avert disaster by re-funding government services until January 15, 2014 and avoiding default by extending the borrowing limit of the United States until February 7, 2014. While this is only a temporary measure, it reopens the government, relieves the threat of the first ever default on our nation’s debt, and will allow Senate and House budget conferees from both parties the opportunity to negotiate a long term solution for America’s dire fiscal crisis in a more constructive environment. “Emerging from Congress’ seemingly endless deadlock, I applaud the President and my colleagues in the House and Senate for their extraordinary effort in reaching a path to reopen government, cancel furloughs, and raise the debt ceiling,” said Congressman Bishop. “With the lessons of this government shutdown revealed, I remain hopeful that Congress will learn from its mistakes, go into conference, and produce a reasonable, balanced budget that alleviates sequestration, creates jobs, reduces the deficit, and restores stability to our economy for the benefit of all Americans across our great nation.” The Senate Amendments to H.R. 2775 will allow a bipartisan conference committee of the House and the Senate to continue talks on balanced deficit reduction and replacement of sequestration; provide for a suspension of the debt limit until February 7, 2014; authorize back pay for federal workers furloughed during the shutdown; give additional funding for the Veterans Affairs Department to provide overtime pay to reduce the claims backlog; and to require an expanded income verification process for individuals and businesses eligible for premium assistance under the Affordable Care Act. The deal also gives Congress the ability to vote to deny the Treasury’s extended borrowing authority through February 7, 2014, subject to a Presidential veto. Congressman Bishop voted in favor of the Senate Amendments to H.R. 2775. The measure passed the Senate 81 to 18; passed the House 285 to 144; and has been signed by the President. The government is expected to be opened today, providing relief to federal workers, veterans, seniors, families, small business, and communities in Georgia and across America. ###
10.16.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. –Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), on behalf of the peanut and cotton industries, urged Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack to use his discretion and not impose a 5.1% reduction to the marketing assistance loan to growers and buyers. Secretary Vilsack announced on September 30, 2013 that as of October 1, 2013, the proceeds of marketing assistance loans (MAL’s) would be reduced by 5.1% and loan processing will be suspended for up to two weeks or more while computer software is updated - - both of which are exacerbated by the current government shutdown. “While I understand there is a requirement to reduce outlays through sequestration, applying sequestration to [MALs] is unlikely to achieve any significant savings since loans are repaid with principal and interest,” wrote Congressman Bishop. “The impact of these actions will have a severe effect on the peanut and cotton industries in my district and nationwide, with a negligible contribution to budget savings.” Each year during cotton and peanut harvest, marketing assistance loans allow growers to securely market their yield while still being able to run the day-to-day operations of a farm. Reductions in the marketing loan assistance program could likely force a de facto reduction in loan rates, resulting in price reduction by up to $18.11 per ton for peanut producers, while cotton producers could lose $13.00 per bale. Congressman Bishop is a member of the U.S. House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies. Please find the text of the letter to Secretary Vilsack attached.
10.11.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – In order to keep citizens of the 2nd Congressional District fully informed, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement regarding what is expected to be a temporary, yet serious, health issue: “During the summer, I noticed a small lump in my neck near my shirt collar. My doctors conducted some diagnostic tests and discovered that the lump was a lymph node that was involved with a cancer that started in my throat. Last month, I began a course of chemotherapy to shrink the tumor that will be followed by a surgery to remove any that remains. “My doctors at the George Washington University Hospital, near the Capitol, carefully searched for other areas of my body that might be involved and found that it was limited to my neck. They are optimistic that this tumor will be cured and my therapy will conclude in the next few months. While this is a serious health condition, my faith in God and confidence in my medical team in Washington, and at home, make me equally optimistic. “I do not expect to be away from my duties for more than a brief period and look forward to continuing my ministry of public service to the people of the 2nd District as your Representative, now and for years to come. “My wife, Vivian, and our entire family thank you for your prayers and support as we move through this period of treatment and recovery.” ###
10.09.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Co-Chair of the Congressional Military Family Caucus, took to the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives to uphold the government’s obligation to military families who have lost a loved one in service to our nation. Congressman Bishop joined a bipartisan group of fourteen Republicans and Democrats as an original co-sponsor of H.J. Resolution 91, a bill to amend the Pay Our Military Act by allowing the Department of Defense to disburse the standard survivor benefits to families of fallen service members, despite the government shutdown. H.J. Resolution 91 passed 425 to 0. “Imagine the pain these families are going through, coping with the death of their loved one. Now imagine being greeted with the cold shoulder of a shuttered government. Their country turning on them, all because of an unnecessary shutdown,” said Congressman Bishop. “This is not minimal. These are our sons and daughters we have sent to combat in faraway lands and they should never have to question our nation’s resolve in taking care of their families. We must reopen our government so that such inconveniences do not continue to plague our nation.” To view Congressman Bishop’s full remarks, please click here. On Sunday, our nation lost four brave service members in an improvised bomb attack in Kandahar Province, Afghanistan. Shortly after they were killed, their families were notified that the standard survivor benefits could not be paid due to the government shutdown. Yesterday, Congressman Bishop co-sponsored a similar bill, the Fallen Heroes and Families Assistance Act. To read more, please click here. Congressman Bishop also released a statement regarding the news of the deaths of 1st Lt. Jennifer M. Moreno, Sgt. Patrick C. Hawkins, Sgt. Joseph M. Peters, and Pfc. Cody J. Patterson, killed in an improvised bomb attack in Kandahar Province, Afghanistan. Sgt. Hawkins and Pfc Patterson were both assigned to the 3rd Battalion, 75th Ranger Regiment at Fort Benning, GA. To read the statement, please click here. ###
10.09.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. –Today, Rep. Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (D-GA), Co-Chair of the Congressional Military Family Caucus, stood up for military families by joining Rep. Ron Barber (D-AZ), Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR), Rep. Christopher Gibson (R-NY), Rep. Danny Heck (D-WA), Rep. Lou Barletta (R-PA), Rep. Gwen Moore (D-WI), and Rep. Juan Vargas (D-CA) as an original co-sponsor of the Fallen Heroes and Families Assistance Act, a bill to amend the Pay Our Military Act by requiring the Department of Defense to disburse the standard survivor benefits to families of fallen service members. On Sunday, our nation lost four brave service members in an improvised bomb attack in Kandahar Province, Afghanistan. Shortly after they were killed, their families were notified that the standard survivor benefits could not be paid due to the government shutdown. “This is a disgrace and an outrage,” said Congressman Bishop. “These brave service members gave their lives in defense of our country and we hold an obligation that their families will be cared for. Now, due to the shutdown, that sacred commitment has been broken and abandoned. We must fix this grave injustice, pass this bipartisan bill for our nation’s military families, and open the government once again for all Americans!” The Fallen Heroes and Families Assistance Act would require the Department of Defense pay out standard death gratuity, monetary reimbursement for funeral expenses, payment of Survivor Basic Allowance for Housing (BAH), monetary reimbursement for funeral travel, and monetary reimbursement for travel associated with dignified transfer, in spite of the government shutdown. The Leadership has drafted another bill with similar language, which is expected to be introduced and acted upon by the full House of Representatives in the next few days. Congressman Bishop has been invited to co-sponsor that bill as well. Earlier today, Congressman Bishop released a statement regarding the news of the deaths of 1st Lt. Jennifer M. Moreno, Sgt. Patrick C. Hawkins, Sgt. Joseph M. Peters, and Pfc. Cody J. Patterson, killed in an improvised bomb attack in Kandahar Province, Afghanistan. Sgt. Hawkins and Pfc Patterson were both assigned to the 3rd Battalion, 75th Ranger Regiment at Fort Benning, GA. To read the statement, please click here. ###
10.08.2013	FORT BENNING, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement lamenting the deaths of 1st Lt. Jennifer M. Moreno, Sgt. Patrick C. Hawkins, Sgt. Joseph M. Peters, and Pfc. Cody J. Patterson, killed in an improvised bomb attack in Kandahar Province, Afghanistan. Sgt. Hawkins and Pfc Patterson were both assigned to the 3rd Battalion, 75th Ranger Regiment at Fort Benning, GA. "I am deeply saddened to learn of the deaths of 1st Lt. Jennifer M. Moreno, Sgt. Patrick C. Hawkins, Sgt. Joseph M. Peters, and Pfc. Cody J. Patterson in Afghanistan,” said Congressman Bishop. “While their sacrifice reflects the strength, courage, and bravery of our armed forces, their personal legacy will remain for years to come. Our grateful nation's thoughts and prayers go out to their families, friends, and units during this difficult time of loss." ###
10.07.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop (GA-02) stood up for our nation’s furloughed federal employees and voted in favor of H.R. 3223, the Federal Employee Retroactive Pay Fairness Act. The bill would retroactively compensate Federal employees furloughed as a result of the government shutdown, which began on October 1, 2013. “Our nation’s federal employees are not political bargaining chips. They are a national treasure and should not be penalized for this unnecessary government shutdown,” said Congressman Bishop. “I am still concerned that the Majority refuses to end government shutdown by passing a clean government funding bill. In the meantime, I am proud to be able to support our federal employees and aim to fulfill our obligation to those who protect our borders, monitor our food supply, preserve our environment, maintain our national security, and perform all other services provided by our Federal Government.” H.R. 3223 was approved by a vote of 407 to 0. It now goes to the United States Senate for its consideration. ###
10.03.2013	Washington, D.C. – Last night, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop (GA-02), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee of Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies, took to the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives to fight for a Fiscal year (FY) 2014 Continuing Resolution (CR) that funds the entire federal government and keeps it open for all Americans. The measure under consideration, House Joint Resolution (H.J. Res.) 72, would have reduced veterans’ programs by $6.2 billion as compared to the FY 2014 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations bill that was approved in June of 2013 by an overwhelming bipartisan vote of 421 to 4. Under House rules, H.R. Res 72 failed to reach the necessary two-thirds vote to approve the measure and send it to the United States Senate for its consideration. To view a video of Congressman Bishop’s floor remarks from yesterday evening, please click here. For more information regarding the FY 2014 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations bill, please click here. Please note the transcript of Congressman Bishop’s floor remarks below: “I yield myself such time as I may consume. “Mr. Speaker, this I believe is really a fraud. This is just a part of the cynical game that has been played to justify keeping this government shut. The proposed rate of $2.5 billion is the same amount provided in the House-passed MilCon/VA bill earlier this summer, which passed 421 to 4. It is the same funding request level by the administration, and this CR does not touch or do anything for the remaining VA discretionary accounts. “In fact, the CR fails to include $155 million for veterans’ benefits management system, it fails to include $136 million for the Veterans’ Claims Intake Program. These two programs are vital to speeding up the claims process, yet they’re not included. The medical research account: not included. Construction, major and minor: not included. Office of the Secretary, including the Board of Veterans’ Appeals, $438 million: not included. The VA Office of the Inspector General, $116 million: not included. The VA IT, [$3.68] billion: not included. Grants to state veterans’ homes, to state cemeteries, the National Cemetery Administration: not included. “On June 4, we passed a full bill, a complete bill, a bipartisan bill, 421 to 4. Mr. Speaker, if this measure goes on to become law, which I doubt that it will, a majority of the federal government will still be shut down. For example, the Department of Defense will not have the material support needed to conduct training to ensure the readiness for the forces at home. Regular training exercises, including large-scale training rotations, depend on equipment that is in proper working order, facilities that have been properly maintained, and supplies needed to support the soldiers, the sailors, the marines, and the airmen in their training efforts. Under this bill, pay would still be denied to more than 42,500 federal law enforcement agencies and correctional workers at the Department of Justice, 4,000 weather forecasters and other National Weather Service employees. And other extreme weather events, we won’t have employees to protect us. “Mr. Speaker, Members of Congress, we don’t have the luxury to pick and choose which parts of the federal government we want to fund. It’s our responsibility under the Constitution to fund the entire federal government. Let me repeat, the entire federal government. So instead of playing games, let the House of Representatives vote on a clean Senate CR and end this shutdown very quickly. “I’m disappointed, I’m downright disgusted. I truly resent the way that those on the other side of the aisle are trying to use veterans as pawns in this cynical game of government shutdown. All we have to do is pass a clean CR. This CR, this budget, should not be a Democrat CR, it should not be a Republican CR, it should be an American CR for all of us. I urge that we defeat this cynical effort and we adopt a full clean CR. With that, I reserve the balance of my time.” “I thank you very much. We live in the greatest country on the face of the earth. We enjoy freedoms that no – they enjoy no place else like in America. But freedom is not free. The freedoms we enjoy were bought with a price, and that was the price of the men and women who sacrificed, and I am very very saddened tonight that our colleagues would use and would hide behind the garment of sacrifice of those veterans and put forth a CR that does not fund, as the Senate CR does, the discretionary budget fully, the mandatory budget fully. But theirs, this CR will not. I urge the defeat of it, and let’s not allow them to hide behind the sacrifice of our veterans.” ###
10.01.2013	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop (GA-02) released a statement regarding the failure of Congress to pass a budget or ‘continuing resolution’ to fund the government and keep services open for all Americans: “As you may have heard, rather than seek a bipartisan consensus, a small minority in the United States Congress resorted to brinksmanship at the eleventh hour in order to achieve their goals, forcing the government to shutdown. Frankly, I do not believe the Founders of our great nation intended for Congress to shun its constitutional and moral responsibility to keep the government operating for all Americans. It’s no wonder that the American people are mighty fed up. “This partisan bickering is threatening the livelihoods of millions of Americans, rattling the stock market, threatening investments, and potentially disrupting our long-term economic recovery. Locally, many vital services that veterans, seniors, families, small business, and our communities rely on for healthcare, education, and economic development will be delayed. Federal offices have closed and many hard-working Americans are going unpaid. “Everyday Americans employed by the Federal Government will be met with hardship at work and at home. Rent, taxes, mortgages, children’s tuition, food, and travel all will be impacted as paychecks are delayed. As hundreds of thousands of employees wait for their pay, local economies and communities will feel the brunt of Congress’ failure to pass a funding bill. “Recalling the lessons we learned after the last government shutdown in 1995-1996, I remember first-hand how it affected Middle and Southwest Georgia. It didn’t make sense then and it surely doesn’t make sense now. I remain hopeful that we can stop this manufactured crisis and end this Republican government shutdown for the good of the American people.” As a guide on affected government programs, please note the designations below on what services will be affected during this government shutdown: U.S. Military: Nearly 1.4 million active duty military personnel deployed at home and overseas defending our nation’s interests will be paid for their work during the shutdown, but civilian employees are subject to furloughs. Federal Workers: Hundreds of thousands of Federal employees are immediately and indefinitely furloughed, and many Federal employees and contractors that continue to work will not be paid during the shutdown, including many at Fort Benning, the Marine Corps Logistics Base in Albany, and Robins Air Force Base. National Parks and Museums: All national parks and federal wildlife refuges are closed for the duration of the shutdown, including the Jimmy Carter National Historic Site and the Andersonville National Historic Site. About 9 million visitors were turned away from parks, museums, and monuments run by the National Park Service in the mid-1990s, the last time the government shut down temporarily. Head Start: 19,000 children have been left without Head Start Services. Housing: Housing loans to low and middle income families in rural and urban communities are put on hold, as will start-up business loans for farmers and ranchers. Jobs and Small Business: SBA will stop approving applications for small businesses to obtain loans and loan guarantees. In a typical month, SBA approves over $1 billion in loan assistance to small businesses. Army Corps of Engineers construction has stopped, hurting private companies, preventing job creation, and forcing closure or reduced hours for 2,500 Corps of Engineers Sites. Veterans Services: Most services offered through the Department of Veterans Affairs will continue, though they may be delayed due to furloughs. Additionally, VA claim processor’s output could drop from 6500 to 4500 claims a day, decreasing the VA’s effectiveness of cutting into its claims backlog. Operators will continue to staff the crisis hotline and claims workers will still process payments to cover disability and pension benefits. Those veterans appealing the denial of disability benefits to the Board of Veterans Appeals will have to wait longer for a decision because the Board will not issue any decisions during a shutdown. Medicare, Medicaid, Social Security: Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid and other mandatory programs will not be affected for existing recipients, though providers’ payments to doctors and hospitals may be delayed. Processing of new applications and other administrative duties may be delayed due to furloughs. Science: Important government research into life-threatening diseases, environmental protection, and other areas would be halted. NASA will furlough almost all of its employees, but it will continue to keep workers at Mission Control in Houston and elsewhere to support the International Space Station. Mail: Deliveries would continue as usual because the U.S. Postal Service receives no tax dollars for day-to-day operations. It relies on income from stamps and other postal fees to operate. Courts: Federal courts will continue to operate normally for about 10 business days after the start of a shutdown. If the shutdown continues, the judiciary will have to begin furloughs of employees whose work is not considered essential. Cases will continue to be heard. The U.S. Supreme Court also is scheduled to begin its new term on October 7. In previous government shutdowns, it continued to operate as normal. For more information, please refer to the Congressional Research Service guide, “Shutdown of the Federal Government: Causes, Processes, and Effects.” ### Please click here to access my guide, Government Shutdown: What You Need to Know.
10.01.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement today in recognition of the First Annual Tri-City Latino Festival, which was held on September 21, 2013 in Columbus, Georgia: “The First Annual Tri-City Latino Festival was a magnificent success and the beginning of a wonderful new tradition in the tri-city area of Columbus, Georgia; Fort Benning, Georgia; and Phenix City, Alabama. Our area has long had an exigent need for an event such as this to promote and celebrate the diversity within the area. I am looking forward to joining in on the festivities for years to come.” Congressman Bishop submitted a statement to the Congressional Record and it was presented to the founders, Columbus City Councilor Evelyn “Mimi” Woodson and Mr. Harold “Lefty” Encarnacion, at the event. The text of the Congressional Record Statement can be found below. ### Congressional Record Statement In Celebration of the 1st Annual Tri-City Latino Festival in Columbus, Georgia Mr. Bishop (GA) – Mr. Speaker, I rise today to salute the start of a new tradition in Columbus, Georgia, the 1st Annual Tri-City Latino Festival, which will be held on Saturday, September 21, 2013 at the South Commons at 400 4th Street in Columbus, Georgia. The festival is being supported by the tri-city area of Columbus, Georgia, Fort Benning, Georgia and Phenix City, Alabama. The festival will celebrate diversity within the Latino cultures found in the tri-city communities. The Tri-City Latino Festival came about from a vision to unite people from all walks of life for one unique purpose. This dream was shared by Harold “Lefty” Encarnacion and Evelyn “Mimi” Woodson and together, they began working to make it a reality. They brought on Carlos Huertas and created a board of members to form a plan of action. Unfortunately, a number of difficulties arose and the board faded out of existence. But the original members were persistent. After overcoming these obstacles, they formed a new group and consulted with Columbus Mayor Teresa Tomlinson, who was enthusiastic about supporting the event. Unfortunately, another obstacle presented itself and the event had to be cancelled again. However, the group brought on Roberto “Tito” Aron to contribute his talents and expertise. The group consulted with the Panamanian Association of Columbus, Georgia, who was thrilled to sponsor the event, and the planning continued in full force, culminating in this magnificent occasion. The Tri-City Latino Festival will kick off with a 5k Run at 10:00 a.m. There will be an opening ceremony at noon, followed by a Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu tournament, Señorita beauty contest, Zumba demonstration and dominoes tournament. There will also be art displays by local high schools and a Kid’s Zone for children. In the evening, there will be a main show by an international recording artist, followed by cultural dances, a dance contest, and performances by local and international musical groups. It is sure to be a day filled with innovative, vibrant and enjoyable displays of Latino art, talent and culture. The tri-city area has long had an exigent need for an event such as this. A large number of Hispanic countries are represented in the tri-city area, and this is a great opportunity to educate the community about them and celebrate the vibrant and diverse cultures. Our nation is struggling today because of inefficient and ineffective laws from the past, a disagreement about how to address the consequences, and a divided interest in what is best for the future of America. These incongruities have a harsh effect on the lives of millions of people every day. A mother worries she will be separated from her children, a father puts in long, grueling hours of hard labor just to put food on the table, a high school graduate is denied the chance to go to college, all because they are unable to become citizens or legal residents of the country they call home. In the past year, our nation has taken a step forward in trying to repair our immigration system and lay the groundwork for a prosperous future. We cannot afford to lose the momentum we’ve gained and many working immigrant families cannot afford to continue to live in uncertainty. It is imperative that we continue working to keep the American dream in reach for all those who seek it. A Spanish proverb often cited says, “A mal tiempo, buena cara” or “in bad weather, a head held high.” I believe this proverb is very accurate of the Latino people here in our area. In the face of adversity, they keep their good spirits and work harder, push longer, and believe greater. I am proud to be a part of an area that thrives on its diversity and unites members of the community to honor the struggle, sacrifice and success of their ancestors from Spain, Mexico, the Caribbean, and Central and South America. This partnership between Columbus, Phenix City and Fort Benning has fostered the spirit of community that is so deeply anchored in these ancestral roots. Mr. Speaker, I ask that my colleagues join me in saluting the residents of Columbus and Fort Benning, Georgia and Phenix City, Alabama as they come together to celebrate the 1st Annual Tri-City Latino Festival. This spirited celebration is sure to be the beginning of a great tradition that brings people of all walks of life together to celebrate diversity, to rejoice at how far we have come as a society, and to reflect upon how far we have yet to go.
09.30.2013	Washington, D.C. – This morning, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop (GA-02), the Ranking Member of the U.S. House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies opposed House Amendments to Senate Amendment to House Joint Resolution (H.J. Res.) 59, the Continuing Resolution for Fiscal Year (FY) 2014. The measure, as amended, links the continued funding for most government operations through December 15, 2013 to a one-year delay of key provisions of the Affordable Care Act. In addition, H.J. Res. 59 continues the harmful sequester cuts to vital programs affecting veterans, students, senior citizens, and low-income children. The amendment pertaining to delaying the implementation of the Affordable Care Act was approved by a vote of 231 to 192, although both the United States Senate and the President have indicated that they will oppose the CR with its inclusion. “The American people are mighty fed up with this partisan bickering, which is threatening the livelihoods of millions of Americans and will potentially disrupt our economic recovery,” said Congressman Bishop. “Rather than seeking bipartisan consensus, a small minority in the United States Congress have resorted to brinksmanship in the eleventh hour in order to achieve their goals. I do not believe the Founders of our great nation intended for Congress to shun our Constitutional and moral responsibility to fund the government. And so, instead of this dangerous course of action, it is time for us to work together and do the job the American people expect us to do.” If the FY 2014 Continuing Resolution is not enacted into law by the beginning of the fiscal year at 12:01 AM on Tuesday, October 1, 2013, the federal government will shut down and more than 800,000 federal workers would face furloughs. Nearly 1.4 million active duty military personnel deployed at home and overseas also would not receive their paychecks. In addition, closing the federal government would lead to the closure of our own nation’s 401 national parks; the disruption of veterans disability payments; the suspension of approval of Small Business Administration loan applications; and a shortage of funds for food and nutritional support for millions of pregnant women, new mothers, infants, and young children. Furthermore the cost to taxpayers of a government shutdown would be $150 million per day. ###
09.26.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released a statement regarding the passing of Mrs. Evelyn Lowery, wife of the Reverend Joseph Lowery. “Mrs. Evelyn Lowery was an extraordinary woman. Her quiet leadership made a profound impact on the nation and the world,” said Congressman Bishop. “Not only was she a pillar of strength with love and devotion for Rev. Lowery and his work with the Civil Rights Movement, but her leadership and support of women in the Movement reflected her personal commitment to gender equality as part of the larger Human Rights Movement. Our prayers go out to Dr. Joseph Lowery and his family during this difficult time.” Mrs. Lowery founded the Southern Christian Leadership Conference/Women’s Organizational Movement for Equality Now, Inc. (SCLC/W.O.M.E.N.). Through the organization, she created the Drum Major for Justice Award, an annual award recognizing outstanding people who have made contributions to social justice. She led the establishment of monuments in various parts of Alabama to honor those who were instrumental in the Civil Rights Movement. In addition, she spearheaded many education and awareness projects and programs. Mrs. Evelyn Lowery passed away on Thursday, September 26, 2013. Funeral arrangements are pending. ###
09.24.2013	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop (GA-02) opposed House Joint Resolution (H. J. Res.) 59, The Continuing Resolution for Fiscal Year (FY) 2014. The legislation linked the continued funding for most government operations through December 15, 2013 to permanently defunding the Affordable Care Act. In addition, H. J. Res. 59 continues the harmful sequester cuts to vital programs affecting veterans, students, senior citizens, and low-income children. According to the Congressional Budget Office, the continuance of sequestration will cost the nation up to 1.6 million jobs by the end of FY 2014 and seriously harm the economy. The legislation was approved by a vote of 230 to 189. “Our nation’s economy and the continued functioning of the federal government should not be held hostage to proponents of sequestration and defunding health reform,” said Congressman Bishop. “I remain hopeful that cooler heads ultimately will prevail and a clean continuing resolution that simply funds the government without any harmful provisions soon will be enacted. The American people deserve better than this partisan brinksmanship.” Defunding the Affordable Care Act would wreak havoc on millions of seniors, people with disabilities, children, and pregnant women by disrupting provider payments under Medicare, Medicaid, and the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP). It also would end the Medicare benefit improvements enacted under the health care law such as additional prescription drug coverage, the annual wellness exam, and free preventive care. In addition, continuing the sequester cuts for FY 2014 would mean a significant degradation of our military’s readiness, five million fewer meals to low-income seniors through Meals on Wheels, 57,000 fewer children in Head Start and Early Head Start, and a $1.5 billion reduction in life saving research at the National Institutes of Health. ###
09.20.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement today in recognition of Hispanic Heritage Month, which runs from September 15 to October 15: “Each year, Americans join together during National Hispanic Heritage Month in celebration of the countless positive contributions of the Latino community throughout the history of our great nation. “Whether it’s the veteran who has fought on our front lines, the construction worker who helped to build our home, the doctor who cares for the ill, or the small business owner who provides goods and services to the community, Latinos have helped build our nation from the ground up and continue to be an integral part of the fabric of this nation. “In the past year, our nation has taken a step forward in trying to repair our immigration system and lay the groundwork for a prosperous future. We cannot afford to lose the momentum we’ve gained, nor can working immigrant families, Latino or otherwise, afford to continue to live in uncertainty. Every day that our country doesn’t act on immigration reform hinders our efforts to pursue enhanced innovation, greater job creation, faster economic recovery, and more secure communities. “As we celebrate Hispanic Heritage Month, let us look back to honor the invaluable contributions of the Latino community as well as look forward to working to keep the American dream in reach for all those who seek it. Our nation was built upon the strong values and democratic principles of our ancestors from all walks of life. Our vibrant ethnic diversity is a large part of what makes the United States of America the greatest nation in the world.” ###
09.20.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop (GA-02) opposed increasing hunger in America by voting against H.R. 3102, the “Nutrition Reform and Work Opportunity Act,” which will cut basic food aid (Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program or SNAP) by nearly $40 billion over ten years, denying nutrition assistance for nearly 4 million Americans next year. The measure was passed by a vote of 217 to 210. “This legislation is wrong on many levels. It literally takes food out of the mouths of the hungry; ultimately harming children, seniors, veterans, Americans looking for work, and our nation’s most vulnerable,” said Congressman Bishop. “Plainly stated, this bill is all pain and no gain. Voting against these draconian cuts was the right thing to do.” It is estimated that the “Nutrition Reform and Work Opportunity Act” will cause between four and six million low-income individuals lose their SNAP benefits entirely. As many as 210,000 children could potentially lose their school meals and 850,000 households could see their benefits slashed by an average of $90 per month. In Georgia’s Second Congressional District, over 62,000 households (or 24.9%) received SNAP benefits in 2011. Many of them could be in jeopardy of reduced benefits or a loss of benefits altogether if these cuts are enacted. For the past 50 years, the Farm Bill has included agriculture subsidies and nutrition assistance. There is an economic reason for including nutritional assistance in the Farm Bill. For example, every time SNAP benefits are claimed, grocers, banks, and farmers benefit from the food eaten and commerce stimulated. Moody’s Analytics estimates that for every $1 spent on SNAP, $1.70 is generated in economic activity. Directly translated, $40 billion in cuts to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program would cut economic output by $68 billion. “Not only does this bill disadvantage those among us who need the assistance the most, it does it in a ‘penny wise but pound foolish’ fashion, benefitting no one at the end of the day,” concluded Congressman Bishop. ###
09.18.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies, stood in support of Georgia’s pecan industry in regards to unfair tariff discrepancies. In a letter to U.S. Trade Representative Michael Froman, Congressman Bishop called for fair pricing of pecan imports from the United States to India. “There is a disturbing discrepancy between import tariff rates which have been applied by India to various tree nuts. U.S. growers have visited India, met with potential buyers and participated in trade shows, yet they continue to find the current tariff rate a major barrier to U.S. pecans entering India,” wrote Congressman Bishop. “As part of the upcoming discussions with India’s Prime Minister, I would be grateful for your efforts to urge India to lower their import tariff rates on U.S. pecans. With lower rates, India could be as important of a market for U.S. pecans as China.” “The opportunity to export pecans to India with a reduced tariff could contribute millions of dollars to the rural economy of Georgia and the other 14 pecan producing states,” said Randy Hudson, President of the Georgia Pecan Growers Association. Commercially produced in 15 states, pecans are the only native tree nut grown in the United States. Approximately 80% of the world’s pecan production is located in the United States. U.S. growers produced 125,000 tons of pecans in 2011, with almost half the U.S. market exported to other countries. Congressman Bishop’s district, the Second Congressional District of Georgia, is the largest pecan producing Congressional District in the nation. To view the letter to U.S. Trade Representative Michael Froman, please click here. The full text of the letter is as follows: The Honorable Michael Froman United State Trade Representative 600 17th Street, NW Washington, D.C. 20508 Dear Ambassador Froman: As the Member of Congress representing the largest pecan-producing Congressional District in the United States, I would like to take this opportunity to bring to your attention a major problem facing American pecan growers with respect to trade with India. There is a disturbing discrepancy between import tariff rates which have been applied by India to various tree nuts. Other U.S. tree nuts, such as almonds and pistachios, enter India at a tariff rate of 10 percent or less, while U.S. pecans face a tariff rate of 36.26 percent. U.S. growers have visited India, met with potential buyers and participated in trade shows, yet they continue to find the current tariff rate a major barrier to U.S. pecans entering India. The industry believes that the potential for U.S. pecan exports to India compare to our current pecan exports to China which totaled over 22,000 tons in 2011. With an annual growth in GDP of 8.5 percent and a rising middle class, India represents to the pecan industry a very large potential market. As you may be aware, pecans are the only native tree nut grown in the United States and are produced commercially in 15 states. Approximately 80% of the world’s pecan production is located in the United States. U.S. growers produced 125,000 tons of pecans in 2011, with almost half the U.S. market exported to other countries. Our pecan growers have successfully used the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Market Access Program to expand exports, especially to China, which is currently the largest foreign market for U.S. pecans. As part of the upcoming discussions with India’s Prime Minister, I would be grateful for your efforts to urge India to lower their import tariff rates on U.S. pecans. With lower rates, India could be as important of a market for U.S. pecans as China. With warmest personal regards, I remain, Sincerely, Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. Member of Congress ###
09.18.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement regarding Monday’s tragic shooting at the Washington Navy Yard: “The horrific events that unfolded at the Washington Navy Yard yesterday mark a tragic time for our nation. I offer my condolences to the families of those men and women killed yesterday, and my thoughts remain with the injured and their loved ones. I thank all the brave law enforcement officials who worked diligently to secure the area and prevent any further instances of violence during yesterday’s prolonged periods of uncertainty following the shootings. As a Member of Congress, I will continue to stand with the members of our armed forces and all those affected by this tragedy during this difficult time and in the future.” ###
09.12.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop Jr. (GA-02) fought to ensure the availability of affordable health care by voting against H.R. 2775, the No Subsidies Without Verification Act. The legislation would have prohibited federal financial assistance from being provided to individuals to purchase health care in the new state exchanges beginning October 1, 2013 until a new income verification program is established. The vote today marks the 41st time the U.S. House of Representatives has voted to weaken the health care law. The measure was approved by a vote of 235 to 191, but is not expected to be passed by the Senate and would certainly be vetoed by the President. “Make no mistake. The real purpose of the No Subsidies Without Verification Act is to weaken the health care law and prevent thousands of Georgians from receiving the help they need to secure quality, affordable, health care coverage,” said Congressman Bishop. “There are already sufficient protections under the current law to prevent any potential fraud and recoup overpayments.” Under the health care law, millions of low- and middle-income Americans will be eligible to receive tax credits and cost-sharing reductions to purchase health care coverage. H.R. 2775 is unnecessary because the Secretary of Health and Human Services has already put in place an effective and efficient system for verification of eligibility for premium tax credits and cost sharing reductions. This legislation’s requirements would impede opening the state insurance exchanges on October 1, 2013, driving up out-of-pocket health care costs for millions of Americans and reducing timely access to much needed and long denied affordable coverage. ###
09.12.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement today to commemorate the 12th anniversary of 9/11: “The tragic and heartbreaking events of 9/11, which destroyed so many American lives and affected so many families, have irreversibly affected the United States of America. But instead of cowering in fear of the darkness that might engulf the heart of America, our nation stood strong and bound together, confident that we could overcome any challenge. From the heroism of our first responders to the bravery of our service members to the fortitude of the everyday American, our resilience shone a light through the dust of 9/11, through today and into the future. Our great nation continues to persevere in the face of global threats to Democracy and our American resolve. It remains as important as ever for the American people to stand together as a nation as well as for each individual to give thanks for the family, friends, and close ones we hold dear. Despite our differences, we must reflect on the experiences surrounding and following 9/11 and continue to work together to push our great nation forward. As a Member of Congress, I will continue to bear in mind the lessons learned from 9/11; work to ensure the protection and security of our citizenry; and stand with our police, firefighters, first responders, and armed forces, both now and in the future.” To view a picture of Congress’ 9/11 Remembrance Ceremony on the steps of the U.S. Capitol, please click here. ###
09.06.2013	ALBANY, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) welcomed the news that the United States Postal Service (USPS) recently signed a one-year lease through September 30, 2014 to keep the Albany Post Office on Broad Avenue open. The USPS has for some time been facing severe financial challenges resulting in proposals for post office closures around the nation, one of which was shutting down the Broad Avenue Post Office in Albany. However, many Albany leaders and residents protested, and argued closure of the Broad Avenue Post Office would have a detrimental impact on downtown Albany and the surrounding neighborhoods. "The re-signing of the lease is welcome news to the businesses and residents of Albany that rely on our downtown Post Office!" said Congressman Bishop. "Regarding the extension of the lease after 2014, I look forward to continuing work with Mayor Hubbard, Dougherty County Commission Chairman Sinyard, concerned citizens, and the USPS to ensure that people in the Albany area are provided the services they need from the United States Postal Service." In March, Congressman Bishop hosted a productive meeting in his Washington D.C. Congressional Office with community leaders from Albany and representatives from the United States Postal Service. To see pictures from this meeting, please click here. For more information regarding Congressman Bishop’s efforts to keep the Albany Post Office open, please click here and here. ###
09.05.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released a statement regarding the developing issue of using military force in Syria. “Without a doubt, the use of chemical weapons flies in the face of established international agreements and is an abomination of basic human rights. While I applaud the President’s efforts to reach out to Congress, any proposal to be voted upon should enumerate clear-cut objectives, should be thoroughly debated, and should keep in mind the full consequences of increased military action in the Middle East. I am currently waiting for Monday’s classified Congressional briefing and specific details regarding the language of the resolution that will be voted upon in the House before making a final decision.” ###
09.05.2013	COLUMBUS, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02); Dale Earnhardt, Jr., NASCAR driver of the No. 88 National Guard Chevrolet; and General Jim Butterworth, the Adjutant General of the Georgia National Guard visited and spoke with students, faculty, and staff of Shaw High School. Speaking at a student assembly, Congressman Bishop, Dale Earnhardt, Jr., and General Butterworth encouraged students to do well in school and graduate. “Graduation is very important and will affect the rest of your life,” said Dale Earnhardt, Jr. “Not graduating is a big handicap. It’s like taking power out of the race car. You can’t go to the race track with a car that doesn’t have as much power as everybody else and expect to compete, and if you don’t have that diploma, that’s what you’re doing when you step out into that workforce and the working world. You’re at a handicap.” After the assembly, Congressman Bishop and Dale Earnhardt, Jr. had the opportunity to speak with student press regarding the opportunity to visit Shaw High School. “Having Dale Earnhardt, Jr. here today at Shaw High School is an exceptional and a great opportunity,” said Congressman Bishop. “Today was an excellent chance for students to see someone from the real world, other than their teachers, they can relate to and hear from who can motivate and inspire them to be what they dream to be. It’s a chance for students to say, ‘If they can do it, I can do it.’” “Being here today gives us the opportunity to have an impact on kids,” said Dale Earnhardt, Jr. “It’s sort of like your Dad handing you the keys to the car when you’re young. It’s an opportunity to do something good, to make a difference in somebody’s life, and to share some inspiration for kids to challenge themselves for the future.” Congressman Bishop has been highly supportive of the relationship between the National Guard and NASCAR, and today’s opportunity has been made possible through the relationship between Congressman Bishop’s office, NASCAR, and the National Guard. “The truth is, Dale Earnhardt Jr. would not be here if it weren’t for Congressman Bishop and his pushing to have us all here at Shaw High School,” said General Jim Butterworth. Most recently, Congressman Bishop worked to defeat an amendment designed to prohibit the Army National Guard from investing resources in recruiting new soldiers through professional sports sponsorships. According to the National Guard, the amendment would have hindered military recruitment of qualified candidates, impaired access to employment resources for our nation's military families, and severely damaged a positive financial investment for our citizen-soldiers. For more information, please click here. For pictures from today’s event, please click here. ###
08.21.2013	Cairo, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) celebrated the official groundbreaking of the Tired Creek lake project in Grady County. Joined by the Grady County Commissioners, county officials, constituents, and fishing enthusiasts, Congressman Bishop marked the occasion as a great milestone, having personally been involved with the Tired Creek project for many years. Once completed, the 960-acre fishing lake will stimulate the regional economy and promote recreational tourism to Grady County. “Today’s success is due to persistence. There were times when it seemed that the process would stall or fail, but due to the hard work of many people, we are here to celebrate,” said Congressman Bishop. “When you teach your children to fish, remember today. Remember our persistence and our belief in the Tired Creek project. And teach your children that you can cast your nets where there are seemingly no fish, because if you’re persistent, you will reel in a catch.” Throughout his twenty-one years in Congress, Congressman Bishop has visited Tired Creek many times, including the point on the creek where the dam for the reservoir will be constructed. He and his staff have met with officials from Grady County, the Environmental Protection Agency, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Florida Fish and Wildlife, Georgia Environmental Protection Division, and others in support of the project. For a picture of the groundbreaking, please click here. ###
08.15.2013	ALBANY, GA — Yesterday, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop Jr. (GA-02) and 204 of his Democrat House colleagues called on the House Republican Leadership to refrain from pushing more Americans into hunger. In a letter to Speaker Boehner, they implored him to include funding for nutrition programs in any future Farm Bill that comes before the House of Representatives. All the Representatives and Delegates who wrote to the Speaker opposed the version of the Farm Bill that passed the House of Representatives last month and did not include nutrition programs, as the Farm Bill traditionally has in the past. “The Republican leadership recently forced through a Farm Bill reauthorization, H.R. 2642, which did not include the nutrition title, a major part of the Farm Bill that would reauthorize SNAP,” the representatives wrote. “We voted against this bill in large part because of this intentional omission. We strongly believe in the critical importance of SNAP. Given the essential nature of this program to millions of American families, the final language of the Farm Bill or any other legislation related to SNAP must be crafted to ensure that we do not increase hunger in America.” The full text of the letter is as follows: August 13, 2013 The Honorable John Boehner The Speaker H-232, The Capitol Washington, DC 20515 Dear Speaker Boehner, The Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) is our country’s most critical anti-hunger program, helping more than 47 million Americans meet their basic food needs at a time when more than 50 million Americans face the threat of food insecurity. Nearly half of SNAP enrollees are children, and the program helps feed roughly one in three children in America. Additionally, almost 75 percent of SNAP participants are in households with children, seniors, or a disabled individual. More than half of the average household’s SNAP allocation is used within 7 days, and by the third week of the month 90 percent of SNAP benefits have been redeemed, leaving many families without the resources they need to buy food. This inadequacy causes an added burden on food banks, as nearly 60 percent of the households receiving SNAP and using food banks have to rely on food banks at least 6 months a year. In addition, under current law each household participating in SNAP will see a benefit reduction when the temporary increase from the Recovery Act expires. This means that, beginning November 1st, each SNAP enrollee will see a cut to their benefit that is, on average, less than $1.50 per meal. Unfortunately, the Republican leadership recently forced through a Farm Bill reauthorization, H.R. 2642, which did not include the nutrition title, a major part of the Farm Bill that would reauthorize SNAP. We voted against this bill in large part because of this intentional omission. We strongly believe in the critical importance of SNAP. Given the essential nature of this program to millions of American families, the final language of the Farm Bill or any other legislation related to SNAP must be crafted to ensure that we do not increase hunger in America. ###
08.14.2013	Columbus, GA – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement today announcing the award of a continuing grant from the United States Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to assist Enrichment Services Program, Inc. (ESP) programs in Georgia. Head Start grants are used to promote quality school readiness for children from birth to five years old who come from low income families. “I am very grateful for these Head Start grants and the positive impact they will have on our children and families in the lower Chattahoochee Valley,” said Congressman Bishop. “I commend HHS and Head Start for their continued commitment to helping socially disadvantaged children prepare for success when they enter school.” “The Board and Staff of Enrichment Services Program, Inc. are looking forward to serving 887 Early Head Start and Head Start children during the 2013-2014 school year,” said Belva Dorsey, CEO at ESP. “We are disappointed that we had to cut 118 Head Start enrollment slots this school year because of Sequestration. This means that 118 fewer vulnerable children may enter school without the skills necessary to be successful.” “Unfortunately, sequestration’s ripple effect throughout our communities negatively impacts education, job training, and many other services Georgians rely on every day beyond what any grant may support,” concluded Congressman Bishop. “As a strong and sustainable educational foundation is vital in strengthening our nation’s economy, I will continue to urge Congress to adopt a balanced solution to end this unwise and destructive policy.” HHS granted $6,350,032 to Enrichment Services Program, Inc. to support services that promote healthy prenatal outcomes, enhance the development of infants, toddlers, and preschoolers, and promotes healthy family functioning. ESP services are available to residents within an eight county area of the lower Chattahoochee Valley including Chattahoochee, Clay, Harris, Muscogee, Quitman, Randolph, Stewart, and Talbot counties. In total, HHS awarded $6.461 billion in Head Start Grants to agencies across the United States through its Office of the Administration for Children and Families. ###
08.08.2013	PERRY, GA – Yesterday, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) joined Tom McCall, Georgia House Agriculture Committee Chairman; John Wilkinson, Georgia Senate Agriculture Committee Chairman; Gary Black, Georgia Commissioner of Agriculture; Bo Warren, Director at the Georgia Department of Agriculture; Amy Oneacre, Policy Manager with the Georgia Department of Revenue; Jud Turner, Director at the Georgia Environmental Protection Division; Lt. James Steen, Georgia State Patrol; and local farmers and agriculture industry representatives at an Agriculture Issues Summit at the Georgia National Fairgrounds in Perry, GA to discuss legislative issues important to Rural America. Congressman Bishop discussed the Farm Bill. “A strong Farm Bill provides certainty for America’s farmers, ranchers, and consumers with the safest, most abundant and most affordable food and fiber supply in the world, while addressing hunger across the nation,” said Congressman Bishop. “This is the Farm Bill I work and pray for – and I would appreciate your prayers for all those in Congress to make fair, reasonable, and balanced decisions for the American people as we move forward on a nutrition bill and a Farm Bill conference with the Senate.” Georgia Rep. Tom McCall and Senator John Wilkinson, who chair their respective Agriculture Committees in the Georgia General Assembly, hosted the annual Agriculture Issues Summit. Speakers provided updates and information on issues important to agriculture, including updates to the Georgia Ag Tax Exemption program, federal immigration reform, Georgia regional and state water planning, the MAP-21 transportation regulations, and an update on the Farm Bill. For a picture of Congressman Bishop at the summit, please click here. For more background on the Farm Bill, please click here. ###
08.01.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement today after the House, in a 392 to 31 bipartisan vote, passed the bipartisan Senate-passed legislation addressing student loan rates, which doubled on July 1st, sending the bill to the President’s desk for his signature. “This compromise not only brings relief to America’s college students but also shows our nation that Congress can still work in a bipartisan fashion to address important issues. Millions of undergraduates struggling with the rising expense of college education will save $25 billion in loan interest costs, saving each student an average of $1,500 over the life of their loans. Approval of this bill was a positive step forward for all of America, and I look forward to working with my colleagues to tackle the long-term issue of comprehensive college affordability in the future.” ###
07.29.2013	Washington, D.C. – On Friday, July 26, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, JR (GA-02) and more than 153 members of the House Democratic Caucus sent the following letter to President Barack Obama, calling on the President to work with Congress to examine the operations of the National Security Agency (NSA) and consider amendments to existing law that strengthen the balance between our national security and Americans’ civil liberties. As the Members write in the letter, "It is clear that concerns remain about the continued implementation of [NSA's ability to collect bulk telecommunications records pursuant to Section 215 of the Patriot Act as codified in Section 501 of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA)] in its current form." The Members state further that, "Congress must examine the various national security collection programs and consider amendments to the law. We have been assured that the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board has embarked on a review of the collection programs done pursuant to FISA and the Patriot Act, and has agreed to review various legislative proposals." Below is the full text of the sent letter: July 26, 2013 The Honorable Barack Obama President of the United States The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, Northwest Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President: Thank you for your leadership in honoring our responsibility to protect and defend the American people. As you know, our challenge as elected officials is to preserve Americans’ liberties while protecting our national security. This week, the House of Representatives considered an amendment offered by Representatives Amash and Conyers to H.R. 2397, the Fiscal Year 2014 Defense Appropriations bill. The Amash-Conyers amendment would have limited NSA's ability to collect bulk telecommunications records pursuant to Section 215 of the Patriot Act as codified in Section 501 of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA). Although the amendment was defeated 205-217, it is clear that concerns remain about the continued implementation of the program in its current form. Although some of us voted for and others against the amendment, we all agree that there are lingering questions and concerns about the current 215 collection program. These include: Whether the bulk metadata telecommunications collection program sufficiently protects the privacy and civil liberties of Americans. Whether the program could be tailored more narrowly to better ensure the protection of privacy and civil liberties. Whether the law is being implemented in a manner consistent with Congressional intent. How we can ensure greater transparency regarding FISA court operations, decision making, and issuance of orders. Whether changes to the current FISA Court structure are needed. Congress must examine the various national security collection programs and consider amendments to the law. We have been assured that the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board has embarked on a review of the collection programs done pursuant to FISA and the Patriot Act, and has agreed to review various legislative proposals. We look forward to working with you and Administration officials to address the concerns outlined above and to explore options which will preserve Americans' privacy and civil liberties while protecting our national security. Thank you for your leadership and your attention to these concerns. Sincerely, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-2) Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi Democratic Whip Steny H. Hoyer Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn House Democratic Caucus Chairman Xavier Becerra Democratic Caucus Vice Chairman Joseph Crowley C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, Ranking Member, Select Committee on Intelligence (MD-2) John Conyers, Jr., Ranking Member, House Committee on Judiciary (MI-13) Robert E. Andrews (NJ-1) Joyce Beatty (OH-3) Ami Bera (CA-7) Timothy H. Bishop (NY-1) Earl Blumenauer (OR-3) Suzanne Bonamici (OR-2) Madeleine Z. Bordallo (GU-DL) Robert A. Brady (PA-1) Corrine Brown (FL-5) Julia Brownley (CA-26) Cheri Bustos (IL-17) Lois Capps (CA-24) Tony Cardenas (CA-29) John C. Carney, Jr. (DE-AL) Matthew A. Cartwright (PA-17) Kathy Castor (FL-14) Joaquin Castro (TX-20) Judy Chu (CA-27) David N. Cicilline (RI-1) Yvette D. Clarke (NY-9) Steve Cohen (TN-9) Gerald E. Connolly (VA-11) Jim Cooper (TN-5) Joe Courtney (CT-2) Elijah E. Cummings (MD-7) Susan A. Davis (CA-53) Diana DeGette (CO-1) John K. Delaney (MD-6) Rosa L. DeLauro (CT-3) Suzan K. DelBene (CO-1) Tammy Duckworth (IL-8) Donna F. Edwards (MD-4) Keith Ellison (MN-5) Eliot L. Engel (NY-16) William L. Enyart (IL-12) Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) Elizabeth H. Esty (CT-5) Eni F.H. Faleomavaega (AS-DL) Chaka Fattah (PA-2) Sam Farr (CA-20) Bill Foster (IL-11) Lois Frankel (FL-22) Marcia L. Fudge (OH-11) Tulsi Gabbard (HI-2) Pete P. Gallego (TX-23) John Garamendi (CA-3) Joe Garcia (FL-26) Alan Grayson (FL-9) Gene Green (TX-29) Raúl M. Grijalva (AZ-3) Luis V. Gutierrez (IL-4) Janice Hahn (CA-44) Colleen W. Hanabusa (HI-1) Denny Heck (WA-10) Brian Higgins (NY-26) James A. Himes (CT-4) Michael M. Honda (CA-17) Steven A. Horsford (NV-4) Jared Huffman (CA-2) Steve Israel (NY-3) Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18) Hakeem S. Jeffries (NY-8) Eddie Bernice Johnson (TX-30) Henry C. “Hank” Johnson, Jr. (GA-4) Joseph P. Kennedy, Jr. (MA-4) Daniel T. Kildee (MI-5) Derek Kilmer (WA-6) Ron Kind (WI-3) Ann Kirkpatrick (AZ-1) Ann M. Kuster (NH-2) James R. Langevin (RI-2) Rick Larsen (WA-2) John B. Larson (CT-1) Barbara Lee (CA-13) Sander M. Levin (MI-9) John Lewis (GA-5) Alan S. Lowenthal (CA-47) Nita M. Lowey (NY-17) Michelle Lujan Grisham (NM-1) Ben Ray Luján (NM-3) Stephen F. Lynch (MA-8) Daniel B. Maffei (NY-24) Carolyn B. Maloney (NY-12) Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) Jim Matheson (UT-4) Doris O. Matsui (CA-6) Betty McCollum (MN-4) Jim McDermott (WA-7) James P. McGovern (MA-2) Jerry McNerney (CA-9) Grace Meng (NY-6) Michael H. Michaud (ME-2) George Miller (CA-11) Gwen Moore (WI-4) James P. Moran (VA-8) Patrick Murphy (FL-18) Jerrold Nadler (NY-10) Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) Gloria Negrete McLeod (CA-35) Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC-DL) Beto O’Rourke (TX-16) William L. Owens (NY-21) Frank Pallone, Jr. (NJ-6) Bill Pascrell, Jr. (NJ-9) Donald J. Payne, Jr. (NJ-10) Ed Perlmutter (CO-7) Gary C. Peters (MI-14) Scott H. Peters (CA-52) Collin C. Peterson (MN-7) Pedro R. Piersluisi (PR-DL) Mark Pocan (WI-2) Jared Polis (CO-2) David E. Price (NC-4) Cedric L. Richmond (LA-2) Raul Ruiz (CA-36) Tim Ryan (OH-13) Loretta Sanchez (CA-46) John P. Sarbanes (MD-3) Janice D. Schakowsky (IL-9) Adam B. Schiff (CA-28) Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-3) José E. Serrano (NY-15) Terri A. Sewell (AL-7) Carol Shea-Porter (NH-1) Brad Sherman (CA-30) Kyrsten Sinema (AZ-9) Louise McIntosh Slaughter (NY-25) Adam Smith (WA-9) Jackie Speier (CA-14) Eric Swalwell (CA-15) Mark Takano (CA-41) Bennie G. Thompson (MS-2) Mike Thompson (CA-5) John F. Tierney (MA-6) Dina Titus (NV-1) Niki Tsongas (MA-3) Chris Van Hollen (MD-8) Juan Vargas (CA-51) Marc A. Veasey (TX-33) Peter J. Visclosky (IN-1) Debbie Wasserman-Schultz (FL-23) Henry A. Waxman (CA-33) Timothy J. Walz (MN-1) Peter Welch (VT-AL) Frederica S. Wilson (FL-24) John A. Yarmuth (KY-3) ###
07.24.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) was honored by the United States Marine Corps at an evening Sunset Parade at the Iwo Jima Memorial and preceding ceremony at Arlington Cemetery in Arlington, VA. Congressman Bishop was chosen to be honored for his steadfast dedication to the Marine Corps; his unwavering support of the Marine Corps Logistics Base Albany; his work as Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee for Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies; his advocacy for military families through his co-chairing and co-founding the Congressional Military Family Caucus; and his work through a number of related Congressional caucuses like the House Army Caucus and the Congressional USO Caucus. In his remarks to the attendees at the ceremony, Congressman Bishop observed; “You know, just two weeks ago I had the privilege of attending the retirement ceremony of my good friend Lieutenant General Willie Williams…Really, there are many things that I can say about General Williams, but there is one larger fact that rings true for him and every Marine. When you get to know him, you also get to know the Marines Corps.” Continued Bishop, “Every Marine carries with him the rich history of 237 years of honor through sacrifice for the defense of our great nation. From the shores of Tripoli, to the jungles of Okinawa, to the street of Fallujah, and the deserts of Helmand Province, the Marine’s commitment to that tradition of proud service is known far and wide as an example to be emulated—and as a strength to be reckoned with. The dignity and respect each Marine carries for his unit, his core values, and his nation are always unwavering, truly representative of the Corps’ motto, ‘Semper Fidelis’ [Always Faithful].” In introduction of Congressman Bishop, Deputy Commandant of Marine Installations and Logistics Lieutenant General William Faulkner remarked, “Tonight it is his staunch support of Marines, Marine veterans, and their families that I wish to particularly comment on before I turn it over to the Congressman…Tonight’s guest of honor is an individual who values the role of the American military, of national security, and just how important it is to the way of life that we Americans enjoy.” Concluded Bishop, “Today, under the shadow of the Iwo Jima Memorial, we will witness a fitting tribute to those who’s ‘uncommon valor was a common virtue.’ It’s days like today that I, as an American, couldn’t be more proud to serve the Marines of the Logistics Base Albany, and the Marines stationed around the world – as your Congressman from Southwest Georgia.” Since September 1956, marching and musical units from Marine Barracks, Washington, D.C., have been paying tribute to brave service members from past U.S. conflicts by presenting Sunset Parades in the shadow of the 32-foot high figures of the United States Marine Corps War Memorial. Please click here to view downloadable pictures of Congressman Bishop and the Sunset Parade Ceremony. ###
07.23.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on the on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies, offered a testimony in favor of the nomination of USDA Deputy Secretary Nominee Krysta Harden at the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry. A picture of the Senate hearing and the text of Congressman Bishop’s testimony are below: “Good morning Madame Chairwoman Stabenow, Senator Cochran, and members of the Committee. “It is my distinct honor and privilege to come before you today, joined by the distinguished senior Senator from Georgia, and my good friend, Saxby Chambliss, to support the nomination of Krysta Harden, as the next Deputy Secretary of the United States Department of Agriculture. “I have known Krysta, and her husband Charles, for decades and consider them dear friends. She is also happens to be my constituent, hailing from the largely rural Second Congressional District of Georgia, having been born and raised one of the many peanut farms in Mitchell County. “Though she has served many years in Washington D.C., Krysta still refers to herself as a “Georgia farm girl!” I am proud to say she has never forgotten her roots and will bring a wealth of knowledge grown from her rustic upbringing as well as her many years of federal experience to her new position with USDA: “I already mentioned that Krysta grew up and worked the land on a peanut farm. “She has spent 16 years on Capitol Hill, including a stint as Staff Director for the House Agriculture Peanut and Tobacco Subcommittee. “She also served for 6 years as CEO with the National Association of Conservation Districts, which represents the 3,000 districts tasked with carrying out natural resource management programs and— “Most recently, she joined Secretary Tom Vilsack at USDA as the Assistant Secretary for Congressional Relations, ultimately being promoted in 2011 by the Secretary to the Department’s Chief of Staff. “As a Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, I have had the privilege of personally working with her on a range of challenging and sensitive issues during her tenure in this Administration. “I can say that I have found her bi-partisan and no-nonsense approach to problem-solving, her ability to listen, and her persistence and follow-through to be altogether refreshing and valuable. “Whether working on national issues such as the reauthorization of the Farm Bill; or the Administration’s proposed reforms for the crop insurance and direct payments programs; or working with the Congressional Black Caucus on developing the legislative framework for farmer settlements; or assisting our office in helping a local farmer overcome a few challenges with his County FSA office, I have always found her to be honest, forthright, and fair. “Finally, she has shown herself to represent the highest standards of public service. “I have every confidence that she will perform admirably as the Deputy Secretary of USDA, and I wholeheartedly support her nomination for this important position. “Thank you Madame Chairwoman and members of the Committee.” Please click here to view a downloadable picture of Congressman Bishop at the Senate Committee Hearing. ###
07.19.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on the Legislative Branch, offered an amendment during the House Appropriations Committee’s markup of its Fiscal Year (FY) 2014 spending bill for the Legislative Branch to reverse the across-the-board budget cuts due to sequestration for FY 2013 and FY 2014. The amendment would prevent sequestration throughout the federal government. “Sequestration’s spending reductions have a ripple effect all across the government and negatively impact investments in education, job training, health care, national security, and many other services Americans need,” said Congressman Bishop. “The Legislative Branch and the entire federal government may be functioning today, but it is doing so on an empty stomach. We must end sequestration’s penny-wise but pound-foolish approach, as I do not believe that any of us want to see it become a skeleton.” Congressman Bishop’s amendment would have prevented the furloughs which began last week in non-essential civilian employees at the Department of Defense. In Georgia’s Second Congressional District, over 3,000 employees were subjected to furloughs at Fort Benning, 2,900 at the Marine Corps Logistics Base in Albany, and over 15,200 at nearby Robins Air Force Base in Warner Robins. Congressman Bishop’s amendment would cancel the need for furloughs as well as protect veteran programs from future sequester. Congressman Bishop’s amendment was defeated on a party line vote of 26 to 21. Congressman Bishop has been a member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on the Legislative Branch since 2011, which has jurisdiction over the budgets of the United States Congress, Library of Congress, Government Accountability Office (GAO), Congressional Budget Office (CBO), and the Government Printing Office. Congressman Bishop is also the Ranking Member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies as well as a member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies. ###
07.18.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) joined over 70 Democratic and Republican members of Congress from both chambers at a rally to announce the Make Government Work! legislative reform package of nine bills drafted to make government more efficient and effective. Today’s rally demonstrates the trust-building priorities of the new group, and willingness to work across the aisle on common sense legislation for the good of our nation. “The solutions to the problems our country faces are neither Democrat not Republican—they will have to be American solutions, which require bipartisan cooperation and compromise,” said Congressman Bishop. “I believe this group of Problem Solvers with no ideological labels will help make that happen.” Please click here to view a picture of Congressman Bishop speaking at today’s rally. The Make Government Work! legislative package features nine common sense bills designed to make government more efficient, effective and less wasteful. It is a first step towards restoring trust between lawmakers and eventually strengthening the American people’s trust in our nation’s leaders. Below are details of the Make Government Work! legislative package. Congressman Bishop is a co-sponsor on all bills in the House of Representatives. 1. NO BUDGET, NO PAY; S.124, H.R. 310 If Congress cannot pass a budget and all annual spending bills on time, members should not get paid. 2. TAKE THE TIME, SAVE THE DIME; S. 554, H.R. 1869 Move to a two-year budgeting process. (H.R. 1869) 3. DON’T DUPLICATE, CONSOLIDATE; S. 1231, H.R. 2506 Get rid of duplicate agencies and programs identified in 2013 by the Government Accountability Office. 4. BUY SMARTER AND SAVE; S. 1304, H.R. 2694 Enforce strategic sourcing so that separate divisions within a single federal agency do not make independent contracts for common items. 5. NO ADDING, NO PADDING; H.R. 2686 Stop assuming automatic year-to-year spending increases in agency budgets. 6. 21ST CENTURY HEALTHCARE FOR HEROES; S. 1296, H.R. 2590 Merge the electronic health records of the Department of Defense with the Department of Veterans Affairs. 7. STAY IN PLACE, CUT THE WASTE; H.R. 2643 Cut 50% of agency travel and replace it with video conferencing. 8. WASTED ENERGY, WASTED DOLLARS; S. 1308, H.R. 2689 Reduce energy waste in federal buildings by incentivizing private companies to identify energy savings. The contractors would be paid with the dollars saved instead of with taxpayer dollars. 9. PLAN FOR EFFICIENT AND EFFECTIVE GOVERNMENT; S. 1297, H.R. 2675 Create a new Commission for Government Transformation to oversee the transformation of various federal government programs so they will be more economical, efficient, and effective. BACKGROUND: In January, No Labels introduced the inaugural group of 24 Congressional Problem Solvers. Since then, the coalition has more than tripled in size to 80 members. Full List of Problem Solvers 36 Republicans, 1 Independent, 43 Democrats Senate Sen. Mark Begich (D-AK), Sen. Bill Nelson (D-FL), Sen. Mark Kirk (R-IL), Sen. Angus King (I-ME), Sen. Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Sen. Dean Heller (R-NV), Sen. Joe Manchin (D-WV), Sen. Mark Pryor (D-AR) House of Representatives Rep. Sanford Bishop (D-GA), Rep. Tim Griffin (R-AR), Rep. Ann Kirkpatrick (D-AZ), Rep. Kyrsten Sinema (D-AZ), Rep. Ami Bera (D-CA), Rep. Julia Brownley (D-CA), Rep. Tony Cárdenas (D-CA), Rep. Paul Cook (R-CA), Rep. Jim Costa (D-CA), Rep. Janice Hahn (D-CA), Rep. Jared Huffman (D-CA), Rep. Alan Lowenthal (D-CA), Rep. Scott Peters (D-CA), Rep. Raúl Ruiz (D-CA), Rep. David Valadao (R-CA), Rep. Mike Coffman (R-CO), Rep. Jared Polis (D-CO), Rep. Jim Himes (D-CT), Rep. Joe Garcia (D-FL), Rep. Patrick Murphy (D-FL), Rep. Tom Rooney (R-FL), Rep. John Barrow (D-GA), Rep. Jack Kingston (R-GA), Rep. Tulsi Gabbard (D-HI), Rep. Rep. Cheri Bustos (D-IL), Rep. Rodney Davis (R-IL), Rep. Adam Kinzinger (R-IL), Rep. Dan Lipinski (D-IL), Rep. Brad Schneider (D-IL), Rep. Todd Young (R-IN), Rep. Dave Loebsack (D-IA), Rep. Lynn Jenkins (R-KS), Rep. Rodney Alexander (R-LA), Rep. Mike Michaud (D-ME), Rep. John Delaney (D-MD), Rep. Kerry Bentivolio (R-MI), Rep. Rick Nolan (D-MN), Rep. Chris Gibson (R-NY), Rep. Michael Grimm (R-NY), Rep. Richard Hanna (R-NY), Rep. Dan Maffei (D-NY), Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney (D-NY), Rep. Bill Owens (D-NY), Rep. Tom Reed (R-NY), Rep. Ann McLane Kuster (D-NH), Rep. Renee Ellmers (R-NC), Rep. Mark Meadows (R-NC), Rep. Dave Joyce (R-OH), Rep. Kurt Schrader (D-OR), Rep. Charlie Dent (R-PA), Rep. Chaka Fattah (D-PA), Rep. Mike Fitzpatrick (R-PA), Rep. Pat Meehan (R-PA), Rep. Scott Perry (R-PA), Rep. GT Thompson (R-PA), Rep. David Cicilline (D-RI), Rep. Mick Mulvaney (R-SC), Rep. Tom Rice (R-SC), Rep. Jim Cooper (D-TN), Rep. Scott DesJarlais (R-TN), Rep. Joaquin Castro (D-TX), Rep. Jim Matheson (D-UT), Rep. Peter Welch (D-VT), Rep. Jim Moran (D-VA), Rep. Scott Rigell (R-VA), Rep. Frank Wolf (R-VA), Rep. David McKinley (R-WV), Rep. Sean Duffy (R-WI), Rep. Tom Petri (R-WI), Rep. Mark Pocan (D-WI), Rep. Reid Ribble (R-WI) ###
07.11.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Last month, the Farm Bill was defeated on the floor of the House of Representatives by a series of ‘poison pill’ amendments that would weaken nutrition assistance for our nation’s poor. Today, a new and controversial version of the Farm Bill, H.R. 2642, Federal Agriculture Reform and Risk Management Act, was reintroduced for a vote, completely dropping the historically included nutrition benefits. In protest, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) and his colleagues in the Democratic Caucus, Congressional Black Caucus, and Congressional Hispanic Caucus rose in opposition to the legislation that would damage nutrition assistance to our nation’s poorest children and endanger support for our nation’s agriculture industry. “Splitting the Farm Bill is a disastrous mistake, and I will not abide by it. Plainly stated, rejecting the historic marriage of Farm and nutrition programs could prove devastating for both down the road. More important, by politically isolating our vital nutrition programs, the House leadership is literally taking food out of the mouths of hungry families and upsetting the precious balance of priorities for farmers and ranchers in my District and across the whole United States,” said Congressman Bishop. “Congress has an obligation to support and protect Americans of all walks of life, and so I cannot, and will not, vote for a bill that would turn its back on our nation’s hungry, destitute, and malnourished.” For more than forty years, a comprehensive and bipartisan approach on the Farm Bill has brought members from all across America, both urban and rural areas, together on American food policy. A strong Farm Bill provides certainty for America’s farmers, ranchers, and consumers with the safest, most abundant and most affordable food and fiber supply in the world, while addressing hunger across the nation. Splitting the Farm Bill is opposed by hundreds of farm groups, including the American Farm Bureau, Georgia Farm Bureau, National Farmers Union, Dairy Farmers of America, National Association of Wheat Growers, National Farmers Union, as well as the Southwest Georgia Farm Credit, Georgia Agribusiness Council, Georgia Forestry Association, Georgia Pork Producers Association, and AgGeorgia. The new bill is also opposed by AARP, the U.S. Conference of Catholics Bishops, Club for Growth, Freedomworks, Heritage Action, and has been threatened to be vetoed by the White House. When brought to a vote, H.R. 2642 passed in a partisan vote of 216 to 208. Congressman Bishop opposed the bill. For additional background regarding Congressman Bishop’s previous vote on H.R. 1947, the Federal Agriculture Reform and Risk Management Act (FARRM Act), please click here. ###
07.09.2013	ALBANY, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released a statement regarding Independence Day. “The Fourth of July has always been a time for communities to reflect on the journey of this great nation. As we celebrate our nation’s birth, we must never forget the provisions of justice, freedom, and equality set forth in the dreams of our forefathers as established in the Declaration of Independence and our Constitution. We must also never forget the many service members who have dedicated their lives to protect this land. I would like to send a warm greeting to these brave members and their families at home or overseas this 4th of July. Moreover, I hope all Americans have a fulfilling and memorable Independence Day!” ###
07.03.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released a statement regarding the passing of former House Majority Whip William H. Gray III, long-time member of the U.S. House of Representatives and Pastor of Bright Hope Baptist Church in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. “Congressman Bill Gray was a source of personal inspiration to me and I am deeply saddened to have lost a dear friend and confidant. Our nation has lost a strong community leader and devoted public servant. Through his unwavering faith, strong values, and an avid social conscience, Congressman Gray made a tremendous impact on his community in north Philadelphia, in corporate America, in higher education, and on people throughout the world,” said Congressman Bishop. “My heartfelt thoughts and prayers go out for Congressman Gray’s mother, wife, his three sons, and the Bright Hope Baptist Church family.” Born in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, Congressman William Gray graduated from Franklin & Marshall College, Drew Theological Seminary, and Princeton Theological Seminary before becoming pastor of Union Baptist Church in Montclair, New Jersey. He succeeded his father as the pastor of Bright Hope Baptist Church in Philadelphia in 1972 and was elected to Congress in 1978, representing much of the Philadelphia area until 1991. Congressman Gray was first African American to become the Majority Whip of the U.S. House of Representatives and Chairman of the House Budget Committee. As Chairman of the Budget Committee, Congressman Gray was influential in the fight against apartheid in South Africa. After his time in Congress, William Gray served as the President and CEO of the United Negro College Fund for 13 years; served on the board of directors of several major corporations including Dell, J.P. Morgan Chase & Co., and Pfizer; and continued as a pastor of the Bright Hope Baptist Church until 2007 at which time he became Pastor Emeritus until his death. ###
06.25.2013	COLUMBUS, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop Jr. (GA-02), Ranking Member of the U.S. House of Representatives’ Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies, praised the United States Army’s decision to keep Fort Benning untouched from the Army’s overall brigade reduction plan. “The ties between Columbus and Fort Benning are as strong as ever, and today’s exciting announcement highlights the positive and mutually beneficial co-existence the two communities share. I am personally proud of Columbus’ lineage of services, support, and opportunity for Fort Benning, assets which shone brightly throughout the Army’s decision making process.” “The possibility of losing a brigade from Fort Benning was real, and I thank the Columbus community, including the Chamber, on all its efforts in averting an adverse conclusion. I stood with the city in our advocacy for Columbus and now stand with the city in thanking Army Leadership for the particularly positive outcome of their decision. Today is a good day for Columbus and for Fort Benning, and I look forward to many more years of united service to the nation.” Background: The Army is continuing a process to reduce their total active end-strength from 562,000 to 490,000 by 2020 as part of the military’s overall budget reduction. As part of the drawdown to 490,000, the Army is reducing its active component Brigade Combat Teams (BCTs) from 45 to 33 BCTs by Fiscal Year 2017. In addition to BCT reduction, the Army will reorganize Infantry and Armor BCTs by adding a third maneuver battalion and increasing engineer and fires capability. The Army will reduce or reorganize numerous non-BCT units as part of the drawdown. In January 2013, the United States Army released a final Programmatic Environmental Assessment (PEA) Army 2020 Force Structure Realignment, which reviews and analyzes the impact of an anticipated force-wide restructuring plan. The Army has completed this analysis in an effort to ensure that vital national defense capabilities are maintained in a climate of budgetary constraints as U.S. missions in Iraq and Afghanistan are coming to an end. As part of this drawdown, the Army is inactivating brigade combat teams at each of the following installations by Fiscal Year 2017: Fort Bliss, TX; Fort Bragg, NC; Fort Campbell, KY; Fort Carson, CO; Fort Drum, NY; Fort Hood, TX; Fort Knox, KY; Fort Riley, KS; Fort Stewart, GA; and Joint Base Lewis-McChord, WA. Two BCTs stationed at Baumholder and Grafenwoehr, Germany will complete their inactivation in Fiscal Year 2013, leaving two BCTs in Europe to fulfill strategic commitments. Additional domestic sites considered for force reduction included: Fort Benning, GA; Fort Gordon, GA; Fort Irwin, CA; Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson, AK; Joint Base Langley-Eustis, VA; Fort Lee, VA; Fort Leonard Wood, MO; Fort Polk, LA; Fort Sill, OK; U.S. Army Garrison Hawaii; and U.S. Army Garrison Fort Wainwright, AK. In order to view the entire Environmental Impact Statement, please click here. In order to view the Environmental Impact Statement sections that reference Fort Benning, please click here. To view Congressman Bishop’s actions regarding the extension of the PEA and urging the public to comment, please click here. Prior to the close of the PEA’s public comment period, Congressman Bishop submitted his own comments in a letter to Assistant Secretary of the Army Katherine Hammack echoing many of the concerns that have been raised and urging the Army to continue to support a strong Fort Benning. To view the letter sent to the Army, please click here. Additionally, Congressman Bishop submitted comments to the United States Army’s listening session at Fort Benning regarding the Army's 2020 Force Structure Realignment. To view Congressman Bishop’s letter to Army Leadership, please click here. ###
06.24.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies as well as co-Chair of the Congressional Military Families Caucus, rallied for the National Guard by voting against the McCollum Amendment to the Fiscal Year 2014 National Defense Authorization Act. If passed, the amendment would have prohibited the Army National Guard from investing resources in recruiting new soldiers through professional sports sponsorships, specifically professional wrestling, NASCAR, Indy Racing, and American Motorcycle Association. This is the third year in a row that Congressman Bishop has opposed this amendment aimed at weakening the Army National Guard’s ability to recruit the strongest candidates possible. "It is important that our military maintain access to the most qualified potential recruits available,” said Congressman Bishop. “This amendment does not save any money, it does not address any government excess or impropriety, it unnecessarily attacks our National Guard, and shackles their best opportunity to recruit and retain the very best for our nation. Once again, a vote for this amendment is a vote against the effectiveness of our military." Much as why NASCAR and other professional sports are understood to be a preferred venue for corporate advertising, our nation’s military realizes the importance and cost-effectiveness of marketing to this large and specific audience. A recent study has found that 90% of Army National Guard soldiers who enlisted or re-enlisted since 2007 were exposed to the Guard through recruiting or retention materials featuring NASCAR cars or drivers. Of those who enlisted or re-enlisted during that time period, 85% agree that professional sports are beneficial to attracting and retaining good soldiers. The survey also found that racing fans are an especially receptive group for National Guard recruiting. NASCAR enthusiasts aged 18-34, the National Guard’s target age demographic, are twice as likely to consider a military career than non-fans. In addition to marketing, DOD professional sports partnerships have resulted in key transfers of technology. For example, NASCAR has worked with the Marines to improve Humvee suspension systems and develop mine detonating rollers. Both advances have saved Marines’ lives. According to the National Guard, the amendment would hinder military recruitment of qualified candidates, impair access to employment resources for our nation's military families, and severely damage a positive financial investment for our citizen-soldiers. The McCollum amendment was defeated in a bi-partisan vote of 134 to 289. To watch Congressman Bishop’s remarks on the floor opposing the same amendment last year, please click here. ###
06.21.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – H.R. 1947, the Federal Agriculture Reform and Risk Management Act (FARRM Act) was killed on the floor of the House of Representatives by a series of ‘poison pill’ amendments. Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (D-GA) released a statement regarding the missed opportunity to provide our nation’s farmers and ranchers a farm bill with the necessary tools and stability to continue producing the safest, most abundant, and most affordable food and fiber in the world. “The Farm Bill is not just for farmers. It is for every American. The Farm Bill provides nutrition programs which give healthy school lunches for school children, expectant mothers, and seniors; it provides broadband infrastructure which assists rural entrepreneurs in marketing their products; and it provides for dairy and food programs which affect the price of milk and food and other agricultural products for everyone. “It goes without saying that those in Rural America deserve the resources to build a solid foundation upon which to develop and enhance the quality of their lives. It was my opinion that the FARRM Act, as it was originally crafted, represented that basic notion. In fact, as of two days ago, I was ready to support this bill on final passage in order to move the process forward to bring the bill to conference with the Senate and produce a better bill. “Among a number of measures, I was especially pleased that the bill included rural development and agriculture trade programs, the streamlining of environmental regulations, and the expansion of fresh fruits and vegetables for school lunch programs. Additionally, I was quite pleased that the production of many Georgia-based products like cotton and peanuts would be strengthened through the proposed Farm Bill’s programs. “Unfortunately, what many of us feared might happen, did happen. Due to overall reduced budget allocations, the initial draft included $20.5 billion in egregious SNAP cuts (compared to only $4 billion of cuts in the Senate Bill), the program our nation uses to protect and nourish those without sufficient food. While I hoped that those and other troubling issues would have been addressed in conference with the Senate, even more reckless and devastating amendments were added to the bill on the floor, forcing even more drastic and unconscionable cuts to the SNAP program. “As an American who believes in protecting our nation’s vulnerable, as a Christian who believes in the charity of mankind, and as a legislator who believes in supporting reasonable and fiscally responsible policy, I could not, in good conscience, support the end product that was ultimately voted down on the Floor by the full House of Representatives. “I want to thank Chairman Frank Lucas and Ranking Member Colin Peterson for the tremendous job they did in crafting the FARRM Act, and I look forward to working with my House and Senate colleagues going forward to hammer out a substantive bill that saves taxpayers’ money, reduces deficit spending, and provides America the blueprint and resources it needs and deserves from a federal Farm Bill.” H.R. 1947, the Federal Agriculture Reform and Risk Management Act (FARRM Act) failed on a vote of 195 to 234. Congressman Bishop voted against this bill. BACKGROUND While Congressman Sanford Bishop was in favor of provisions in the FARRM Act relating to marketing loans, regulatory relief, crop insurance, price support for peanuts, STAX for cotton, streamlining and consolidations of conservation programs, the Environmental Quality Incentives Program (EQUIP), the Market Access Program (MAP), Food for Peace Act, nutrition programs, beginning farmer and rancher provisions, business loans and grants, dairy programs, broadband infrastructure, community facilities, agriculture research, and forest conservation programs, Congressman Bishop could not vote support the bill’s ‘poison pill’ measures making cuts to SNAP. AMENDMENT #22: This amendment encourages states to perform suspicionless drug testing as a condition for receiving SNAP benefits, thus criminalizing food assistance, placing unnecessary financial burdens on taxpayers and state budgets. AMENDMENT #102: Would restrict access to SNAP benefits by placing work requirements on individuals regardless of economic environment or access to jobs. AMENDMENT #103: This amendment would result in lower SNAP benefits for children and other family members in the households of people convicted of such certain offenses, punishing the vulnerable for the crimes of another. The bill would reduce funding for the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) by $20.5 billion, effectively handicapping our nation’s poor by decreasing access to benefits focused on improving a family’s nutrition, health, and well-being. According to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, SNAP is used by 20% of all Georgians (1,970,000 residents). More than 75% of all Georgia SNAP participants are in families with children, almost 25% of all Georgia SNAP participants are in families with elderly or disabled members, and more than 44% of all Georgia SNAP participants are in working families. Almost 50% of those who receive SNAP benefits in Georgia are children. Furthermore, Moody’s Analytics estimates that in a weak economy, $1 in SNAP benefits generates $1.70 in economic activity. In 2012, SNAP benefits pumped about $3.12 billion into Georgia’s economy. Cutting the program would not only handicap Georgia’s vulnerable families and children but also weaken Georgia’s economy. ###
06.20.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement celebrating Juneteenth, a national and international commemoration of the end of slavery in the United States. “Today, as we honor the struggle and success of those who have come before us, we must also use this occasion to reflect upon ourselves and how we can each lead a life that honors the sacrifice of our ancestors,” said Congressman Bishop. “For Juneteenth is not only an annual reminder of the end of a dark period in our nation’s history, but a chance to rejoice at how far we have come as a society and contemplate how far we have yet to go. It is a celebration of freedom!” On June 19, 1865, two years after President Abraham Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation; Union Troops seized control of Galveston, Texas and declared all slaves free. Since then, Juneteenth has been nationally and internationally observed as the end of slavery in the United States for those who did not receive the news of emancipation until June of 1865. ###
06.13.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) took action to force an up-or-down vote by signing a discharge petition to bring up a bill he has cosponsored, H.R. 1595: the Student Loan Relief Act of 2013. The bill would freeze the interest rate on these loans at 3.4% for the next two years, giving Congress time to enact comprehensive student loan reform as part of a reauthorization of the Higher Education Act. “As many of the new jobs of the next decade will require further education, it is an economic necessity that higher education remains an accessible opportunity for every student,” said Congressman Bishop. “Already, too many students across the nation are burdened with rising loan debt, one of the largest hurdles of the education process. With student loan rates set to double in less than a month, we simply cannot afford to wait any longer.” In an effort to keep college loans affordable for our nation’s students, Congressman Bishop has already signed on as a co-sponsor of the Student Loan Relief Act of 2013. If this bill is not passed, the interest rate will double to 6.8% on July 1, 2013 due to the expiration of the College Cost Reduction and Access Act enacted in 2007 and extended for one year in 2012. The 2007 legislation overhauled federal student aid programs by reducing interest rates on the popular Stafford loan program, which help undergraduate and graduate students pay for their education. The Student Loan Relief Act of 2013 currently has 154 cosponsors, including Congressman Bishop. A discharge petition requires the House of Representatives to consider specific legislation once a majority of Members of Congress (218) have signed the petition. ###
06.12.2013	COLQUITT, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released a statement regarding the passing of H.E. “Buddy” Glass, long-time Sheriff of Miller County. “Sheriff Glass will be greatly missed and long remembered, as I know that he served the people of Miller County as their chief law enforcement officer with devotion and distinction,” said Congressman Bishop. “My heartfelt thoughts and prayers go out to former Sheriff Glass’ wife, his six children, the Miller County Sheriff’s Department, and greater Miller County community during this period of loss.” Taking the office in 1996, Sheriff H.E. “Buddy” Glass had been elected for his fifth term in 2012. Funeral services will be held on Thursday, June 13, 2013 at 4:00 PM at First Baptist Church in Colquitt. ###
06.12.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released a statement regarding the recent controversy surrounding data gathering by the National Security Agency. “There are bad actors in the world and I believe the American people want our government to have the necessary tools, with appropriate oversight, to protect our families and communities from those who would do us harm. While we value the right to privacy, it must be balanced against the need to protect us from violent attacks on our people and our infrastructure,” said Congressman Bishop. “Where our nation draws the line between national security and personal privacy is a very important discussion that we, individually and collectively, should continue in order to protect the checks and balances provided to the three branches of government by our Constitution.” ###
06.05.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, many students across the nation are burdened with rising student loan debt. In an effort to keep college loans affordable, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) has signed on as a co-sponsor of H.R. 1595, the Student Loan Relief Act of 2013, which would extend the current subsidized Stafford student loan rate of 3.4% for two years. If action is not taken, the interest rate will double to 6.8% on July 1, 2013 due to the expiration of the College Cost Reduction and Access Act enacted in 2007 and extended for one year in 2012. The 2007 legislation overhauled federal student aid programs by reducing interest rates on the popular Stafford loan program, which help undergraduate and graduate students pay for their education. “Millions of undergraduate and graduate students in Georgia and across the nation are in urgent need of relief so that they can continue to afford their education,” said Congressman Bishop. “It is imperative that Congress does all that it can to assist students with one of the largest hurdles they face throughout the education process, and help ensure that they will continue their studies and pursue their dreams.” It is vital that Congress ensure that millions of college students do not face higher loan rates, which would drive younger Americans deeper into debt. While a comprehensive solution is needed to address student loans rates, H.R. 1595 will provide the time needed for Congress to address a long-term solution to student borrowing rates while still protecting our students from higher interest rates. ###
06.05.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies, issued the following statement regarding the passage of the H.R. 2216, the Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of Fiscal Year 2014. H.R. 2216 passed 420 to 4. “Today, the House of Representatives came together in a bi-partisan fashion to provide our military the resources it needs to defend our country and fund the services our veterans may need to carry out successful, productive lives. This bill will continue our ongoing commitment to our nation’s service members, veterans, and their families without compromising on necessary resources for services, benefits, and construction.” “I am pleased that this bill also contains solutions to lessen the VA’s unconscionable disability claims backlog, including the funding and oversight to focus the development of an integrated electronic health records system between the VA and the DOD. Passage of this bill will also provide the necessary funding for maintenance and construction of military family housing, educational infrastructure for military children, and medical facilities.” “While our country still continues to grapple with serious fiscal challenges, passage of this bill is proof that members from both sides of the aisle can still work together to solve budgetary issues relevant to us all. Bolstered by the success of this passage, Republicans and Democrats in Congress need to start working together to resolve sequestration in a bipartisan way, reducing spending responsibly without undermining our economic recovery.” BACKGROUND: For Congressman Bishop’s remarks regarding the FY 2014 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Mark-Up, please click here. Below is a list of highlights of funding levels and other key provisions in H.R. 2216, the Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of Fiscal Year 2014: Veterans Affairs (VA) – The legislation includes a total of $147.6 billion in both discretionary and mandatory funding for the Department of Veterans Affairs. This funding will help provide our nation’s veterans with the services and care they have earned for their dedicated service to the country. VA Medical Services –The bill funds advanced VA medical services at $43.6 billion – providing for approximately over 6.5 million patients to be treated in Fiscal Year 2014. These funds will be used for mental health care services; suicide prevention activities; traumatic brain injury treatment; the treatment, housing, and job training of homeless veterans; and in rural health initiatives. DOD-VA Electronic Health Record – The bill contains $252 million in funding to establish a single, integrated Department of Defense (DOD) and Veterans Affairs electronic health record system. The legislation requires that a unified system be certified by the Secretary of Department of Defense and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, and confirmed by the Government Accountability Office (GAO), before the majority of funding for the program is released. Disability Claims Processing Backlog – In order to help the VA meet its goal of ending the disability compensation claims backlog by 2015, the bill provides $155 million for the paperless claims process system and $136 million for the digital scanning of health records. Additionally, funding has been provided for the hiring of 94 additional VA claims processors. VA Mandatory Funding – The bill fulfills mandatory funding requirements such as veteran disability compensation programs for 4.2 million veterans and their survivors; post-9-11 GI bill education benefits for more than 764,000 veterans; and vocational rehabilitation and employment training for more than 175,000 veterans. Oversight – Funds appropriated within the bill are to be designated for the development of an electronic health record system that meets the requirements of being single, joint, common, and integrated. Rigorous reporting requirements would be put into place to track the performance of each regional office on claim processing. Advance Appropriations for Veterans Medical Programs – The bill contains $55.6 billion in advance Fiscal Year 2015 funding for the VA – the same level provided in the President’s Budget request. This funding will provide for medical services, medical support and compliance, and medical facilities, and ensure that our veterans have continued, full access to their medical care needs. Military Construction – The bill provides $9.9 billion for military construction projects – a decrease of $670 million below the enacted Fiscal Year 2013 level. These programs include large and small construction and rehabilitation projects on military bases within the U.S. and overseas. Military Family Housing –The bill provides $1.5 billion to fund construction, operation and maintenance of military family housing for Fiscal Year 2014. This is $106 million below the enacted fiscal year 2013 level, due to savings from the privatization of family housing. The funding will ensure quality housing is continued for 1,231,044 military families whose loved ones are serving the country. Military Medical Facilities – The bill includes $927 million for construction and alterations for new or existing military medical facilities. These facilities support and care for 9.8 million eligible beneficiaries, including our wounded troops abroad. Department of Defense Education Facilities –The bill includes $798 million for essential safety improvements and infrastructure work at 17 Department of Defense Education Activities (DODEA) facilities located within the U.S. and overseas. This funding will help address health, safety, and efficiency problems at these facilities for military children and families. NATO – The bill funds the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment Program (NSIP) at $199.7 million which is $40 million below the fiscal year 2014 budget request and $54.2 million below the fiscal year 2013 enacted level. Guard and Reserve – The bill includes $676.3 million for construction or alteration of Guard and Reserve facilities in 25 States. Arlington National Cemetery – The legislation continues to provide for the much needed improvements the Arlington National Cemetery. For more information on funding levels and other key provisions in the Military Construction, Veterans Affairs Bill, please click here. ###
06.04.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies, issued the following statement regarding the start of floor debate on H.R. 2216, the FY 2014 Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act. “I am pleased that our bill provides $9.9 billion in military construction for military family housing, medical facilities, NATO, safety and infrastructure improvements in schools for military children, as well as for Guard and Reserve facilities around the country.” “I am also pleased that our bill provides $147.6 billion for the Veterans Administration, assuring that all areas of administrative expenses, research, medical care, information technology, and facilities will be adequately funded, allowing our Veterans to receive the highest quality of care. However, I continue to be frustrated with the unacceptable claims backlog and the lack of an integrated Electronic Health Records System which is causing unconscionable delays.” “Frankly, we have a very serious problem when there are over 850,000 veterans awaiting benefit compensation claims. I also find it troubling that we can put a man on the moon but cannot figure out how to create a joint integrated electronic health records system. It is my hope that measures taken in our bill will ease the difficulties of creating an electronic health records system and lessen the backlog of VA claims by providing for the seamless transition of medical records from DOD to the VA and thereby speeding up the claims process.” “Regarding the broader issue of fiscal responsibility, I continue to believe sequestration is the wrong way to reduce the deficit and balance the budget. While the VA is exempt from sequestration, I am very concerned about its effect on defense and military construction. Members of this Congress, both Republicans and Democrats, need to start working together to resolve sequestration in a bipartisan way, reducing spending responsibly without undermining our economic recovery.” Below is a list of highlights of funding levels and other key provisions in the H.R. 2216, the FY 2014 Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act: Bill Highlights: Veterans Affairs (VA) – The legislation includes a total of $147.6 billion in both discretionary and mandatory funding for the Department of Veterans Affairs. This funding will help provide our nation’s veterans with the services and care they have earned for their dedicated service to the country. VA Medical Services –The bill funds advanced VA medical services at $43.6 billion – providing for approximately over 6.5 million patients to be treated in Fiscal Year 2014. These funds will be used for mental health care services; suicide prevention activities; traumatic brain injury treatment; the treatment, housing, and job training of homeless veterans; and in rural health initiatives. DOD-VA Electronic Health Record – The bill contains $252 million in funding to establish a single, integrated Department of Defense (DOD) and Veterans Affairs electronic health record system. The legislation requires that a unified system be certified by the Secretary of Department of Defense and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, and confirmed by the Government Accountability Office (GAO), before the majority of funding for the program is released. Disability Claims Processing Backlog – In order to help the VA meet its goal of ending the disability compensation claims backlog by 2015, the bill provides $155 million for the paperless claims process system and $136 million for the digital scanning of health records. Additionally, funding has been provided for the hiring of 94 additional VA claims processors. VA Mandatory Funding – The bill fulfills mandatory funding requirements such as veteran disability compensation programs for 4.2 million veterans and their survivors; post-9-11 GI bill education benefits for more than 764,000 veterans; and vocational rehabilitation and employment training for more than 175,000 veterans. Oversight – Funds appropriated within the bill are to be designated for the development of an electronic health record system that meets the requirements of being single, joint, common, and integrated. Rigorous reporting requirements would be put into place to track the performance of each regional office on claim processing. Advance Appropriations for Veterans Medical Programs – The bill contains $55.6 billion in advance Fiscal Year 2015 funding for the VA – the same level provided in the President’s Budget request. This funding will provide for medical services, medical support and compliance, and medical facilities, and ensure that our veterans have continued, full access to their medical care needs. Military Construction – The bill provides $9.9 billion for military construction projects – a decrease of $670 million below the enacted Fiscal Year 2013 level. These programs include large and small construction and rehabilitation projects on military bases within the U.S. and overseas. Military Family Housing –The bill provides $1.5 billion to fund construction, operation and maintenance of military family housing for Fiscal Year 2014. This is $106 million below the enacted fiscal year 2013 level, due to savings from the privatization of family housing. The funding will ensure quality housing is continued for 1,231,044 military families whose loved ones are serving the country. Military Medical Facilities – The bill includes $927 million for construction and alterations for new or existing military medical facilities. These facilities support and care for 9.8 million eligible beneficiaries, including our wounded troops abroad. Department of Defense Education Facilities –The bill includes $798 million for essential safety improvements and infrastructure work at 17 Department of Defense Education Activities (DODEA) facilities located within the U.S. and overseas. This funding will help address health, safety, and efficiency problems at these facilities for military children and families. NATO – The bill funds the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment Program (NSIP) at $199.7 million which is $40 million below the fiscal year 2014 budget request and $54.2 million below the fiscal year 2013 enacted level. Guard and Reserve – The bill includes $676.3 million for construction or alteration of Guard and Reserve facilities in 25 States. Arlington National Cemetery – The legislation continues to provide for the much needed improvements the Arlington National Cemetery. For more information on funding levels and other key provisions in the Military Construction, Veterans Affairs Bill, please click here. ###
05.24.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement regarding the upcoming Memorial Day on Monday, May 27, 2013. “Each year on Memorial Day, Americans come together to remember those who have sacrificed their lives on behalf of our country in the name of freedom and democracy. The debt owed to them is immeasurable. Their sacrifices and those of their military families are freedom’s foundation. Truly, without the brave efforts of all the soldiers, sailors, airmen, Marines, Coast Guardsmen, and their families, our country would not live so freely.” “Every day, these brave men and women fight for our freedom. Our veterans, our service members, and their families understand that in order to defend these rights and the country they so dearly love, sometimes they must sacrifice their right to life to save another’s. Therefore, we must remember their contributions and sacrifices not just on Memorial Day – but every day. We must fight to ensure our Veterans and our military families have proper care every day – because they have fought to ensure we have freedom every day.” “Today, our hearts are with them – they sacrificed their tomorrows so that we might have ours. As we go about our daily routines, as we read our newspapers, as we go to work, and as we pray with our families, let us keep them in our hearts for all of our tomorrows. For without question, their contributions are unparalleled, and their courage and bravery have made this world a better place to live.” ###
05.21.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop (GA-02) supported on three measures to assist veterans in their efforts to reenter civilian life. H.R. 1412, the Improving Job Opportunities for Veterans Act of 2013; H.R. 570, the American Heroes COLA Act; and H.R. 1344, the Helping Heroes Fly Act, all passed unanimously. Congressman Bishop voted in favor of passage for all three bills. “As we approach Memorial Day, Congress and the American people will be honoring our veterans,” said Bishop. “In addition to remembering their sacrifice, Congress has the obligation to ensure that our veterans have the tools they need to. It is my hope that with these three pieces of legislation, we are investing in our brave service members now and well into the future.” Improving Job Opportunities for Veterans Act of 2013 (H.R. 1412): Provides incentives for employers to provide more on-the-job training for veterans, ultimately resulting in more veterans being hired into the workforce. American Heroes COLA Act (H.R. 570): Provides a permanent annual cost-of-living adjustment to the amounts paid to veterans for disability compensation and to their survivors for dependency and indemnity compensation. The measure also increases the rate of monthly compensation for aides and attendants helping the most severely injured veterans. Helping Heroes Fly Act (H.R. 1344): Directs the assistant secretary of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security for the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) to develop and implement processes to ease and facilitate an expedited passenger screening program for service members who are severely injured or disabled, along with their families. ###
05.21.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) issued a statement regarding the recent national discussion surrounding the Internal Revenue Services’ examination of 501(c)(4) organizations. “It is the job of the Internal Revenue Service to inspect with impartiality 501(c)(4) organizations to determine if they continue to be devoted solely to the promotion of social welfare,” said Congressman Bishop. “I was deeply troubled by the revelation within the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration’s report that cites that the IRS used inappropriate criteria to inspect certain organizations, and look forward to a swift remedy and correction of any improprieties. The American people deserve no less.” ###
05.21.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies, released the following statement after the Subcommittee reported its Fiscal Year (FY) 2014 Appropriations bill to the full House Appropriations Committee. “I am pleased that our bill provides $9.9 billion in military construction for military family housing, medical facilities, NATO, safety and infrastructure improvements in schools for military children, as well as for Guard and Reserve facilities around the country.” “I am also pleased that our bill provides $147.6 billion for the Veterans Administration, assuring that all areas of administrative expenses, research, medical care, information technology, and facilities will be adequately funded, allowing our Veterans to receive the highest quality of care. However, I continue to be frustrated with the unacceptable claims backlog and the lack of an integrated Electronic Health Records System which is causing unconscionable delays.” “Frankly, we have a very serious problem when there are over 850,000 veterans awaiting benefit compensation claims. I also find it troubling that we can put a man on the moon but cannot figure out how to create a joint integrated electronic health records system. It is my hope that measures taken in our bill will ease the difficulties of creating an electronic health records system and lessen the backlog of VA claims by providing for the seamless transition of medical records from DOD to the VA and thereby speeding up the claims process.” “Regarding the broader issue of fiscal responsibility, I continue to believe sequestration is the wrong way to reduce the deficit and balance the budget. While the VA is exempt from sequestration, I am very concerned about its effect on defense and military construction. Members of this Congress, both Republicans and Democrats, need to start working together to resolve sequestration in a bipartisan way, reducing spending responsibly without undermining our economic recovery.” The legislation is the first appropriations bill reported to the full committee this year. Below is a list of highlights of funding levels and other key provisions in the Military Construction, Veterans Affairs Bill: Bill Highlights: Veterans Affairs (VA) – The legislation includes a total of $147.6 billion in both discretionary and mandatory funding for the Department of Veterans Affairs. This funding will help provide our nation’s veterans with the services and care they have earned for their dedicated service to the country. VA Medical Services –The bill funds advanced VA medical services at $43.6 billion – providing for approximately over 6.5 million patients to be treated in Fiscal Year 2014. These funds will be use for mental health care services; suicide prevention activities; traumatic brain injury treatment; the treatment, housing, and job training of homeless veterans; and in rural health initiatives. DOD-VA Electronic Health Record – The bill contains $252 million in funding to establish a single, integrated Department of Defense (DOD) and Veterans Affairs electronic health record system. The legislation requires that a unified system be certified by the Secretary of Department of Defense and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, and confirmed by the Government Accountability Office (GAO), before the majority of funding for the program is released. Disability Claims Processing Backlog – In order to help the VA meet its goal of ending the disability compensation claims backlog by 2015, the bill provides $155 million for the paperless claims process system and $136 million for the digital scanning of health records. Additionally, funding has been provided for the hiring of 94 additional VA claims processors. VA Mandatory Funding – The bill fulfills mandatory funding requirements such as veteran disability compensation programs for 4.2 million veterans and their survivors; post-9-11 GI bill education benefits for more than 764,000 veterans; and vocational rehabilitation and employment training for more than 175,000 veterans. Oversight – Funds appropriated within the bill are to be designated for the development of an electronic health record system that meets the requirements of being single, joint, common, and integrated. Rigorous reporting requirements would be put into place to track the performance of each regional office on claim processing. Advance Appropriations for Veterans Medical Programs – The bill contains $55.6 billion in advance Fiscal Year 2015 funding for the VA – the same level provided in the President’s Budget request. This funding will provide for medical services, medical support and compliance, and medical facilities, and ensure that our veterans have continued, full access to their medical care needs. Military Construction – The bill provides $9.9 billion for military construction projects – a decrease of $670 million below the enacted Fiscal Year 2013 level. These programs include large and small construction and rehabilitation projects on military bases within the U.S. and overseas. Military Family Housing –The bill provides $1.5 billion to fund construction, operation and maintenance of military family housing for Fiscal Year 2014. This is $106 million below the enacted fiscal year 2013 level, due to savings from the privatization of family housing. The funding will ensure quality housing is continued for 1,231,044 military families whose loved ones are serving the country. Military Medical Facilities – The bill includes $927 million for construction and alterations for new or existing military medical facilities. These facilities support and care for 9.8 million eligible beneficiaries, including our wounded troops abroad. Department of Defense Education Facilities –The bill includes $798 million for essential safety improvements and infrastructure work at 17 Department of Defense Education Activities (DODEA) facilities located within the U.S. and overseas. This funding will help address health, safety, and efficiency problems at these facilities for military children and families. NATO – The bill funds the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment Program (NSIP) at $199.7 million which is $40 million below the fiscal year 2014 budget request and $54.2 million below the fiscal year 2013 enacted level. Guard and Reserve – The bill includes $676.3 million for construction or alteration of Guard and Reserve facilities in 25 States. Arlington National Cemetery – The legislation continues to provide for the much needed improvements the Arlington National Cemetery. For more information on funding levels and other key provisions in the Military Construction, Veterans Affairs Bill, please click here. ###
05.07.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The Military Coalition, a consortium of 33 uniformed services and veterans associations representing more than 5.5 million members, announced their strong support and full endorsement of H.R. 333, the Disabled Veterans Tax Termination Act. Earlier this year, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), the Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veteran Affairs, and Related Agencies, reintroduced H.R. 333, a bill to allow disabled veterans to receive the full amount of compensation they earned while serving their country. “The Military Coalition continues to fight for the interests of our armed forces community, including veterans and military families, and I am proud to have their support on this essential piece of legislation,” said Congressman Bishop. “Any veteran who has been injured during their service to our country has rightfully earned their military retirement pay and VA disability benefits. Certain current policies take money right out of the pockets of these Americans by effectively taxing veterans’ benefits. These policies must change and with the help of organizations like The Military Coalition, we shall succeed.” When a veteran receives income from multiple sources, such as from the VA and the Department of Defense, it is known as concurrent receipt. Under current law, many veterans are barred from collecting their VA disability compensation if they also receive military retirement pay, and face a dollar-for-dollar offset despite having earned both benefits while serving their country. The Disabled Veterans Tax Termination Act provides for a comprehensive solution to the concurrent receipt problem by expanding eligibility for concurrent receipt and eliminating the current system’s inequities. In their letter of support, 33 members of the Coalition thanked Congressman Bishop for his leadership, and made clear that they believe H.R. 333 is the most comprehensive legislation addressing the concurrent receipt problem and represents the Coalition’s ultimate goal on the issue. The Military Coalition, a leading champion for disabled retirees and their families, has vowed to push for passage of H.R. 333 in the 113th Congress. The Military Coalition’s members include: the Air Force Association; the Air Force Sergeants Association; Air Force Women Officers Association; AMVETS; Army Aviation Association of America; AMSUS, the Society of Federal Health Professional; Association of the U.S. Army; Association of the U.S. Navy; Commissioned Officers Association of the U.S. Public Health Service, inc; CWOA, U.S. Coast Guard; Enlisted Association of the National Guard of the U.S.; Fleet Reserve Association; Gold Star Wives of America, Inc; Iraq & Afghanistan Veterans of America (IAVA); Jewish War Veterans of the USA; Marine Corps League; Marine Corps Reserve Association; Military Officers Association of America (MOAA); Military Order of the Purple Heart; National Association for Uniformed Services; National Guard Association of the U.S.; National Military Family Association; Naval Enlisted Reserve Association; Non-Commissioned Officers Association of the United States of America; Reserve Officers Association; Society of Medical Consultants to the Armed Forces; the Military Chaplains Association of the USA; The Retired Enlisted Association; USCG Chief Petty Officers Association; U.S. Army Warrant Officers Association; Veterans of Foreign Wars of the U.S.; Vietnam Veterans of America; Wounded Warrior Project. To view The Military Coalition’s letter to Congressman Bishop, please click here. ###
04.26.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop Jr. (GA-02) issued a statement regarding the passage of H.R. 1765, the Reducing Air Flight Delays Act. H.R. 1765 will provide the Secretary of Transportation with the flexibility to transfer funds to prevent further disruptions resulting from Federal Aviation Administration furloughs. If enacted, this bill will end the air traffic control furloughs that have congested commercial aviation traffic over the last week. Congressman Bishop voted in favor H.R. 1765; the bill passed 361 to 41. “This bill will give the Secretary of Transportation the flexibility to stop the closure of the 149 identified contract towers across the country,” said Congressman Bishop. “As I and those in my District can attest, these contract towers, such as the ones in Albany and in Macon, play an important role in serving as a link between rural communities and the larger aviation network. Now that we have provided the Department of Transportation with the tools it needs to prevent FAA furloughs and contract tower closures, I am hopeful for a clearing of commercial traffic in the near future.” Currently, the FAA is furloughing almost 10 percent of its air traffic controller workforce on a daily basis. Since the furloughs began on Sunday through Wednesday this week, the number of air travel delays has totaled 8,804 compared to 2,795 for the same time last week. These delays inconvenience passengers and cause serious economic disruptions throughout the entire country. H.R. 1765 will provide the Secretary of Transportation with the flexibility the Department of Transportation needs to fix this problem without adding to the FAA’s budget. The additional flexibility in this bill will also give the Secretary the ability to restore the FAA’s Contract Tower Program. ###
04.25.2013	COLUMBUS, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop Jr. (GA-02), Ranking Member of the U.S. House of Representatives’ Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies, submitted comments to the United States Army’s listening session at Fort Benning regarding the Army's 2020 Force Structure Realignment. After the listening session, community feedback will be considered by Army Senior Leaders prior to any final decisions on base drawdown. “For the past seventy years, Columbus and Phenix City have supported Fort Benning’s mission to train and prepare our service members for the call to duty. Providing services, community, and opportunity, we are as intricately woven into the lineage of Fort Benning’s support to our military as any tank, battalion, or maneuver center has ever been,” said Congressman Bishop. “Certainly, I can personally attest to the pride we hold in our ability and willingness to serve our armed forces in this capacity, and these communities look forward to many more years of united service to the nation.” To view Congressman Bishop’s letter to Army Leadership, please click here. Background: In January 2013, the United States Army released a final Programmatic Environmental Assessment (PEA) Army 2020 Force Structure Realignment, which reviews and analyzes the impact of an anticipated force-wide restructuring plan. The Army has completed this analysis in an effort to ensure that vital national defense capabilities are maintained in a climate of budgetary constraints as U.S. missions in Iraq and Afghanistan are coming to an end. Consequently, the Army is beginning a process to reduce their total active end-strength from 562,000 to 490,000 by 2020 as part of the military’s overall budget reduction. As part of this drawdown, plans are being laid to deactivate eight Army Brigade Combat Teams. The Army has announced two of the deactivated brigades will come from units stationed in Europe, while the remaining six will come from twenty-one U.S. installations home to Brigade Combat Teams, possibly including Fort Benning, Georgia. Domestic sites being considered for force reduction also include: Fort Bliss, TX; Fort Bragg, NC; Fort Campbell, KY; Fort Carson, CO; Fort Drum, NY; Fort Gordon, GA; Fort Hood, TX; Fort Irwin, CA; Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson, AK; Joint Base Langley-Eustis, VA; Joint Base Lewis-McChord, WA; Fort Knox, KY; Fort Lee, VA; Fort Leonard Wood, MO; Fort Polk, LA; Fort Riley, KS; Fort Sill, OK; Fort Stewart, GA; U.S. Army Garrison Hawaii; and U.S. Army Garrison Fort Wainwright, AK. In order to view the entire Environmental Impact Statement, please click here. In order to view the Environmental Impact Statement sections that reference Fort Benning, please click here. To view Congressman Bishop’s actions regarding the extension of the PEA and urging the public to comment, please click here. Prior to the close of the PEA’s public comment period, Congressman Bishop submitted his own comments in a letter to Assistant Secretary of the Army Katherine Hammack echoing many of the concerns that have been raised and urging the Army to continue to support a strong Fort Benning. To view the letter sent to the Army, please click here. ###
04.24.2013	Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives in support of H.R. 360, a bill to posthumously award a Congressional Gold Medal to Addie Mae Collins, Denise McNair, Carole Robertson, and Cynthia Wesley, in recognition of the 50th commemoration of the bombing of the 16th Street Baptist Church where the four little black girls lost their lives. The bombing on September 15, 1963 is often cited as a catalyst for the Civil Rights Movement. Congressman Bishop was an original co-sponsor of H.R. 360. H.R. 360 passed 420 to 0. Please click here to view Congressman Bishop speaking on the House floor. Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr.’s remarks are as follows: “I thank the Gentlelady for yielding. Alabama named me, but Georgia claimed me. I remember vividly the Sunday of the bombing as a young boy in Mobile, Alabama. I’m reminded of the words of James Weldon Johnson. ‘Stony the road we trod, Bitter the chastening rod, Felt in the days when hope unborn had died; Yet with a steady beat, Have not our weary feet, Come to the place for which our fathers sighed? We have come, over a way that with tears has been watered, We have come, treading our path through the blood of the slaughtered, Out from the gloomy past, ‘Till now we stand at last Where the white gleam of our bright star is cast.’ Addie Mae Collins, Denise McNair, Carole Robertson, Cynthia Wesley. Four little girls are bright stars in the constellation shining down now as beacons of light for freedom and justice. And so today, 50 years after the senseless bombing in Birmingham, it’s all together fitting and proper that we should look back, commemorate the significance the sacrifice of these young girls, these four young lives. Truly it was a turning point—the murder of these youngsters whose only crime was going to the bathroom in church, that had sparked a nation, not only to mourn the death of innocents but to act to quell the turmoil and to move us toward freedom. I’m happy to join my colleague Congresswoman Sewell, Congressman Bachus, and all of the colleagues here in this House to appropriately pass legislation to award the Congressional Gold Medal to these four young martyrs in the fight for freedom.” ###
04.19.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Ranking Member on the U.S. House Appropriations Subcommittee of Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies, participated in a Subcommittee hearing regarding the proposed Fiscal Year 2014 budget for the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). The lead witness was Eric Shinseki, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs. In addition to Secretary Shinseki, witnesses included the Mr. Petzel, Deputy Undersecretary for Health; Ms. Allison Hickey, Deputy Undersecretary for Benefits; Mr. W. Todd Grams, Chief Financial Officer, Office of Management for the Department of Veterans Affairs; Mr. Steve L. Muro, Under Secretary for Memorial Affairs; and Stephen Warren, Acting Assistant Secretary for Information and Technology. At the hearing, Congressman Bishop expressed his concerns with the VA’s benefits claims backlog and the proposed VA Integrated Electronic Health Records system. Congressman Bishop questioned Secretary Shinseki about the VA’s FY 2014 budget, lack of claims processors, and extended process of creating a usable and transferrable health records system. Congressman Sanford D. Bishop Jr.’s prepared remarks are as follows: “Thank you Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, we have done a lot to ease the burden of military service, for example, the Congress passed the 9/11 GI bill, the Hiring Heroes Act, and the Caregivers Act, all with strong bipartisan majorities. However, we are still struggling in one area that can make a world of difference to a Veteran; this area is the claims process. We have a serious problem in this country when there are over 850,000 veterans awaiting compensation claims and over 600,000 that have waited in excess of 125 days, commonly referred to as ‘backlogged’. I have heard from many on the reasons for the backlog, the inclusion of Agent Orange, the winding down of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, the complexity of new wounds both physical and mental of our veterans, and more. But what I want to hear today and what I want to discuss is what is being done to fix it. I want to talk about results and how this FY 2014 budget is going to achieve those results. How are the initiatives and funding in this budget going to meet the Department’s goal to ‘End the backlog by 2015’? Because we can talk about increases in spending for VA until we’re blue in the face, but if there’s no results then we’re just wasting time and resources. And Mr. Chairman, when it comes to wasting resources in this current budget climate I cannot tell you how frustrated and disappointed I am in the recent announcement on the integrated Electronic Health Record program. Less than a year ago Mr. Secretary you and Secretary Panetta appeared before Congress promising to develop a single, common, joint electronic health record, that would according to your statement then, ‘Unify the two Departments’ electronic health record systems into a common system to ensure that all DOD and VA health facilities have service members’ and veterans’ health information available throughout their lifetimes.’ I personally believe DOD probably shoulders much more of the blame in this area than the VA and also much more of the wasted cost, but nonetheless I am tired of the promises made to the Members of this Congress on behalf of veterans with no results. Mr. Secretary, when I talk to veterans their number one issue is always VA claims and the number one issue being worked by my staff in Southwest Georgia is VA claims. The veterans of my district are growing impatient and so am I. Mr. Chairman, today is a very important hearing and I know I speak for many of our colleagues and Secretary Shinseki when I discuss how frustrated we all are with the situation. I know this a problem that will not be fixed overnight but my hope today is that we can focus on how we fix this problem together and quickly. Not just for the veterans waiting today, but for future generations of veterans to come. Mr. Chairman, thank you for the opportunity to share my concerns. I yield back.” ###
04.19.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today and earlier this week, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) voted to protect everyday Americans and strengthen domestic industry against cyber attacks by reinforcing federal cyber security efforts. Today, Congressman Bishop voted to support H.R.624, the Cyber Intelligence Sharing and Protection Act (CISPA). Earlier in the week, Congressman Bishop supported strengthening cyber security in a series of three votes; H.R. 1163, the Federal Information Security Amendments Act of 2013; H.R. 756, the Cybersecurity Enhancement Act of 2013; and H.R. 967, the Advancing America’s Networking and Information Technology Research and Development Act of 2013. “Cyber attacks on American industry cost our economy billions of dollars, numerous jobs, and an incalculable amount of classified and encrypted data,” said Congressman Bishop. “Congress needs to do everything it can to assist critical American infrastructure in defending itself, strengthen the private and public sectors’ security measures against cyber threats, and preserve civil liberties.” “Specifically regarding CISPA, the measure is a positive first step in addressing a very troubling gap in our cyber defense, and I look forward to continuing the discussion on how to further secure the United States against future cyber attacks,” concluded Bishop. Cyber attacks are a huge threat to American lives, national security, and the economy. In the past year alone, cyber attacks have hit vital resources, financial services, government agencies, media companies, and untold numbers of private sector businesses. Estimates state that billions of dollars in intellectual property and trade secrets have been stolen from the United States. Current law does not permit the information sharing necessary to protect America from cyber threats. H.R. 624, the Cyber Intelligence Sharing and Protection Act amends the National Security Act of 1947 to add provisions concerning cyber threat intelligence and information sharing and sets a structure to encourage the federal intelligence community to share cyber threat intelligence with potential private sector targets of cyber-attacks. H.R. 624 passed 288 to 127. H.R. 1163, the Federal Information Security Amendments Act of 2013 requires federal agencies to perform continuous automated monitoring of government information systems and conduct regular threat assessments in order to protect against cyber-intrusions. It also creates a new federal information security incident center to provide timely assistance in responding to security incidents. H.R. 1163 passed unanimously. H.R. 756, the Cybersecurity Enhancement Act of 2013 reauthorizes and expands programs aimed at strengthening federal cybersecurity, including measures to encourage students to pursue degrees in cybersecurity, creating a program to develop a strategic plan to guide the overall direction of federal cybersecurity, reauthorizing cybersecurity programs at the National Science Foundation (NSF), and directing the National Institute of Technology and Standards (NIST) to develop cybersecurity standards for the federal government. H.R. 756 passed 402 to 16. H.R. 967, the Advancing America’s Networking and Information Technology Research and Development Act of 2013 requires the development and recurring update of a strategic plan for the government's Networking and Information Technology Research and Development (NITRD) program. H.R. 967 passed 406 to 11. ###
04.17.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (D-GA) spearheaded a bipartisan letter with Congressman Peter King (R-NY) in support of the Department of Defense (DoD) Peer-Reviewed Prostate Cancer Research Program (PCRP). The funds will be directed to identify new methods to diagnose prostate cancer, develop new targeted Medicare and vaccines, and increase access to clinical trials. Seventy-one of his colleagues, including Congressman King, signed the letter in support of the initiative. “The Peer-Reviewed Prostate Cancer Research Program has produced some of the most cutting edge research on prostate cancer in the United States,” said Congressman Bishop. “Without sufficient funding, this innovative and vital program will be unable to conduct important clinical trials that will help to translate the program’s important research into treatments for the disease.” This year, nearly 238,590 men will be diagnosed with prostate cancer and over 29,000 men will die from the disease. African American men are at special risk for the disease, with the highest rate of prostate cancer in the world. Prostate cancer is the most frequently diagnosed non-skin cancer in the United States and the most commonly diagnosed cancer in men. Although prostate cancer results in 15 percent of cancer deaths in men annually, only 5 percent of our nation’s cancer research budget is devoted to the study of this disease. Since 1996, the House Defense Appropriations Subcommittee has been instrumental in advancing prostate cancer research by funding the DoD Congressionally Directed Medical Research Program for prostate cancer. The DoD has a long history of performing medical research studies and because of its administrative structure has demonstrated an ability to be flexible and quickly adjust responses to changing needs and priorities. The PCRP is the gold standard in prostate cancer research and an integral part of the national fight against this deadly disease. To read the letter to the House Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, please click here. ###
04.16.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), released the following statement regarding the explosions in Boston at the end of the Boston Marathon. “My deepest thoughts and prayers go out to the people of Boston as they, and our nation, cope with the aftermath of the bombings at the Boston Marathon. America’s willingness to stay strong in the face of terror was evidenced yesterday, not only by the immediate reaction of police and first responders to the scene, but also by the numerous heartwarming acts of kindness exhibited by residents of Boston directly following yesterday’s acts of violence,” said Congressman Bishop. “The bombing in Boston reminds us that it is our duty to remain vigilant against threats of terrorism against the United States, especially because we are repeatedly reminded that the lives of families and innocents are in danger. Our country and I stand with the city of Boston as the authorities work towards uncovering and bringing to justice those responsible for this tragic incident.” ###
04.12.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), member of the U.S. House of Representatives Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies cosponsored the newly introduced Pest Free Food Supply Act. The legislation would force the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to withdraw a proposed regulation that would remove the authorized food uses of the industry standard fumigant, sulfuryl fluoride (SF), often used in commodity and food processing facilities. If this EPA action is allowed to go forward, food production and pest management sectors will be left without a broad-spectrum fumigant and few viable pest control alternatives, creating a potential crisis for food safety throughout the United States. “The Environmental Protection Agency’s proposed regulation on sulfuryl fluoride may threaten the quality, safety, and affordability of a safe and common product used by Georgia’s food production and pest control sectors,” said Congressman Bishop. “In the past, the EPA has deemed sulfuryl fluoride safe for use, and these new rules will threaten to impair commerce and send jobs overseas. I urge the EPA to reconsider their proposal and work with Rural America in finding a common sense solution that does not damage the dynamic nature of the affected industries.” Lawsuit threats by environmental activist groups caused the EPA to flip-flop on its science-based approval of SF’s residue tolerances under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (FFDCA). As a result, on January 19, 2011, the agency proposed revoking the tolerances for SF residues on foods. EPA itself has admitted this action would have no meaningful public health benefits because SF contributes, in their words, “a tiny fraction,” of overall human aggregate fluoride exposures. Joining Congressman Bishop are 13 original co-sponsors: Reps. Tom Graves (R-GA), Kurt Schrader (D-OR), Jeff Duncan (R-SC), Ted Poe (R-TX), Lynn Westmoreland (R-GA), Doug LaMalfa (R-CA), Rick Crawford (R-AR), Bob Latta (R-OH), Austin Scott (R-GA), Steve Southerland (R-FL), Marlin Stutzman (R-IN), Ted Yoho (R-FL), David Valadao (R-CA), and Paul Broun (R-GA). The Pest Free Food Supply Act is supported by members of the Sulfuryl Fluoride Agricultural Coalition whose members include: American Agri-Women, American Farm Bureau Federation, American Seed Trade Association, California Grape and Tree Fruit League, California Walnut Commission, California Women for Agriculture, Cardinal Professional Products, Cocoa Merchants' Association of America, DFA of California, Dow AgroSciences, National Confectioners Association’s Chocolate Council, National Pasta Association, National Pest Management Association, North American Millers’ Association, Sunsweet Growers Inc., Trical, USA Rice Federation, Western Growers. The Pest Free Food Supply Act directs the EPA Administrator to withdraw the proposed order published in the January 19, 2011, Federal Register (76 FR 3422) pertaining to the pesticide sulfuryl fluoride. • Sulfuryl fluoride (SF) is a gaseous fumigant frequently used to treat a variety of commodities and food products. Common applications include mills and food processing facilities that process cocoa, rice, peanuts, pasta, dried fruits, seeds, walnuts and many other commodities. • The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has endorsed the use of SF as a replacement for methyl bromide (MB) since the Montreal Protocol determination that MB is an ozone depleting chemical. MB is being phased out globally. In 2002 EPA presented the manufacturer of SF with the 2002 Stratospheric Ozone Protection Award for developing SF and bringing it to market. • In January 2011, after being threatened with lawsuits by outside activist groups, EPA proposed an order in the Federal Register to revoke the food uses for SF. EPA proposed the withdrawal because certain drinking water systems contain high levels of naturally occurring fluoride that potentially pose an increased risk of dental fluorosis in children. • Sulfuryl fluoride is the smallest contributor to total fluoride exposure. EPA itself has described it as a “tiny fraction.” EPA has admitted its proposed withdrawal will have no meaningful public health benefits. • If finalized, the withdrawal order will leave food production and pest management sectors without a broad-spectrum fumigant – and few viable pest control alternatives. • Naturally occurring fluoride is not a pesticide and does not meet the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (FFDCA) definition of, “pesticide chemical residue.” • EPA already regulates fluoride levels in drinking water via the Safe Drinking Water Act. • If finalized, this EPA action would inevitably send a number of American jobs overseas. ###
04.11.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) took action to force an up-or-down vote by signing a discharge petition to bring up H.R. 377, the Paycheck Fairness Act. The bill would help close the gender pay gap by closing loopholes in and strengthening the nearly 50 year old Equal Pay Act, including providing effective remedies to women who are not being paid equal wages for doing equal work. “Congress must heed the voices of America’s women and bring up the critically important Paycheck Fairness Act for a vote,” said Congressman Bishop. “Equal pay is not simply a woman’s issue. It is a family issue. With families increasingly relying on women’s wages to make ends meet, we simply cannot afford to wait any longer.” Despite the fact that the Equal Pay Act will mark its 50th anniversary in June, women earn only $.77 for every dollar earned by men, amounting to a yearly gap of just over $11,000 between full-time working men and women, according to a report from the American Association of University Women. The $11,000 missing from women’s paychecks could purchase for a median family 89 more weeks of food or more than 3,000 additional gallons of gas or more than one year of rent. Congressman Bishop concluded, “Frankly, it is unconscionable that in 2013 we are still debating paycheck fairness. Women have the right to be treated equally, and so there should be no delay in achieving an America where women are truly being paid what they deserve.” The Paycheck Fairness Act was introduced on January 23, 2013, but Congress has failed to schedule a hearing or a mark-up on the bill. The bill currently has 192 cosponsors, including Congressman Bishop. A discharge petition requires the House of Representatives to consider specific legislation once a majority of Members of Congress (218) have signed the petition. ###
04.11.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) welcomed the U.S. Department of Labor’s (DOL) decision to restart outreach and admission activities at the Turner Job Corps Center in Albany, Georgia and at Job Corps centers nationwide. This step will allow the Job Corps centers to quickly enroll students once the enrollment freeze is lifted. Congressman Bishop has been working to end the enrollment freeze by holding conference calls with the DOL, sending a letter to Secretary of Labor Hilda Solis, and encouraging Assistant Secretary Jane Oates of the Employment and Training Administration to take the necessary steps to ensure that the Job Corps program remains strong for the future. “Today’s announcement is an important first step in ensuring that the Job Corps program continues its mission of helping young people receive employment and achieve academic success in Albany and across the country,” said Congressman Bishop. “It is vital that Turner continues to give our District’s youth the job training opportunities they need to succeed now and into the future. I am proud to have been a part of this fight and look forward to the Job Corps continuing its important work in Albany and throughout the entire nation.” For eligible young people at least 16 years of age, the Job Corps provides participants the necessary skills needed to achieve success, helping young people learn a career, earn a high school diploma or GED, and find and keep a good job. About 85% of Job Corps graduates are employed, enlisted in the military, or enrolled in advanced training or higher education within six months of graduation. The average Job Corps center supports 228 local jobs, and every dollar invested in Job Corps returns almost $2 to the local economy. Additionally, Job Corps students and staff are heavily involved in service to their communities, logging many hours of volunteer service every year. To view Congressman Bishop’s letter sent to Secretary of Labor Hilda Solis in January of 2013, please click here. ###
04.10.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) issued a statement following the release of President Obama’s budget proposal for fiscal year 2014. “Though not perfect, especially to those concerned with fully protecting Social Security, the President’s proposal is a first step towards finding a solid budget compromise which will reduce the deficit, invest in our nation, and strengthen our middle class,” said Congressman Bishop. “The people of Georgia have made it clear that they want government to make common sense and responsible decisions when tackling the difficult challenges our country faces, and so, I am hopeful that Congress will come together to craft a balanced agreement that will create jobs, lift sequestration, and reinforce the economy for the long term.” ###
04.09.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), founding Co-Chair of the bipartisan Congressional Military Family Caucus, commended the Georgia General Assembly and Governor Nathan Deal for working together to pass and sign into law House Bill 188, which allows veterans who have gained military certification in a trade specialty to apply for an immediate Georgia trade license, with the possibility of bypassing the usual application and testing process. The same opportunity is offered to military spouses who have a professional license from another state. “This law is a huge step forward for Georgia in carrying out our responsibility of ensuring our veterans are able to find work,” said Congressman Bishop. “Moreover, military spouses are on the front lines supporting our service members but face many challenges of their own, including frequent moves and disruptions in employment. The very least we can do is help alleviate the burden of those whose professions require state licenses by paving an easier and faster road for them to continue practicing in their professions here in Georgia.” About 35% of military spouses are employed in professions that require state licenses or certification, such as teaching or nursing. They also are ten times more likely to move across state lines than the general population. House Bill 188 was signed into law by Governor Nathan Deal on Monday, April 8, 2013. ###
04.05.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) joined 46 of his colleagues in sending a letter to Administrator Michael P. Huerta of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) protesting the closure of 149 federal contract air traffic control towers due to budget cuts associated with sequestration and requesting consideration of all possible alternatives to maintain some level of service for the air towers. Also today, the FAA announced that it will delay the closure of the 149 air traffic control towers until June 15, 2013 to resolve a number of legal obstacles in the closure implementation process and allow the agency to review appropriate risk mitigations. A four-week phased process was due to begin on Sunday, April 7, 2013. “The closure of these air traffic control towers is another example of the disastrous effects of sequestration,” said Congressman Bishop. “If the process is allowed to continue, it will have a severe impact on services to the Albany and Macon airports and potentially create a safety risk. I will continue to fight to keep these towers open and urge Congress to replace the sequester with a more sensible solution.” The letter to the FAA from Members of Congress lists some possible alternatives to the complete closure of all contract air towers, including other ways of reducing spending that would spread the burden across all programs or requesting a reprogramming of funds from Congressional appropriators. The letter also was sent to President Barack Obama and U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood. To read the full text of the letter to the FAA, please click here. ###
04.04.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Ranking Member on the Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies, expressed his congratulations to the Georgia Army National Guard for being selected as the overall winner in the National Guard Special Category of the 2013 Army Communities of Excellence awards competition. “This well-deserved award speaks to the hard work and exceptional performance of Georgia’s National Guard members,” said Congressman Bishop. “Under the leadership of Adjutant General Jim Butterworth, these outstanding men and women do not only serve in the National Guard, they serve our state and our nation with the highest standards of commitment and excellence. We are all so proud!” According to the U.S. Army chief of staff, Gen. Raymond T. Odierno, the award recognizes the best military readiness, which is vital to our national defense. All 54 Army National Guard organizations in the fifty states, three territories, and the District of Columbia participated in the annual competition. ###
03.28.2013	ALBANY, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) invited high school students from Georgia’s 2nd Congressional District to participate in the 2013 Congressional Art Competition. “I have long believed that in our area of Georgia, we have some of the best, the brightest, the most creative, and the most talented young people in the world,” said Congressman Bishop. “The Congressional Art Competition is an excellent medium through which we can channel the creativity and imagination of young students across the nation, promote art education, and give recognition to the outstanding work that our schools are doing to enable young people to realize their potential.” The winner of this year’s competition will have his or her artwork displayed for one year in the Cannon Tunnel, a busy underground walkway to the U.S. Capitol from the House office buildings. The winner will also be invited to join Congressman Bishop at a national awards reception in Washington, D.C. in May. All artwork must be submitted to the Albany District Office at 235 West Roosevelt Avenue, Suite 114 no later than Friday, April 26, 2013 at 5:00 pm. The official competition rules can be found here. For more information, please contact Ms. Toni Pickel in the Albany District Office by email at toni.pickel@mail.house.gov or by phone at (229) 439-8067. ###
03.27.2013	COLUMBUS, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop Jr. (GA-02), Ranking Member of the U.S. House of Representatives’ Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies, was informed by the U.S. Army that they will be conducting listening sessions at installations across the country regarding the Army's 2020 Force Structure Realignment, which will include our base, Fort Benning. “After two months of public advocacy and input into the Army’s end-strength reduction and reorganization assessment, people from the greater Columbus area will have the opportunity to hear from senior Army leaders about how decisions will be made and provide valuable input on behalf of the community,” said Congressman Bishop. “Though no timeframe or details are available as of yet, I am eager for our communities to have as much participation in the Army’s decision making process as possible, and look forward to the listening session, as I know citizens in the Chattahoochee Valley supports a strong Fort Benning as much as I do.” Beginning on April 8, 2013, the Army plans to conduct listening sessions at the installations that have an Army combined authorized federal civilian employee and military permanent population of 5,000 or greater. Community feedback will be considered by Army Senior Leaders prior to any final decisions. Exact meeting dates will be determined by the installations in coordination with Headquarters at the Department of the Army. More details to follow. Background: In January 2013, the United States Army released a final Programmatic Environmental Assessment (PEA) Army 2020 Force Structure Realignment, which reviews and analyzes the impact of an anticipated force-wide restructuring plan. The Army has completed this analysis in an effort to ensure that vital national defense capabilities are maintained in a climate of budgetary constraints as U.S. missions in Iraq and Afghanistan are coming to an end. Consequently, the Army is beginning a process to reduce their total active end-strength from 562,000 to 490,000 by 2020 as part of the military’s overall budget reduction. As part of this drawdown, plans are being laid to deactivate eight Army Brigade Combat Teams. The Army has announced two of the deactivated brigades will come from units stationed in Europe, while the remaining six will come from twenty-one U.S. installations home to Brigade Combat Teams, possibly including Fort Benning, Georgia. Domestic sites being considered for force reduction also include: Fort Bliss, TX; Fort Bragg, NC; Fort Campbell, KY; Fort Carson, CO; Fort Drum, NY; Fort Gordon, GA; Fort Hood, TX; Fort Irwin, CA; Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson, AK; Joint Base Langley-Eustis, VA; Joint Base Lewis-McChord, WA; Fort Knox, KY; Fort Lee, VA; Fort Leonard Wood, MO; Fort Polk, LA; Fort Riley, KS; Fort Sill, OK; Fort Stewart, GA; U.S. Army Garrison Hawaii; and U.S. Army Garrison Fort Wainwright, AK. In order to view the entire Environmental Impact Statement, please click here. In order to view the Environmental Impact Statement sections that reference Fort Benning, please click here. To view Congressman Bishop’s actions regarding the extension of the PEA and urging the public to comment, please click here. Prior to the close of the PEA’s public comment period, Congressman Bishop submitted his own comments in a letter to Assistant Secretary of the Army Katherine Hammack echoing many of the concerns that have been raised and urging the Army to continue to support a strong Fort Benning. To view the letter sent to the Army, please click here. ###
03.27.2013	LEESBURG, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop Jr. (GA-02) attended and spoke to students at Lee County Middle School during their GCEE Capital Hill Stock Market Challenge regarding the importance of education and economics. “In the last century, we were able to lead a technological revolution because our nation’s leaders, thinkers, inventors, investors, and entrepreneurs got a great education and had the desire to make America and our world a better place,” said Congressman Bishop. “I truly believe that our nation’s greatest days lie ahead, and through sound future investments in our business sector and financial markets, the knowledge learned through the GCEE Capitol Hill Stock Market Challenge will help our entire economy grow and prosper!” The Georgia Council on Economic Education brings the Stock Market Game to elementary through high school students across Georgia. Each spring and fall semester for ten weeks, students play by starting off with a hypothetical portfolio of $100,000 and researching publicly-traded companies on the Internet, reading business publications, and crunching the numbers to select stocks. The team from each school district or geographic region (in the case of independent schools) with the highest portfolio value at the end of ten weeks wins. The Stock Market Game offers a tool to Georgia teachers for helping students develop a solid understanding of how private enterprise works. Education about economics is not just about financial literacy, but also about the larger economic forces that affect everyone's financial circumstance. For more information on the Georgia Council on Economic Education and the Stock Market Game, please click here. To view a picture of the event, please click here. ###
03.27.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop Jr. (GA-02), Ranking Member of the U.S. House of Representatives’ Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies, issued a statement regarding the closure of the public comment period of the Programmatic Environmental Assessment (PEA) for the Army’s 2020 Force Structure Realignment. “While I can appreciate the Army’s initiative to restructure our forces in accordance with our operational requirements and today’s fiscal reality, Fort Benning has been a valuable asset to the Army and Columbus for generations,” said Congressman Bishop. “I take the commitment to supporting our soldiers, family members, veterans, and defense civilian personnel in and around Fort Benning very seriously, and so I join the local towns, cities, communities, businesses and Chambers of Commerce in urging the Army to carefully review the impacts on Fort Benning and the greater Columbus area laid out by the public over the past two months.” Yesterday, prior to the close of the PEA’s public comment period, Congressman Bishop submitted his own comments in a letter to Assistant Secretary of the Army Katherine Hammack echoing many of the concerns that have been raised and urging the Army to continue to support a strong Fort Benning. To view the letter sent to the Army, please click here. Background: In January 2013, the United States Army released a final Programmatic Environmental Assessment (PEA) Army 2020 Force Structure Realignment, which reviews and analyzes the impact of an anticipated force-wide restructuring plan. The Army has completed this analysis in an effort to ensure that vital national defense capabilities are maintained in a climate of budgetary constraints as U.S. missions in Iraq and Afghanistan are coming to an end. Consequently, the Army is beginning a process to reduce their total active end-strength from 562,000 to 490,000 by 2020 as part of the military’s overall budget reduction. As part of this drawdown, plans are being laid to deactivate eight Army Brigade Combat Teams. The Army has announced two of the deactivated brigades will come from units stationed in Europe, while the remaining six will come from twenty-one U.S. installations home to Brigade Combat Teams, possibly including Fort Benning, Georgia. Domestic sites being considered for force reduction also include: Fort Bliss, TX; Fort Bragg, NC; Fort Campbell, KY; Fort Carson, CO; Fort Drum, NY; Fort Gordon, GA; Fort Hood, TX; Fort Irwin, CA; Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson, AK; Joint Base Langley-Eustis, VA; Joint Base Lewis-McChord, WA; Fort Knox, KY; Fort Lee, VA; Fort Leonard Wood, MO; Fort Polk, LA; Fort Riley, KS; Fort Sill, OK; Fort Stewart, GA; U.S. Army Garrison Hawaii; and U.S. Army Garrison Fort Wainwright, AK. In order to view the entire Environmental Impact Statement, please click here. In order to view the Environmental Impact Statement sections that reference Fort Benning, please click here. To view Congressman Bishop’s actions regarding the extension of the PEA and urging the public to comment, please click here. ###
03.27.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) was presented the Award for Manufacturing Legislative Excellence from the National Association for Manufacturers (NAM) for his support and leadership in promoting issues important to the manufacturing industry that create jobs, spur innovation, and encourage growth. “We thank Congressman Bishop for ensuring that the manufacturing voice is heard in Washington,” said Tim Dill, Vice President and Plant Manager at the MillerCoors Brewery in Albany, Georgia. “It is leaders like Congressman Bishop who know that manufacturers are drivers of economic growth, job creation and prosperity.” “Manufacturers today compete in a global marketplace,” said Jay Timmons, President and CEO of NAM. “It is critical that Washington creates policies to keep us competitive and maintain our mantle of economic leadership. Congressman Bishop understands this and has consistently supported the pro-manufacturing agenda through his votes in Congress.” “Business and manufacturing drives the engine of our economy, and as such should be supported in any way possible” said Congressman Bishop. “I am truly honored to receive this award from the National Association of Manufacturers, an organization dedicated to non-partisan advocacy for America’s manufacturers. Our nation’s industrial spirit should never be stifled, and so I look forward to fighting for manufacturing now and in the future.” Selection for the Award for Manufacturing Legislative Excellence from the National Association for Manufacturers is based on members of Congress’ votes on key legislation identified as critical to the success of manufacturing in the United States. During the 112th Congress, Congressman Bishop supported 72% of the policies identified. These included key votes on issues such as energy policy, taxes, regulations, and others. For a picture of Congressman Bishop receiving the award, please click here. ###
03.16.2013	CAIRO, GA – Today, Saturday March 16, 2013, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop Jr. (GA-02) gave remarks at the newly renamed Jackie Robinson Boys & Girls Club of Cairo-Grady County ribbon cutting ceremony. Ground was broken at a new adjoining baseball field at the same ceremony. Congressman Bishop assisted with funding for the Boys & Girls Club through a $75,000 federal grant in 2010. “It has been said that the true person of success is not the person that climbs of this life with two hands, but climbs the ladder of this life with one hand and reaches back with the other. Jackie Robinson did that,” said Congressman Bishop. “Fittingly, the Jackie Robinson Foundation has continued his legacy, and has done so much to coach and mentor youth as they climb the ladder in life in order to succeed and grow in fundamental values and in leadership. Jackie Robinson was a trailblazer for others to follow, and the Foundation does much to uphold his memory and fill the shoes in which he ran so swiftly.” In attendance were the Mayor of the City of Cairo Richard Van Landingham, Frank Sanchez of the Boys & Girls Clubs of America, Teresa Harris of the Boys & Girls Club of Cairo-Grady County, Charles Renaud of the Jackie Robinson Foundation, members of the Robinson Family including Dr. Linda Walden and daughter Sharon Robinson, Willie C. Harris a former MLB player and member of the 2005 World Champion White Sox team, the oldest living player in the former Negro League Roosevelt Jackson, 5-time Olympian, and WNBA Player Teresa Edwards, former undisputed World Heavy Weight Champion Evander Holyfield, former NFL defensive back Myron Guyton, former MLB shortstop/third baseman Ernest Riles, and members of the Cairo and Grady County community. The renamed Boys & Girls Club is the Cairo-Grady County Unit of the Marguerite Neel Williams Boys & Girls Clubs. The Boys & Girls Club is a youth development organization dedicated to promoting the health, social, educational, vocational, and character development of boys and girls. It aims to help young people improve their lives by building self-esteem and developing values and skills during critical periods of growth. ###
03.15.2013	WASHINGTON D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford Bishop (GA-02) released the following video statement today in recognition of Women’s History Month during March of 2013. To view the video statement, please click below: To watch the video, please click above. A transcript of Congressman Sanford D. Bishop Jr.’s statement regarding Women’s History Month can be found below: For all Americans, Women’s History Month brings an excellent opportunity to come together to honor the extraordinary contributions women have made throughout our history. Far and wide, countless women have shaped the course of history and contemporary society. A bit closer to home, the women of the Second Congressional District of Georgia have done well to lead with historic firsts. Like Alice Coachman, native of Albany, was the first African American woman to win a gold medal, an honor she brought America for the high jump competition during the 1948 Summer Olympic Games held in London, England. As the First Lady, Rosalynn Carter from Plains focused national attention to advocacy surrounding mental health and the elderly. Today, she serves on the board of directors at the Rosalynn Carter Institute of Caregiving located at her alma-mater, Georgia Southwestern State University in Americus. Nearly 130 years ago, educator Lucy Craft Laney from Macon founded the first school for black boys and girls in Augusta Georgia. And who could forget the Mother of the Blues—Ma Rainey, from Columbus, Georgia. As of 2012, there were over 204 thousand women serving in the United States Armed Forces on active duty, in the National Guard, and in the reserves—not to mention the millions of women who provide support from military families. Our Nation owes the women of America a great debt of gratitude. I, for one, am certainly proud of their service. More and more, women join the ranks of those who dedicate their lives to public service. I am honored to have the opportunity to work with strong female leaders such as Mayor Teresa Tomlinson of Columbus, Mayor Dorothy Hubbard of Albany, county and municipal officials, and my colleagues in the United States House and Senate. Thank you. From being pioneers in the struggle for suffrage, to fighting economic inequality, to breaking glass ceilings across America, women in our country have, and continue to, overcome barriers that they face in order to reach full equality. Today, teachers and businesswomen and farmers and mayors—women from all walks of life!—better our society here in Georgia, our nation, and across the world. I would like to give special thanks to all the mothers and grandmothers. Not only do they personally leave an indelible impact on our world, but they also bear and raise our future generations. It is my sincere hope that during this Women’s History Month, Americans will continue to reflect and celebrate the contributions women have made to our great society. After all, where would the human race be without women? Thank you and God Bless. ###
03.15.2013	WASHINGTON D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford Bishop (GA-02) released a statement regarding his vote on H.R. 803, the Supporting Knowledge and Investing in Lifelong Skills (SKILLS) Act. The SKILLS Act consolidates 35 individual workforce investment programs into one block grant without evidence that it would improve the delivery of job training services. It also freezes investment in workforce investment programs; eliminates the current requirement that community-based organizations, community colleges, labor, and others are represented on Workforce Investment Boards, and abolishes the Disabled Veterans Outreach Program and the Senior Community Service Employment Program. Consequently, it puts at risk services for disadvantaged populations, including disabled veterans, youth, workers with disabilities, women, and older workers. Congressman Bishop opposed this bill. “Developing the Nation’s workforce so that it can succeed in the 21st century’s economy is vital for the future,” said Congressman Bishop. “It makes little sense to weaken our current workforce investment system as the economy continues to grow. America’s workforce deserves better.” Congressman Bishop did support a Democratic substitute which improves the existing workforce system by better streamlining and continuing the operation of job training, adult education, and post-secondary education programs; extending common reporting and performance measures across all programs; expanding the central role that community colleges play in job training; and strengthening state employment operations. Passage of H.R. 803 will harm low-income individuals and other disadvantaged populations by eliminating separate programs that target assistance to specific working groups. Though meant to cuts costs in the WIA, the Congressional Budget Office says the bill actually provides no budgetary savings. The bill also eliminates the current requirement that community-based organizations, community colleges, labor, and others are represented on Workforce Investment Boards. The SKILLS Act is opposed by the National Educational Association, the U.S. Conference of Mayors; the National League of Cities, the National Association of Workforce Boards, Easter Seals, Goodwill Industries International, National Coalition for Literacy, the Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights, and scores of other pro-workforce development organizations. H.R. 803 was approved by a vote of 215 to 202. For more information regarding H.R. 803, please click here. ###
03.06.2013	WASHINGTON D.C. – Congressman Sanford Bishop (GA-02), Ranking Member of the U.S. House of Representatives Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies released a statement regarding his vote to pass H.R. 933, the Department of Defense, Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, and Full-Year Continuing Appropriations Act of 2013. Passage of this stop-gap appropriations bill ensures the continued funding of all government operations. “First and foremost, we must ensure that government services continue to be available to the public.” said Congressman Bishop. “Although this current stop-gap funding bill is imperfect, it is necessary that it moves to the Senate because any delay past March 27 would shut down the government and significantly hurt the economy.” “It is my hope that a more reasonable stop-gap funding measure will be approved by the Senate, continuing the strong support for defense, military construction, and veterans’ initiatives found in the House bill as well as protecting vital health, education, agriculture, and job training programs,” concluded Bishop. “Our country relies on government to function with reliability and certainty, and so it is with my constituents, Georgia, and all Americans in mind that I cast my vote.” The current six-month continuing resolution is set to expire on March 27, 2013. In order to continue to fund government services, a new budget or funding measure must be signed into law. Yesterday, Congressman Bishop spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives regarding the weaknesses of H.R. 933, commonly known as the Continuing Resolution (CR). To view the video, please click below: Click above to watch the video. For more information regarding H.R. 933, the Department of Defense, Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, and Full-Year Continuing Appropriations Act, 2013, please click here. ###
03.01.2013	MACON, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement regarding the United States Department of Transportation’s announcement that Silver Airways has been selected to provide Essential Air Service (EAS) at Middle Georgia Regional Airport in Macon. “The announcement of new options for passenger flights for Middle Georgia Regional Airport in Macon is very exciting news for Macon and Bibb county businesses as well as for the traveling public,” said Congressman Bishop. “We welcome Silver Airways to Macon and look forward to their service being available to our constituents in Middle Georgia.” According to the USDOT, weekday and weekend non-stop roundtrip service to Atlanta, Georgia, and to Orlando, Florida to be provided beginning on April 1, 2013. For more information on the United States Department of Transportation’s announcement, please click here.
02.28.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) issued remarks to the Congressional Record regarding the dangers of the impending sequestration, or across-the-board budget cuts, which are due to go into effect on March 1, 2013. Below you will find the text of the statement submitted for the Congressional Record. “Mr. Speaker, throughout my twenty years representing Middle and Southwest Georgia in Congress, I have always done my dead level best to work with all of my colleagues across the aisle to find reasonable solutions for the nation’s issues. “Today, I come before Congress to appeal to reason. Without a doubt, the across-the-board spending cuts we call sequester will undermine our economy and hurt job creation. My district, home to Fort Benning in Columbus, the Marine Corps Logistics Base in Albany, the area outside of Robins Air Force Base, and thousands of service members, veterans, families, and supporting businesses cannot sustain the cuts proposed by Sequestration. “Furthermore, schools and teachers, law enforcement and crime prevention, public health and Head Start will be negatively impacted. The Second Congressional District of Georgia relies on these services, as do many of your districts. “Mr. Speaker, I ask for a balanced proposal. “We may be in the 11th hour, but we must act. We owe it to our constituents, we owe it to our districts, and we owe it to our nation.” Over the weekend, the White House released state-by-state reports on the devastating impact that sequestration will have on jobs and middle class families across the country. The report found that: Military Readiness: In Georgia, approximately 37,000 civilian Department of Defense employees would be furloughed, reducing gross pay by around $190 million. Army: Base operation funding would be cut by about $233 million in Georgia. Air Force: Funding for Air Force operations in Georgia would be cut by about $5 million. Teachers and Schools: Georgia will lose approximately $28.6 million in funding for primary and secondary education, putting around 390 teacher and aide jobs at risk. In addition, about 54,000 fewer students would be served and approximately 80 fewer schools would receive funding. Head Start: Head Start and Early Head Start services would be eliminated for approximately 1,700 children in Georgia, reducing access to critical early education. Job Search Assistance to Help those in Georgia find Employment and Training: Georgia will lose about $873,000 in funding for job search assistance, referral, and placement, resulting in 33,160 fewer people will get the help and skills they need to find employment. Law Enforcement and Public Safety Funds for Crime Prevention and Prosecution: Georgia will lose about $427,000 in Justice Assistance Grants that support law enforcement, prosecution and courts, crime prevention and education, corrections and community corrections, drug treatment and enforcement, and crime victim and witness initiatives. Public Health: Georgia will lose approximately $925,000 in funds to help upgrade its ability to respond to public health threats. In addition, Georgia will lose about $2.5 million in grants to help prevent and treat substance abuse, resulting in nearly 2,400 fewer admissions to substance abuse programs. Nutrition Assistance for Seniors: Georgia would lose approximately $1.3 million in funds that provide meals for seniors. Over the past six months, Congressman Bishop has traveled throughout the Second Congressional District holding public town-hall style dialogues in Columbus, Albany, and Macon to discuss the potential impact of sequestration on Middle and Southwest Georgia. For information regarding Congressman Bishop’s Columbus stop on the ‘Sequester Informational Tour’ with Senator Saxby Chambliss, Senator Johnny Isakson, Major General David Bockel, leadership of Fort Benning, the Columbus Chamber of Commerce, and the public, please click here. For pictures of the event, please click here. For information regarding Congressman Bishop’s Albany stop on the ‘Sequester Informational Tour’ with Senator Saxby Chambliss, Senator Johnny Isakson, Major General David Bockel, leadership of Marine Corps Logistics Base, the Albany Chamber of Commerce, and the public, please click here. For pictures of the event, please click here. For information regarding Congressman Bishop’s Middle Georgia stop on the ‘Sequester Informational Tour’ with Senator Saxby Chambliss, Senator Johnny Isakson, Congressman Austin Scott, Major General Rick Goddard, leadership of Robins Air Force Base, the Georgia Chamber of Commerce, and the public, please click here. For more information regarding sequestration’s projected impact on Georgia, please click here. ###
02.28.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement after the dedication ceremony for the Rosa Parks statue in the U.S. Capitol. “Rosa Parks’ conscientious decision to continue to sit inspired others to stand up in nonviolent resistance against oppression and opened the door for not only those of us who have been able to emerge as leaders in her wake, but for all Americans who now know greater freedom thanks to her sacrifice,” said Congressman Bishop. “Her statue in the U.S. Capitol will be a lasting reminder of the ideals which she exemplified and we hold so dear. Rosa Parks proved to our nation and to the world that, no matter how small, one can make a difference.” The new statue of Rosa Parks is the first full-size statue of an African-American woman in the U.S. Capitol. Congressman Bishop joined President Barack Obama and his colleagues from the House and the Senate at today’s dedication. ###
02.27.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) joined 166 of his colleagues in co-sponsoring H.R. 12, the Voter Empowerment Act within the House of Representatives. The Voter Empowerment Act helps to ensure equal access to the ballot for every eligible voter, modernizes our voter registration system to help more Americans participate, and take steps to eliminate deceptive practices and voter fraud that deter voters from casting their ballots. A companion bill has been introduced in the Senate. “As citizens of this great country, we are entrusted with a great responsibility to exercise one of our most sacred constitutional rights, the right to choose our elected officials,” said Congressman Sanford Bishop “As seen during the 2012 Presidential election, many states have enacted or proposed strict voting laws that impose unfair restrictions on eligible voters across the country. We cannot let any voter, especially students, the elderly, the disabled, minority, and low-income voters directly affected by these restrictions, be prevented from exercising their right to vote.” “The right to vote is precious, almost sacred. Too many people in this country had to give their lives to exercise a right already guaranteed them by the Constitution,” said Congressman John Lewis (GA-05). “Outlawing the poll tax 49 years ago, does not mean we were finished protecting democratic freedom. New challenges to equal access still arise today. To be a credible voice for equal justice abroad, we must be watchful here at home to alleviate every historic and current impediment to the democratic process.” H.R. 12 makes certain of better access to the ballot by modernizing the voter registration system, ensuring access to online voter registration, guaranteeing military and overseas Americans’ ballots are counted, allowing for same day registration, opening online voter registration access, notifying voters when changes are made, encouraging youth to become voters, assisting voters with disabilities, and restoring rehabilitated citizens’ right to vote. The Voter Empowerment Act preserves integrity in voting systems by restoring trust in elections officials, providing informed and reliable poll workers, counts all provisional ballots, prohibiting voter caging, and protecting voters from deceptive practices and intimidation. Additionally, the bill demands accountability in election administration by creating a national voter hotline, ensuring votes are counted correctly, and by reauthorizing the Election Assistance Commission. While this bill would not require states to have stronger voting rights, it provides a blueprint and suggestions for a better national system. For more information on H.R. 12, the Voter Empowerment Act, please click here. ###
02.21.2013	MACON, GA – Tonight, over 50 Macon residents tried their hand at balancing the federal budget during a deficit reduction workshop held by Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02). The non-partisan Concord Coalition helped organize the event at Vineville Academy. During the event, participants were placed in the role of the legislator and educated on the difficult balancing of priorities that is necessary to reduce the deficit and balance the budget. Participants were also given the chance to review current budget priorities, suggest proposals, and discuss their political and fiscal implications. “Finding a solution for our nation’s fiscal challenges will not be easy,” said Congressman Bishop. “I believe that if we are going to balance the budget and reduce the deficit, we must get past the rigid ideological differences that have prevented us from finding effective bipartisan solutions that grow our economy and put our fiscal house in order for the long term.” Tonight’s town hall comes at a critical time for our nation. On March 1, the “sequester,” or across-the-board budget cuts, will be implemented as mandated by the Budget Control Act of 2011. With the nation focused on the budgetary issues facing the United States, Congressman Bishop wanted to hear directly from local residents about their concerns and listen to their potential solutions. Congressman Bishop is a member of the Blue Dog Coalition of fiscally responsible Democrats who are working to find a responsible framework to reduce spending, pay down our national debt, and balance the budget. The Concord Coalition is a nationwide, non-partisan, grassroots organization dedicated to educating the public about the causes and consequences of federal budget deficits. This is the third event Congressman Bishop and the Concord Coalition have conducted in the Second Congressional District, holding previous workshops in Albany and Columbus. ###
02.19.2013	COLUMBUS, GA – In response to a letter sent by Congressman Sanford D. Bishop Jr. (GA-02), Ranking Member of the U.S. House of Representatives’ Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies, the Army has granted an extension of 30 days to the public comment period for their Programmatic Environmental Assessment (PEA) for Army 2020 Force Structure Realignment. “As you know, this decision [whether to inactivate a brigade at Fort Benning or other installations] will have a tremendous impact on my district in Southwest Georgia,” wrote Congressman Bishop. “It is important all of our local leaders have adequate time to view, assess, and comment on the data provided in the report to ensure the greatest accuracy possible.” In January 2013, the United States Army released a final Programmatic Environmental Assessment (PEA) Army 2020 Force Structure Realignment, which reviews and analyzes the impact of an anticipated force-wide restructuring plan. The Army has completed this analysis in an effort to ensure that vital national defense capabilities are maintained in a climate of budgetary constraints as U.S. missions in Iraq and Afghanistan are coming to an end. Consequently, the Army is beginning a process to reduce their total active end-strength from 562,000 to 490,000 by 2020 as part of the military’s overall budget reduction. As part of this drawdown, plans are being laid to deactivate eight Army Brigade Combat Teams. The Army has announced two of the deactivated brigades will come from units stationed in Europe, while the remaining six will come from twenty-one U.S. installations home to Brigade Combat Teams, possibly including Fort Benning, Georgia Domestic sites being considered for force reduction also include: Fort Bliss, TX; Fort Bragg, NC; Fort Campbell, KY; Fort Carson, CO; Fort Drum, NY; Fort Gordon, GA; Fort Hood, TX; Fort Irwin, CA; Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson, AK; Joint Base Langley-Eustis, VA; Joint Base Lewis-McChord, WA; Fort Knox, KY; Fort Lee, VA; Fort Leonard Wood, MO; Fort Polk, LA; Fort Riley, KS; Fort Sill, OK; Fort Stewart, GA; U.S. Army Garrison Hawaii; and U.S. Army Garrison Fort Wainwright, AK. In making a final determination, the Army will consider environmental issues; socioeconomic impact (reduced employment, income, regional population, and sales); as well as operational (military value); cost, strategy and geographic distribution; investment and regeneration; and soldier and family quality of life. “It cannot be understated how important Fort Benning, its service members, and support staff are to the community and economy of the greater Columbus region,” said Congressman Bishop. “Given the potential impact of the PEA on Fort Benning and the surrounding area, I would urge anyone concerned about the potential loss of a brigade to submit a public comment. It is vital that the details of the PEA are accurate, and we must continue to do all that we can to support our soldiers.” In order to view the entire Environmental Impact Statement, please click here. In order to view the Environmental Impact Statement sections that reference Fort Benning, please click here. The public comment period ends on March 21, 2013. Comments can be submitted to USARMY.JBSA.AEC.MBX@mail.mil or written comments can be sent to: USAEC Attn: IMPA-AE (Army 2020 PEA) 2450 Connell Road (Bldg 2264) Fort Sam Houston, Texas 78234-7664 ###
02.13.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. —Yesterday, Congressman Sanford Bishop (GA-02) and 86 of his colleagues sent a letter to United States Postmaster General and Chief Executive Officer Patrick Donahoe urging him to protect seniors, veterans, and other patients by ensuring the continuation of 6 day delivery for prescription medicine. “In our home districts, Medicare, Medicaid, TRICARE, VA and other beneficiaries currently rely on low cost delivery of prescription drugs to their doorstep,” the letter reads. “Whether it is a homebound senior that cannot walk or drive to the pharmacy, or a veteran who lives in a rural area with limited access to the prescription drugs they need, all of these home delivery beneficiaries cannot afford to go without their medications for days…Please ensure that [USPS] properly examines all the ways in which prescription drugs are mailed through USPS, and exempt them from your new [proposed] 5-day delivery schedule.” On Wednesday, February 6, 2013, the United States Postal Service (USPS) announced it will be cutting Saturday mail delivery beginning August 1, 2013 in order to trim costs. Congressman Bishop is opposed to the new schedule, as much of Southwest Georgia relies on timely mail delivery. To view the letter sent to USPS Postmaster General Donohoe, please click here. More details regarding the USPS’ proposed schedule may be found here. Congressman Bishop’s response to the announcement may be found here. ### The letter can be found here, and in text below: February 11, 2013 Patrick R. Donahoe Postmaster General and Chief Executive Officer United States Postal Service 475 L’Enfant Plaza, Southwest Washington, D.C. 20260 Dear Postmaster General Donahoe, On behalf of the undersigned Members of Congress, I would like to express our concern with your recent announcement to end the United States Postal Service’s tradition of a six-day mail delivery and its effect on the growing population of seniors, servicemen and women, Veterans, and disabled Americans that rely on home delivery of their prescription drugs. Some of us are opposed to the new 5-day delivery schedule, others have welcomed it; regardless, all of us want to ensure that our constituents will be able to receive the medications that they depend on in a timely manner. In our home districts, Medicare, Medicaid, TRICARE, VA and other beneficiaries currently rely on low cost delivery of prescription drugs to their doorstep. Whether it is a homebound senior that cannot walk or drive to the pharmacy, or a veteran who lives in a rural area with limited access to the prescription drugs they need, all of these home delivery beneficiaries cannot afford to go without their medications for days. Nor should they have to obtain the medications through more costly delivery methods, which would only draw business away from the USPS and threaten its long term financial stability. This growing population of home delivery prescription beneficiaries is not only good for the USPS and patients, but our government as a whole. According to the Department of Defense, the government saved $33 million in FY2010 alone through use of TRICARE’s Home Delivery Program. Home delivery is the most cost effective way of filling prescriptions for TRICARE beneficiaries, and saves Medicare and Medicaid money as well. This integral part of the USPS’s services should not be changed in your reform and restructuring of the federal postal service. Ahead of your testimony before the Senate Homeland Security and Government Operations Committee on Wednesday, February 13, we would like you to lay out specific guidelines that would include prescription drugs in 6-day package delivery. Although you have mentioned that packages will be included in Saturday delivery, we would like further clarification on which classes of service and formal definitions of package you will consider. Some medications are mailed in small plastic envelopes that don’t fit in the traditional definition of package, while others are mailed through first class service and thus, may be eliminated on Saturdays depending on your guidance. Please ensure that they properly examine all the ways in which prescription drugs are mailed through USPS, and exempt them from your new 5-day delivery schedule. We look forward to hearing your response and working together to ensure the quality of service provided to our constituents will remain the same, and that the Postal Office grows its business and stays strong for the decades to come. Sincerely, Sanford Bishop (GA-02) Tammy Duckworth (IA-08) Ron Barber (AZ-02) Joyce Beatty (OH-03) Ami Bera (CA-07) Earl Blumenhauer (OR-3) Suzanne Bonamici (OR-01 Julia Brownley (CA-26) Cheri Bustos (IL-17) G.K. Butterfield (NC-01) Lois Capps (CA-24) Tony Cardenas (CA-29) John Carter (TX-31) Kathy Castor (FL-14) Donna M Christensen (Virgin Islands) David N. Cicilline (RI-01) Yvette Clarke (NY-09) Emanuel Cleaver (MO-05) Steve Cohen (TN-09) Elijah Cummings (MD-07) Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25) Peter Defazio (OR-04) Rosa DeLauro (CT-03) Donna Edwards (MD-04) Keith Ellison (MN-05) Eliot Engel (NY-16) William Enyart (IL-12) Anna Eshoo (CA-18) Elizabeth Esty (CT-05) Eni F.H. Faleomavenga (AS) Sam Farr (CA-20) Michael G. Fitzpatrick (PA-08) Louis Frankel (FL-22) Pete Gallego (TX-23) Gene Green (TX-29) Raul Grijalva (AZ-03) Janice Hahn (CA-44) Colleen Hanabusa (HI-01) Mike Honda (CA-17) Jared Huffman (CA-02) Hank Johnson (GA-04) Dan Kildee (MI-05) Joseph Kennedy (MA-04) Derek Kilmer (WA-06) Ann Kirkpatrick (AZ-01) Jim Langevin (RI-02) Tom Latham (IA-05) Barbara Lee (CA-13) Sander Levin (MI-09) John Lewis (GA-05) Dan Lipinski (IL-03) Dave Loebsack (IA-02) Zoe Lofgren (CA-19) Alan Lowenthal (CA-47) Stephen Lynch (MA-09) Carolyn Maloney (NY-12) Doris Matsui (CA-06) Carolyn McCarthy (NY-04) Jim McDermott (WA-07) James McGovern (MA-02) Jerry McNerney (CA-09) Michael Michaud (ME-02) Jerrold Nadler (NY-10) Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC) Rich Nugent (FL-11) Donald Payne Jr. (NJ-10) Scott Peters (CA-52) Chelllie Pingree (ME-01) Mark Pocan (WI-2) Jared Polis (CO-02) Carol Shea Porter (NH-01) Mike Quigley (IL-05) Nick Rahall (WV-03) Cedric Richmond (LA-02) Raul Ruiz, M.D. (CA-36) Linda Sanchez (CA-38) Jan Schakowsky (IL-09) Adam Schiff (CA-28) Bradley Schneider (IL-10) Terri A. Sewell (AL-07) John Shimkus (IL-15) Albio Sires (NJ-08) Mark Takano (CA-41) Juan Vargas (CA-51) Timothy Walz (MN-01) Henry Waxman (CA-33) Kevin Yoder (KS-03) C.W. Bill Young (FL-13)
02.13.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) issued the following statement regarding President Obama’s State of the Union address to a joint session of Congress. “The President summarized the nation’s stark challenges in an impressive and measured speech this evening. The President believes, as I do, that the economy grows when the middle class is strengthened—that when small business and our infrastructure are supported, jobs are created—and that the only way to balance our budget is to reach across the aisle and come to an agreement. “Unfortunately, we find ourselves in a tough situation. Education and training initiatives are underfunded, high unemployment rates persist, and the federal government continues to sink deeper in debt. Sequester looms on the horizon while the current state of government seems to be mired in partisan bickering. “There remain many differences to be worked out in Washington, not only between Democrats and Republicans but also between the President and Congress. While opposing sides may reasonably disagree within debate, there comes a time when we must find a middle ground and advance the agenda. Otherwise, our nation strays towards stagnation. “And yet, I believe we will find a way. I look forward to Congress working in a bipartisan and bicameral fashion with the Administration in tackling those challenges the President has presented. Truly, the future of the Union will depend on government working in a reasonable manner to put the interests of hard-working American families first and foremost so we get our fiscal house in order and move forward, together as a nation.” ###
02.07.2013	COLQUITT, GA—Secretary of Agriculture Thomas J. Vilsack recently announced that 23 counties in Georgia have been named primary or contiguous natural disaster areas due to a recent drought. In accordance with the designation, farm operators in primary counties and contiguous counties are now eligible to be considered for emergency loans from the Farm Service Agency (FSA) for the next eight months. Bryan, Bulloch, Chatham, Colquitt, Effingham, Jenkins, Miller, Screven, and Seminole counties have been designated as primary affected counties. Baker, Brooks, Burke, Candler, Cook, Decatur, Early, Emanuel, Evans, Liberty, Mitchell, Thomas, Tift, and Worth counties have been designated contiguous disaster counties. A number of other counties in Georgia already have been designated as natural disaster counties for the current crop year. According to the U.S. Drought Monitor, these counties have suffered from a drought intensity value during the growing season of (1) D2 (Drought-Severe) for eight or more consecutive weeks; or (2) D3 (Drought-Extreme) or D4 (Drought-Exceptional). To learn more about FSA disaster assistance loans for farmers, please click here. ###
02.06.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), member of the U.S. House of Representatives Appropriations Committee, released a statement regarding the recent news that the United States Postal Service (USPS) will be cutting Saturday mail delivery beginning August 1, 2013 in order to trim costs. “While I understand the financial challenges currently facing the United States Postal Service and its need to reduce costs, many people rely on timely mail delivery in Southwest and Middle Georgia,” said Congressman Bishop. “The House of Representatives needs to pass a postal reform bill, much like the Senate did last Congress, so that the Postal Service can get their fiscal house in order and provide the mail service that all Americans require.” “The United States Postal Service may be acting outside of its legal authority if it suspends Saturday delivery as previous language in appropriations bills requires six-day mail,” said Congressman Bishop. “It is vital that the USPS work with Congress to develop a plan that allows it to become more fiscally efficient while keeping the services that Americans rely upon.” ###
02.06.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released a quote regarding the recent news that the United States Postal Service (USPS) will be cutting Saturday mail delivery beginning August 1, 2013 in order to trim costs. “While I understand the financial challenges currently facing the United States Postal Service and its need to reduce costs, many people rely on timely mail delivery in Southwest and Middle Georgia,” said Congressman Bishop. “The House of Representatives needs to pass a postal reform bill, much like the Senate did last Congress, so that the Postal Service can get their fiscal house in order and provide the mail service that all Americans require.” ###
02.05.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (D-GA), member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies welcomed notification of an agreement between the United States and Mexico regarding the investigation of tomato ‘dumping’. Congressman Bishop has continued to be supportive of southwest Georgia’s tomato industry and has urged the Administration to find a solution to this issue. “The recent agreement between the United States and Mexico concerning reinstating fair conditions for the trade of fresh tomatoes comes as a great relief to tomato farmers in Southwest Georgia,” said Congressman Bishop. “Through the mutual efforts of the United States and Mexican governments, rural America can now get back to the business of supporting and selling the best tomatoes in the world without fear of unfair pricing.” “Congressman Bishop fought to help us get a fair deal,” said Reggie Brown, Executive Vice President of the Florida Tomato Exchange. “His support really made a difference in improving the suspension agreement.” On February 2, 2013, the U.S. Department of Commerce released a draft agreement between the United States and Mexico which suspends the antidumping investigation of imports of fresh tomatoes from Mexico that had originally been initiated in 1996. The proposed agreement covers imports of all fresh or chilled tomatoes of Mexican origin, except tomatoes that are for processing. Under U.S. antidumping law, the suspension agreement must prevent price undercutting and price suppression in the U.S. market and eliminate at least 85% of the dumping, thus providing the U.S. industry an opportunity to compete on a level playing field. In 1996, an antidumping petition requesting relief from unfairly traded imports of fresh tomatoes from Mexico was filed by tomato producers from across the nation. After examining the facts, the United States government determined that there was reason to believe the subject tomatoes were being sold in this country at less than fair value at margins as high as 188 percent. Today, Mexican tomato imports have roughly tripled, reaching a staggering level of approximately $1.8 billion last year. Tomato farmers in Southwest Georgia and Northern Florida are still reeling from the 2008 tomato salmonella recall debacle as consumers ‘quit buying tomatoes’ on the recommendation of the Food and Drug Administration and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. In Georgia alone, tomato growers lost over $14 million from tomatoes grown but not sold; growers nationwide lost more than $125 million. By terminating the existing agreement, fair market competition will be restored, predatory actions on the part of tomato producers in Mexico will be stopped, and Georgia growers of all size will be unburdened by the flood of unfairly priced tomatoes on the market. For more information regarding the draft agreement between the United States and Mexico, please click here. ###
02.01.2013	WASHINGTON D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford Bishop (D-GA) released the following video statement today in recognition of Black History Month during February of 2013. To view the video statement, please click here or on the picture below: A transcript of Congressman Sanford D. Bishop Jr.’s statement regarding Black History Month can be found below: For all Americans, Black History Month brings an excellent opportunity to come together, to honor a shared history, and to celebrate the inspiring contributions of our ancestors. Through the tapestry of our nation are woven many inspirational events relating the trials of overcoming hardship, often leading to hard-fought successes that established an indelible impact on American society for future generations. Starting with the sacrifice of Crispus Attucks at the Boston Massacre, African-Americans have bravely defended our freedoms throughout the nation’s history. Likewise, many of our forebears fought to extend liberty and equal rights for all Americans. Much as the Buffalo Soldiers opened the door for the Tuskegee Airmen, Frederick Douglass opened the door for Martin Luther King Jr. Thanks to the sacrifices of activists, advocates, and visionaries like Sojourner Truth, Harriett Tubman, Jackie Robinson, Mary McLeod Bethune, Booker T. Washington, Shirley Chisholm, Rosa Parks and thousands of others, today we have the right to stand up, fight for, and dream of a better life for ourselves and generations yet to come. As we celebrate this month of remembrance, let us look back in order to honor the struggles and celebrate the triumphs of African-Americans throughout our history. But let us not forget that those struggles were endured and those triumphs attained so that we may move forward. Our heroes of the past fought for that right. That right to look forward towards a future brighter than the past, filled with the opportunities that give our nation so much promise. If we wish to continue the progress of those on whose shoulders we stand, we should never forget our past. This February, I hope you’ll join me in celebrating Black History Month by recognizing two important victories in American history: the 150th anniversary of President Abraham Lincoln issuing the Emancipation Proclamation and the 50th anniversary of the Civil Rights March on Washington. As we look back to remember and to honor those who refused to allow the status quo to hold this nation back from the fulfillment of its promise, we remember the words of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. from that historic August day in 1963: “I have a dream that one day this nation will rise up and live out the true meaning of its creed: We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal.” With the second inauguration of President Obama, we are reminded that we have reached a new milestone in our nation’s history. It has been a long road to this point, and yet we have so much farther to go. For Dr. King, and all of us who follow in his footsteps, the “dream” is anything but an empty fantasy. It is an on-going call to action. It is a renewal of our commitment to stand up for the cause of freedom that is the heritage of each and every one of us as American citizens. It is my sincere hope that during this Black History Month, Americans will continue to reflect upon and appreciate our nation’s diverse cultural melting pot, as well as celebrate the contributions made by African-Americans to our great society as America so our children may look forward to a future of greater promise, greater justice, and greater opportunity than has ever been previously imagined. As we celebrate Black History month, let us remember the motto from Albany State University, “A past to cherish, a future to fulfill!” To watch on Congressman Sanford Bishop’s YouTube Channel, please click here. ###
02.01.2013	WASHINGTON D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford Bishop (D-GA) and Congressman Rick Crawford (R-AR) announced members of the bipartisan Congressional Chicken Caucus in the 113th Congress. Bishop and Crawford founded the Chicken Caucus in 2012 and will continue serving as co-chairs of the caucus in the 113th Congress. The bipartisan caucus will serve as a formal group of members whose mission is to educate other members of Congress about the history, contributions, and concerns of the U.S. chicken industry, which emanate from a wide range of issues pertaining to food safety, international trade, labor, immigration and the environment. Congressional Chicken Caucus Members: Congressman Sanford Bishop (D-GA), Caucus Co-Chairman Congressman Rick Crawford (R-AR), Caucus Co-Chairman Congressman Reid Ribble (R-WI) Congressman Austin Scott (R-GA) Congressman Bennie Thompson (D-MS) Congressman Andy Harris (R-MD) Congressman Tim Griffin (R-AR) Congressman Gregg Harper (R-MS) Congressman Walter Jones (R-NC) Congressman Alan Nunnelee (R-MS) Congressman Bill Cassidy (R-LA) Congressman Scott DesJarlais (R-TN) Congressman Jim Costa (R-CA) “As Georgia is the number one chicken product producing state in the nation, I am proud to be able to fight for an industry of such importance to the second Congressional District of Georgia,” said Congressman Bishop. “I look forward to continue working with the Congressional Chicken Caucus in creating a forum where chicken producers, processors, consumers, and retailers can provide members of Congress with their thoughts and suggestions on how to sustain and improve our poultry industries.” “The chicken industry employs over 300,000 workers in the United States. My Arkansas district is home to chicken production facilities like Peco Foods in Batesville. Working with caucus members, I plan to be a strong advocate for the 6,000 Arkansans who work in chicken production,” said Congressman Crawford. “My goal in co-founding the Congressional Chicken Caucus is to be a voice for the folks at Peco Foods in Batesville and Tyson Foods in Springdale. Working with Tyson and Peco, I hope to foster new development and move Arkansas forward.” U.S. chicken companies directly employ over 300,000 workers, producing products worth a wholesale value of over $45 billion dollars with major operations in more than 30 states. The more than 40 vertically integrated companies contract with about 25,000 family farmers to produce market-ready broilers, hatching eggs, and pullets. The industry’s induced economic impact can be felt in every sector of the U.S. economy and in every state. ###
01.29.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Representatives Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (D-GA) and Martha Roby (R-AL) announced the re-formation of the Congressional Peanut Caucus for the 113th Congress. The group of 17 lawmakers representing states with significant peanut farming and production will work together to ensure that peanut interests have a strong voice in Congress and that peanut issues are taken into account in agriculture legislation. Reps. Bishop and Roby will again co-chair the group. “I have had the distinct honor of being known as the ‘Peanut Congressman,’ a title I wear with great pride and take very seriously,” said Rep. Bishop. “The 113th Congress will be presented with numerous new challenges for America’s agriculture. As the peanut industry is crucial to the health and well-being of the rural South’s economy, I and the rest of the Congressional Peanut Caucus are committed to ensuring its success for the future.” “We saw last Congress what a difference it makes when Members from peanut-producing states team up to ensure our peanut interests are considered on equal footing with other types of crops in agriculture legislation,” said Rep. Roby. “As Congress considers the next Farm Bill, the Congressional Peanut Caucus will be back as strong as ever helping to facilitate communication and cooperation among Members from states with peanut interests. I look forward to working with my friend, Rep. Sanford Bishop and all our Caucus Members as we try to ensure a level playing field for our peanut producers.” Members of the Congressional Peanut Caucus are: Rep. Sanford D. Bishop (D-GA) Rep. Martha Roby (R-AL) Rep. John Barrow (D-GA) Rep. Jo Bonner (R-AL) Rep. George K. Butterfield (D-NC) Rep. James Clyburn (D-SC) Rep. Michael Conaway (R-TX) Rep. Rick Crawford (R-AK) Rep. Randy Forbes (R-VA) Rep. Walter Jones (R-NC) Rep. Jack Kingston (R-GA) Rep. Mike McIntyre (D-NC) Rep. Alan Nunnelee (R-MS) Rep. Austin Scott (R-GA) Rep. Terri Sewell (D-AL) Rep. Steve Southerland (R-FL) Rep. Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS) Peanut industry groups expressed appreciation for Members of Congress in taking an active role representing peanut interests. Don Koehler, Executive Director of the Georgia Peanut Commission said, "The Congressional Peanut Caucus provides a forum for the peanut industry to communicate directly with peanut state lawmakers about important consumer and industry issues. We are so grateful for Reps. Roby and Bishop taking the lead with re-establishing the Caucus. The Caucus plays an important role in educating members of Congress, who do not represent peanut states, about the economic and health impacts of peanuts. Peanut producers in the Southeast look forward to working with the Caucus in the 113th Congress." Randy Griggs, Executive Director of the Alabama Peanut Producers Association said, “As the number of lawmakers who represent rural areas declines, it is more important than ever that those with like interest remain united. This and the budget challenges our Country faces make the voice of the peanut caucus that much more important. Reps. Roby and Bishop are to be commended for organizing and promoting this group as a way to make sure that the voices of peanut producers are heard. It is an effective means of representing the nation’s growers.” Peanuts are the 12th most valuable cash crop grown in the U.S. with an annual farm value of more than $1 billion. American peanut farmers produce around 1.9 million tons of peanuts annually on approximately 1.44 million acres. A major staple for rural America, the states of Georgia, Alabama, Florida, Mississippi, Texas, North Carolina, Virginia, and Oklahoma produce approximately 99% of all peanuts grown in the U.S. Peanuts are an important nutritional resource with seven grams of protein per serving, more than any other nut. Peanuts are continuing their legacy as an invaluable research commodity, most recently in the field of health and medicine. The application of peanut research to yield a better understanding of disease risk reduction, practical dietary interventions associated with Type 2 Diabetes, and some cancers could be the next big peanut breakthrough. ###
01.28.2013	VA/DoD Continue to Improve Online Access to Benefits Information New Functionality Added to Online Benefits Portal WASHINGTON - The Departments of Veterans Affairs and Defense (DoD) just released improvements to the functionality of eBenefits, a joint self-service web portal that provides registered users with secure online information and access to a variety of military and Veterans benefits resources. “eBenefits is clearly becoming the platform of choice for Veterans seeking access to the numerous benefits they have earned,” said Undersecretary for Benefits Allison A. Hickey. “The increasing capabilities of eBenefits give Veterans and Servicemembers greater flexibility in securing the information they are looking for.” The latest release, eBenefits 4.3, allows for easy navigation of the online disability compensation claim submission process using interview-style questions and drop-down menus similar to tax-preparation software, instead of a traditional fill-in-the-blank form. The latest release also pre-populates the application with information from a Veteran’s record in VA’s secure database. Veterans can view processing times for each phase of their claim. Other site improvements include a tool to help determine if a Veteran has eligibility for Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment benefits, a calculator for military reservists to determine retirement benefits, and a search function that identifies a claimant’s appointed Veterans service representative, with links to Google Maps indicating the location of their nearest representative’s office. Servicemembers and Veterans can also access records like Post-9/11 GI Bill enrollment status, VA payment history, and DoD TRICARE health insurance status. The eBenefits application is a key component of VA’s ongoing transformation to a digital environment for Veterans’ benefits delivery and fully supports VA’s Veterans Relationship Management initiative that provides Veterans with the ability to access information about their benefits anywhere, anytime and empowers them to manage those benefits through self-service capabilities. Additional functionality and features will continue to be added to the site throughout the coming months. To access eBenefits, Veterans and Servicemembers must obtain a DoD Self-Service Logon (DS Logon), which provides access to several Veterans and military benefits resources using a single username and password. The service is free and may be obtained in person at a VA Regional Office, DoD ID Card station or online at www.ebenefits.va.gov. There are currently 2.2 million users with access to eBenefits, and VA is on track to meet the 2013 agency priority goal of 2.5 million users, as outlined for VA on www.Performance.gov. With the most-recent release, eBenefits has successfully completed 13 consecutive quarterly releases since October 2009 with 47 self-service features enabling Servicemembers and Veterans the ability to download copies of their official VA and military correspondence—to include Veterans civil service preference, service verification, and benefits verification letters; military records; and VA home loan certificates of eligibility, just to name a few. For more information about VA benefits go to https://www.benefits.va.gov and eBenefits at www.ebenefits.va.gov. (All content original to the Department of Veterans Affairs: https://www.va.gov/) # # #
01.28.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), will again serve as Ranking Member on the U.S. House of Representatives Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies for the 113th Congress. Congressman Bishop will also remain on the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food & Drug Administration and Related Agencies as well as the Subcommittee on the Legislative Branch. “It is a great honor for me to continue to serve as Ranking Member on the MilCon and Veterans Affairs Subcommittee. As our conflicts in Afghanistan and Iraq wind down, our troop levels are subsequently reduced, and the potential for sequestration looms on the horizon, our Subcommittee will play an important role in these discussions,” said Congressman Bishop. “With nine major military facilities and over 700,000 veterans in Georgia, I remain committed to supporting our nation’s military construction projects and the programs that assist those service members and their families who sacrifice so much for our country.” “I am also eager to continue serving on the Subcommittees on Agriculture and the Legislative Branch. With the vital role of agriculture in Georgia’s economy, I will continue to fight for those who work to produce the highest quality, safest, most abundant and economical food and fiber in the industrial world and the rural communities in which they live and work,” continued Bishop. “Fighting for veterans and rural America is especially necessary in these times of fiscal uncertainty, and I am looking forward to working with the other Members of the Appropriations Committee as we undertake the challenges that we will surely face as we work to get our nation back on track toward fiscal solvency and prosperity.” In addition to his subcommittee assignments, Congressman Bishop will also continue to serve as Co-Chair of the Congressional Military Family Caucus, the Congressional Chicken Caucus, and the Congressional Peanut Caucus along with a number of other caucuses which will address the needs of the people of the second Congressional District of Georgia. To view a picture of Congressman Bishop being sworn in on the floor of the House of Representatives, please click here. ###
01.25.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (D-GA) issued the following statement on Senator Saxby Chambliss’ (R-GA) announcement regarding his decision not to run for re-election to the Senate in 2014. “The announcement caught me by surprise. I will certainly miss working with him on a bipartisan basis on issues affecting Georgia and our nation such as agriculture, national defense, fiscal responsibility, and our economic recovery,” said Congressman Bishop. “Senator Chambliss is a thoughtful and courageous public servant who puts the good of the country before party politics. Having served with him as a colleague in the U.S. House of Representatives, having served as his Congressman, and having shared a warm personal relationship with Saxby and Julianne, Vivian and I respect his decision, extend our best wishes and look forward to working together for Georgians and the country during the remainder of his service.” ###
01.24.2013	ATHENS - January 23, 2013 Applications are currently being accepted for the Rural Business Enterprise Grant (RBEG) for projected 2013 funding of the program. The Rural Development’s RBEG program provides grants for rural projects that finance and facilitate development of small and emerging rural businesses, help fund distance learning networks, and help fund employment related adult education programs. To assist with business development, RBEGs may fund a broad array of activities. The deadline to submit RBEG applications in Georgia has been set for February 22, 2013. The Federal Budget has not been approved and a Notice of Funds Availability has not been issued for this program at this time however, due to the need to be prepared for selecting and obligating projects in anticipation of 2013 funding, applications are now being accepted. In years past, RBEG state allocated funds were due to be obligated by June 30th of the year of application. Rural public entities (towns, communities, State agencies, and authorities), Indian tribes and rural private non-profit corporations are eligible to apply for funding. At least 51 percent of the outstanding interest in any project must have membership or be owned by U.S. citizens or resident aliens. Applicants should contact their Rural Development Area Office to apply. Click here for a list of Georgia Rural Development Offices. President Obama’s plan for rural America has brought about historic investment and resulted in stronger rural communities. Under the President’s leadership, these investments in housing, community facilities, businesses and infrastructure have empowered rural America to continue leading the way – strengthening America’s economy, small towns and rural communities. USDA’s investments in rural communities support the rural way of life that stands as the backbone of our American values. President Obama and Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack are committed to a smarter use of Federal resources to foster sustainable economic prosperity and ensure the government is a strong partner for businesses, entrepreneurs and working families in rural communities. USDA, through its Rural Development mission area, has an active portfolio of more than $176 billion in loans and loan guarantees. These programs are designed to improve the economic stability of rural communities, businesses, residents, farmers and ranchers and improve the quality of life in rural America. (All content original to USDA: https://www.usda.gov/)
01.23.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) issued the following statement regarding the passage of H.R. 325, the No Budget, No Pay Act. The bill suspends the debt limit and prohibits congressional pay unless Congress approves a budget. H.R. 325 passed 285 to 144; Congressman Bishop voted in favor of passage. “The Constitution gives Congress responsibility over the nation’s purse strings, and I believe the American people expect Congress to uphold their full faith and credit to pay our bills,” said Congressman Bishop. “I also believe that Congress should carry out its budgetary duties or forfeit its pay.” H.R. 325 suspends the current $16.4 trillion statutory limit on federal borrowing through May 18, allowing the government to borrow whatever it needs to fully finance its operations and prevent a default. A new statutory debt limit would automatically be re-established. If the debt limit was reached, the resulting default would threaten our government’s credit rating as well as put at risk the timely payment of social security checks, veterans’ benefits, and military salaries. Additionally, H.R. 325 requires that congressional pay for Members of Congress be withheld beginning April 16 if that chamber fails to adopt a budget resolution by that time. Members of Congress will have their pay put placed in an escrow account until that chamber adopts a budget or until the last day of the 113th Congress in January 2015. ###
01.22.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement to commemorate the upcoming inauguration of the 44th President of the United States of America, President Barack Obama on Monday, January 21, 2013. “Four years ago, we proved to the world that in the United States any child—black or white, girl or boy, rich or poor—can dream of becoming President of our great nation. Today, we are reminded still that no hope is unfounded. The echoes of President Lincoln’s words at Gettysburg still ring true—our government is still, “of the people, by the people, for the people.” These words we should never forget. “Truly, the Presidential Inauguration is a celebration of what makes America great. It is a celebration of the American spirit that unifies a vast country and a diverse group of people, despite our distinct differences. “As a Member of Congress, I realize that our nation has some challenging times ahead. Many Americans are still without jobs, measures must be taken to put our fiscal house in order, and difficult decisions lie ahead. Here in Washington, we must put aside partisanship and focus on solutions that move our nation forward. Truly, it is only by working together that we will bring about necessary and effective change. “It will not be easy, but together we will prevail through these tough times. I know that in the United States of America, no challenge is too difficult—for as a united people, we shall overcome. “The Presidential Inauguration on January 21, 2013 is not just a celebration for President Barack Obama. It is a celebration for our nation and every American. It is a celebration of hope for a more prosperous and a more peaceful world.” ###
01.20.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement today to commemorate the upcoming Martin Luther King, Jr. holiday on Monday, January 21, 2013. Martin Luther King, Jr. Day is a federal holiday observed on the third Monday of January each year to mark the birthday of Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. “As we celebrate the life of a gifted, courageous, and inspiring leader, we remember that the vision of brotherhood and non-violence that guided the movement Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. led became the driving force behind revolutionary non-violent political and social change in our country. “The legacy he left behind was not just the progress that has been made in fulfilling the country’s great promise—but the standard of morality that he firmly established in social and political activism that continues to guide us today. It was not only a moral imperative, but, by inspiring countless millions, it also proved to be the most effective strategy for success. “Throughout his years in the public eye, Dr. King challenged every American to stand up for the things that are good and great about our country-- to be ready, always, to defend her against those who would trample on the bedrock principles of freedom and justice for all, whether threatened from abroad or at home. “For Dr. King, and all of us who follow in his footsteps, the ‘dream’ is anything but an empty fantasy. It is an on-going call to action. It is a renewal of our commitment to stand up for the cause of freedom that is the heritage of each and every one of us as American citizens and children of God. “Certainly, according to his own words, ‘We must learn to live together as brothers, or perish together as fools.’ “As we celebrate Martin Luther King, Jr., let us stand together for strength and brotherhood and unity within our great country. Let us rededicate ourselves to the good and great things the country stands for—and let us pray for a more peaceful, compassionate, and loving world for ourselves and all humankind.” ###
01.18.2013	COLUMBUS, GA – Today, the United States Army released a final Programmatic Environmental Assessment (PEA) Army 2020 Force Structure Realignment, which reviews and analyzes the impact of an anticipated force-wide restructuring plan. The Army has completed this analysis in an effort to ensure that vital national defense capabilities are maintained in a climate of budgetary constraints as U.S. missions in Iraq and Afghanistan are coming to an end. Consequently, the Army is beginning a process to reduce their total active end-strength from 562,000 to 490,000 by 2020 as part of the military’s overall budget reduction. As part of this drawdown, plans are being laid to deactivate eight Army Brigade Combat Teams. The Army has announced two of the deactivated brigades will come from units stationed in Europe, while the remaining six will come from twenty-one U.S. installations home to Brigade Combat Teams, possibly including Fort Benning, Georgia Domestic sites being considered for force reduction also include: Fort Bliss, TX; Fort Bragg, NC; Fort Campbell, KY; Fort Carson, CO; Fort Drum, NY; Fort Gordon, GA; Fort Hood, TX; Fort Irwin, CA; Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson, AK; Joint Base Langley-Eustis, VA; Joint Base Lewis-McChord, WA; Fort Knox, KY; Fort Lee, VA; Fort Leonard Wood, MO; Fort Polk, LA; Fort Riley, KS; Fort Sill, OK; Fort Stewart, GA; U.S. Army Garrison Hawaii; and U.S. Army Garrison Fort Wainwright, AK. In making a final determination, the Army will consider environmental issues; socioeconomic impact (reduced employment, income, regional population, and sales); as well as operational (military value); cost, strategy and geographic distribution; investment and regeneration; and soldier and family quality of life. “It cannot be understated how important Fort Benning, its service members, and support staff are to the community and economy of the greater Columbus region,” said Congressman Bishop. “Given the potential impact of the PEA on Fort Benning and the surrounding area, I would urge anyone concerned about the potential loss of a brigade to submit a public comment. It is vital that the details of the PEA are accurate, and we must continue to do all that we can to support our soldiers.” In order to view the entire Environmental Impact Statement, please click here. In order to view the Environmental Impact Statement sections that reference Fort Benning, please click here. The thirty-day public comment period began on Friday, January 18, 2013. Comments can be submitted to USARMY.JBSA.AEC.MBX@mail.mil or written comments can be sent to: USAEC Attn: IMPA-AE (Army 2020 PEA) 2450 Connell Road (Bldg 2264) Fort Sam Houston, Texas 78234-7664 ###
01.15.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement commending the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) on launching a new microloan program aimed at assisting small and beginning farmers, veterans, and disadvantaged producers secure loans up to $35,000. Congressman Bishop is an enthusiastic supporter of the USDA’s microloan initiatives, and so in his capacity as a member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies, he has advocated for the new loan program. “The USDA’s new microloan program is an excellent, much-needed initiative to assist farmers and rural communities in Southwest Georgia,” said Congressman Bishop. “Through programs like this, the USDA has built upon its commitment to helping farmers and producers succeed. It is essential that we invest in new generations of farmers who will maintain our nation’s food supply and bolster our economy for the future.” The new microloan program is administered through USDA’s Farm Service Agency (FSA) Operating Loan Program and provides a simple and flexible loan process for new farmers, returning veterans, and disadvantaged producers and ranchers. Without access to startup loans or grants, the same groups often depend on credit cards or personal loans which can have high interest rates and inflexible payment schedules. Through the new microloan program, applicants can apply for a maximum of $35,000 to finance initial start-up expenses as well as annual expenses. For more information on USDA’s new microloan program, please click here. Producers interested in applying for a microloan may contact their local Farm Service Agency office. ###
01.14.2013	ALBANY, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released a statement regarding the passing of Gary Yochum Sr., long-time Sheriff of Randolph County. “Sheriff Yochum and I shared a great working relationship over the years, and so I know that his sincere dedication and service to the people of Randolph County as the chief law enforcement officer will be greatly missed and long remembered,” said Congressman Bishop. “My heartfelt thoughts and prayers go out to former Sheriff Gary Yochum’s wife, his two sons, the Randolph County Sheriff’s Department, and greater Randolph County community during this period of loss.” Taking the office in 2001, Sheriff Gary Yochum Sr. had just begun his fourth term. Funeral services will be held on Tuesday, January 15, 2013 at 2:00 p.m. at First Baptist Church in Cuthbert. ###
01.11.2013	ALBANY, GA – Yesterday, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) joined National President of the Ladies Auxiliary to the Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW) Leanne Lemley; Georgia President of the Ladies Auxiliary to the VFW Mickie Rogers; Georgia State Commander of the VFW Rusty Rogers; VFW Post 2785 Commander Paul Murray; VFW Department of Georgia National Council Member Dean Smith; and Commander of the Albany Marine Corps Logistics Base Colonel Don Davis at the Ladies Auxiliary to the Veterans of Foreign Wars banquet in Albany. The banquet was held in honor of Ladies Auxiliary VFW President Leanne Lemley. “Beyond their commitment to our veterans, service members, and wounded warriors, I find myself continually amazed at the charitable works organized by the Ladies Auxiliary here in Georgia,” said Congressman Bishop. “Whether they reward our youth for excellence in academics through their scholarship program, or organize volunteers at VA Medical Hospitals and clinics such as the one right here in Albany, or support cancer research, the Ladies Auxiliary VFW continues to benefit our communities in many ways.” For almost 100 years, the Ladies Auxiliary has served our nation’s service members with pride and distinction. Mrs. Lemley, of West Point, Iowa, is the 2012-2013 National President of the Ladies Auxiliary VFW, leading the organization under the theme, “Serving from the Heart for Veterans.” She has been involved with the Auxiliary for more than 40 years since joining on the eligibility of her father who served in the U.S. Navy Seabees during World War II. She has a brother who is a VFW Life Member with Vietnam eligibility, a son and stepson as VFW members with Iraq eligibility, as well as two daughter-in-laws and two granddaughters involved in the Ladies Auxiliary. To view a picture of the banquet, please click here. ###
01.10.2013	Public encouraged to comment on new proposals. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has proposed two new food safety rules that will help prevent foodborne illness. The proposed rules implement the landmark, bipartisan FDA Food Safety Modernization Act (FSMA) and are available for public comment for the next 120 days. FDA encourages Americans to review and comment on these important proposed rules. The proposed rules build on significant strides made during the Obama Administration, including the first egg safety rule protecting consumers from Salmonella and stepped up testing for E. coli in beef as well as existing voluntary industry guidelines for food safety, which many producers, growers and others currently follow. The rules follow extensive outreach by FDA to the produce industry, the consumer community, other government agencies and the international community. Since January 2011, FDA staff have toured farms and facilities nationwide and participated in hundreds of meetings and presentations with global regulatory partners, industry stakeholders, consumer groups, farmers, state and local officials, and the research community. These two FSMA rules are part of an integrated reform effort that focuses on prevention and addresses the safety of foods produced domestically and imported, with additional rules to be published shortly. The first rule proposed would require makers of food to be sold in the United States, whether produced at a foreign- or domestic-based facility, to develop a formal plan for preventing their food products from causing foodborne illness. The rule would also require them to have plans for correcting any problems that arise. FDA seeks public comment on this proposal. FDA also seeks public comment on the second proposed rule released, which proposes enforceable safety standards for the production and harvesting of produce on farms. This rule proposes science- and risk-based standards for the safe production and harvesting of fruits and vegetables. To view the full FDA News Release, please go to: https://www.fda.gov. To view the full Federal Register pre-publication document for the proposed rule entitled, "Current Good Manufacturing Practice and Hazard Analysis and Risk-Based Preventive Controls for Human Food," please go to: https://www.ofr.gov. To view the full Federal Register pre-publication document for the proposed rule entitled, "Standards for Growing, Harvesting, Packing, and Holding of Produce for Human Consumption," please go to: https://www.ofr.gov. To view the full Federal Register pre-publication document for the "Draft Qualitative Risk Assessment of Risk of Activity/Food Combinations for Activities (Outside the Farm Definition) Conducted in a Facility Co-Located on a Farm," which accompanies the proposed preventive controls for human food rule, please go to: https://www.ofr.gov. To view fact sheets and other materials associated with the two proposed rules, please go to: https://www.fda.gov/. For instructions on how to comment on proposed regulations, please go to:https://www.fda.gov. (All content original to FDA: https://www.fda.gov/)
01.02.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) issued the following statement regarding last night’s passage of the Senate Amendments to HR 8, the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012. The resolution passed 257 to 187; Congressman Bishop voted in favor of passage. “While this legislation isn’t perfect, in any compromise neither side gets everything that it wants,” said Congressman Bishop. “Frankly, I would have preferred a “grand bargain” reducing the deficit, averting the sequester, and strengthening our economy over the long-term but last night’s agreement is an important first step toward putting our fiscal house in order.” Continued Bishop, “The bill prevents taxes from going up on 98% of American families including the middle class and the poor; it continues unemployment benefits for over 2 million people who are out of work through no fault of their own and are actively searching for a job; it extends tax credits for 25 million working families and students; it prevents a 27% cut in fees for doctors who treat Medicare patients originally scheduled to take effect January 1st; and it provides some predictability going into the 2013 planting season for Georgia farmers by extending the farm bill for nine months.” “In the upcoming weeks, Congress will have to come together on the debt ceiling, government spending, sequestration, tax reform, as well as controlling the growth in entitlements,” concluded Bishop. “Now, more than ever, it is vital that Congress puts our country ahead of partisanship and discharges its responsibilities to solve these urgent issues. The American people deserve no less.” For a summary and additional information on Senate Amendments to HR 8, please click here. ###
01.02.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) joined Congressman John Barrow (GA-12) and other colleagues in urging the House Leadership to oppose the pay increase for Members of Congress, as dictated by an Executive Order from the President of the United States on December 27, 2012. “I feel it is premature for Congress to have the luxury of a scheduled pay increase while the nation stands on the edge of the fiscal cliff,” said Congressman Bishop. “Instead, Congress should continue to work to lower tax rates on working Americans, reduce federal spending, and rein in our nation’s debt.” “We believe that it is inappropriate for Members of Congress to receive a pay increase of any size while American families and taxpayers continue to face tough economic times,” the letter states. “We urge you to bring legislation to the floor to stop this pay adjustment as soon as possible.” The Executive Order lifted the ban on pay freezes for federal employees, resulting in a 0.5 to 1.1 pay increase. To view the text of the Executive Order, please click here. ###
12.17.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement regarding the passing of the Senator Daniel K. Inouye: “Senator Inouye served his nation with distinction, first as a World War II Medal of Honor recipient and then for almost half a century as the U.S. Senator from the State of Hawaii. As Chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee and its Subcommittee on Defense, he was a fighter for the men and women of our military and their families. He committed the first $10 million for the construction of the National Infantry Museum at Fort Benning, Georgia—a magnificent memorial to the Infantry Soldier of America’s wars. Senator Inouye was a zealous defender of the powers of Congress under the Constitution against any infringement by the Executive Branch. His powerful legacy of service and leadership in the Senate will be greatly missed.” ###
12.13.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), an original member of the fiscally-conservative Blue Dog Democrats coalition, was proud to announce the passage of his co-sponsored bill H.R. 4053, the Improper Payments Elimination and Recovery Improvement Act (IPERIA). Passed in a bipartisan vote of 402 to 0, the Blue Dog endorsed bill will better identify, prevent, and recover payment error, waste, fraud, and abuse within federal spending. “Managing our national debt and bringing our nation back to a balanced budget are the most important issues we face in Congress today,” said Congressman Bishop. “It is imperative that both sides do the right thing for America by improving the economy of tomorrow through controlling the spending of today. I am proud to stand with the Blue Dog Coalition on this legislation as it is a great step towards working together to find progress for the future.” “This is one of many commonsense, good government steps we can take in Congress to get our debt and deficits under control,” said Congressman Kurt Schrader (OR-05), Chair of the Blue Dog Task Force on Fiscal Responsibility. “I have been working on this bill for a long time and am pleased to see it pass with such strong bipartisan support. We, as a body, need to continue to hammer away at those that are defrauding taxpayers, and we must continue to strengthen our recovery and get our economy humming again.” Among many other measures, H.R. 4053 will help federal agencies cut down on wasteful spending by creating a government-wide Do Not Pay List to prevent improper payments, identify a list of high-priority federal programs for greater levels of oversight, and block payments to deceased recipients. H.R. 4053 builds on a similar improper payments law passed last year, the Improper Payments Elimination and Recovery Act of 2010, which was part of the Blue Dogs’ Blueprint for Fiscal Reform – a 15-point plan to balance the budget and lay the groundwork for sound fiscal policies over the long term. ###
12.12.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. —Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) joined a bipartisan group of his colleagues in urging House Leadership to reauthorize the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) before the end of the 112th Congress. “We write today asking you to move quickly on the reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) by bringing a bill inclusive of protections for all victims of domestic violence, similar to that which has already passed the Senate, to the House floor for a vote during these final weeks of the 112th Congress,” the letter states. “The Violence Against Women Act is crucial for the victims of domestic violence and those agencies and organizations who serve them. We must send the President a strong, bipartisan bill that protects all those vulnerable to domestic violence.” The Violence Against Women Act was passed in 1994 and has since been a successful tool in combating domestic violence. However, authorization for the programs under VAWA has expired. The Senate and the House have each passed two substantially different reauthorization acts. A strong bipartisan bill is needed to ensure that women, children, and families all across the United States are protected from domestic violence. Please click here to view the full text of the letter. ### The letter is as follows: November 11, 2012 The Honorable John A. Boehner The Honorable Eric Cantor Speaker Majority Leader U.S. House of Representatives U.S. House of Representatives H-232, The Capitol H-329, The Capitol Washington, DC 20515 Washington, DC 20515 The Honorable Nancy Pelosi The Honorable Steny Hoyer Democratic Leader Democratic Whip U.S. House of Representatives U.S. House of Representatives H-204, The Capitol H-148, The Capitol Washington, DC 20515 Washington, DC 20515 Dear Speaker Boehner, Democratic Leader Pelosi, Majority Leader Cantor and Democratic Whip Hoyer: We write today asking you to move quickly on the reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) by bringing a bill inclusive of protections for all victims of domestic violence, similar to that which has already passed the Senate, to the House floor for a vote during these final weeks of the 112th Congress. The Violence Against Women Act is crucial for the victims of domestic violence and those agencies and organizations who serve them. We must send the President a strong, bipartisan bill that protects all those vulnerable to domestic violence. At the time that VAWA was first passed into law, a woman was raped every six seconds in the United States and a female was beaten every 15 seconds. Since its enactment, cases of domestic violence have fallen by sixty-seven percent. Over one million women have used the justice system to obtain protective orders against their batterers. VAWA has averted more than $14 billion dollars in societal costs as interventions have lowered domestic violence frequency and sexual assault rates. The law has also succeeded in bringing communities together to address domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking. The Violence Against Women Act has without question been successful. It has saved lives and helped millions of victims find safety, security and self-sufficiency. But even with all of the advancements that have been made, three women a day in this country are still killed by an intimate partner. Obviously there is much more work to be done. Each time that VAWA has come up for reauthorization, bipartisan cooperation has swiftly moved it forward so that even more protections for victims of domestic violence become available and accessible. This must be the case again. We strongly urge you to move past politics and send a VAWA reauthorization bill to the President that he can sign immediately. Sincerely, SIGNATORIES Member of Congress
12.07.2012	CLIMAX, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) expressed his concern about the decision of the United States Postal Service to close the main Post Office in Climax, Georgia. "As a community center, a local employer, and a convenience to those who will have difficulty traveling a greater distance for their mail and money orders, rural post offices serve an important role with much of southwest Georgia’s population," says Congressman Bishop. "Though I am aware of the financial challenges that the USPS is currently facing, I am appalled by the lack of notification my office and local postal patrons have received about the closure of many rural post offices throughout our district." The United States Postal Service (USPS) has recently been facing financial challenges and post office closures. The USPS’s lease had expired on the Climax Post Office and the USPS decided not to renew the Climax lease. This closure will have a large negative impact on Climax and the surrounding communities. Please click here for a copy of the letter Congressman Bishop has sent to Postmaster General Patrick Donahoe regarding the closure of the Climax Georgia Post Office. ###
12.04.2012	ALBANY, GA – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement today announcing the awarding of a new $10,000 grant from the National Endowment of the Arts to bolster the arts in underserved populations. Over 150 organizations across the country received a combined total of $1.5 million in grants through the Challenge America Fast-Track program. “I am very grateful for the Challenge America Fast-Track grants and the positive impact they will have on the arts in Southwest Georgia,” said Congressman Bishop. “I commend the National Endowment of the Arts for joining Albany State College in their mission of bringing the arts closer to home, encouraging creativity with our students, and enriching our community in the process.” “I’m absolutely thrilled at the news that ASU has received the NEA fast track grant again this year,” said Dr. Leroy Bynum, Jr., Dean of ASU’s College of Arts and Humanities. “By honoring us again with the award, the National Endowment for the Arts supports and validates ASU’s commitment to be the citadel for cultural enhancement and outreach for all of Southwest Georgia.” The National Endowment for the Arts’ Challenge America Fast-Track grant program offers support primarily to small and mid-sized organizations for projects that extend the reach of the arts to underserved populations; those whose opportunities to experience the arts are limited by geography, ethnicity, economics, or disability. Fast-Track grants are only available to programs focusing on engagement with the community and strengthening the arts within the community. Albany State University was awarded the grant to bring world-renown pianist Awadagin Pratt to the school for a campus lecture, master class, and recital. ###
11.21.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) issued the following statement for the upcoming Thanksgiving holiday on Thursday, November 22, 2012. “For many, family and friends gather on Thanksgiving for good food and warm memories. Unfortunately, not all of us have the opportunity to celebrate with loved ones or over a cooked meal,” said Congressman Bishop. “As we gather and give thanks to God for all of His blessings, please remember to reflect on who we are as Americans. Whether you send a prayer to our brave service members far from home, or send a donation to the local food bank down the street, you honor the bravery and charity rooted at the core of our nation. Personally, I am thankful for all of you, and wish everyone a wonderful Thanksgiving this year.” ###
11.19.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – As co-chairs of the Congressional Chicken Caucus, Congressman Sanford Bishop (D-GA) and Congressman Rick Crawford (R-AR) expressed their concern with the Environmental Protection Agency’s recent decision to not waive its’ mandate on the use of corn for ethanol production, ignoring the needs of family farmers and poultry producers. Affected negatively by drought conditions, corn production has decreased, which has driven up the cost of feed grain. “With the price of feed continually rising and the economy in the state that it is, I am disappointed that the Environmental Protection Agency would not use its’ ability to waive the corn ethanol mandate to provide relief for our agricultural industries,” said Congressman Bishop. “The EPA continues to be the source of the challenges many Georgia farmers and producers face on a day to day basis. A temporary waiver of the corn ethanol mandate would have represented a balance between the needs of rural America and our responsibility to protect our sacred environment. Going forward, I will continue to work with both sides to find compromise, and encourage the Environmental Protection Agency to join in the discussion.” “Record drought conditions and rising feed costs have put a huge burden on producers in my district and across the country this year. It’s a shame that the Environmental Protection Agency would not waive the corn ethanol mandate that could give farm families some relief,” said Crawford. “No government agency represents a bigger burden for farm families than the EPA. It’s time for Washington bureaucrats to hear the concerns of the agriculture community and grant a waiver for the corn ethanol mandate.” ###
11.15.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Co-Chair of the Congressional Military Family Caucus, joined Department of Defense leadership, corporate and business leaders, and military spouses at the Department of Defense’s Military Spouse Employment Partnership new partner induction ceremony in Washington, D.C. “As we all know, the current economic environment has left millions of Americans, including many of our nation’s veterans, returning service members, and their spouses out of work,” said Congressman Bishop. “The Military Spouse Employment Partnership is an excellent example of how we can bring together the public and private sectors in an essential way to support the employment of the spouses and families of our nation’s heroes. I am grateful to the new and current partners for taking the initiative to join in this partnership and look forward to the MSEP continuing to tackle this crucial issue.” The Military Spouse Employment Partnership was launched in 2011 by the Department of Defense in an effort to address employment challenges faced by military spouses. To date, more than 27,000 military spouses have been hired by MSEP’s 129 partners. Yesterday, thirty new partners were inducted, including Georgia-based companies Mail Centers Plus, AloriCares, and Coca Cola. For a picture of Congressman Bishop speaking at the MSEP induction ceremony, please click here. ###
11.14.2012	COLUMBUS, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement regarding the passing of the Reverend Dr. Johnny H. Flakes, Jr: “I have been truly blessed by Dr. Flakes’ spiritual counsel and guidance throughout the twenty-four years I was a member of Fourth Street Missionary Baptist Church. His courage, perseverance, and dedication to his church will always be a source of inspiration to me,” said Congressman Bishop. “Dr. Flakes was an outstanding man of God who, through his deep and abiding faith, made a tremendous impact on his community. He will truly be missed but it is a comfort to know that his unwavering spirit will live on through the many whose lives were touched and inspired by this remarkable man. My thoughts and prayers go out to Dr. Flakes’ family and loved ones during this difficult time.” Dr. Flakes was the Pastor of Fourth Street Missionary Baptist Church in Columbus, Georgia for fifty-one years and Good Hope Missionary Baptist Church in Phenix City, Alabama for fifty-three years. In addition to his numerous awards and recognitions, Dr. Flakes was recently awarded the Whitney M. Young Service Award by the Boy Scouts of America Chattahoochee Council for his support of youths in the community. Dr. Flakes passed away on Monday, November 12, 2012. Funeral services will be held for Reverend Dr. Johnny H. Flakes, Jr. on Friday, November 16, 2012. ###
11.12.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released a statement regarding honoring our nation's veterans on Veterans Day. “This Veterans Day, Americans come together to remember those who have served our nation around the world in the name of freedom and democracy. The debt that we owe to our brave service members cannot be measured. Their sacrifices and those of their families are freedom’s foundation. Without the efforts of all the soldiers, airmen, sailors, marines, Coast Guardsmen, and their families, our country would not live so freely. Today, millions of Americans are indebted to those veterans who have made great sacrifices in preserving our democracy, protecting our freedoms, and defending our liberties. In response, we, as a nation, have a responsibility to pay tribute to our nation’s veterans and preserve the memory of their patriotism by ensuring that they are provided with the resources they need to obtain suitable and sustainable employment. Unfortunately, as we all know, the current economic environment has left millions of Americans out of work and has made it exceptionally difficult for veterans to find jobs. Additionally, sequestration looms as a great danger to our nation’s veterans and their families. As Congress reconvenes in November, it is my belief that there is a renewed sense of urgency to put aside political gamesmanship and come to a bi-partisan agreement for sequestration before the end of the year. On the battlefield, the military pledges to leave no soldier behind. As a nation, let it be our pledge that when they return home, we leave no veteran behind. This day and every day, let us honor their service with actions that fulfill our commitment to our troops, their families, and our veterans – and that are worthy of our grateful nation." ###
10.29.2012	ALBANY, GA – Yesterday, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02 joined Joel Wernick, CEO of Phoebe Putney, Dorothy Hubbard, Mayor of Albany, the Albany Chamber of Commerce, the Dougherty County Commission, the Albany City Commission, as well as management and staff of Phoebe Putney at the ribbon cutting for Phoebe Putney’s new digestive health center in Albany Georgia. “I am convinced that some of the smartest, brightest, most hard working people in the world live and work right here in southwest Georgia,” said Bishop. “In addition to your legacy of providing excellent care for Georgians, thank you Phoebe Putney for opening your new center in Albany, providing the opportunity for even more skilled labor jobs to be based right here in southwest Georgia.” “Phoebe is focused on meeting the healthcare needs of the citizens we serve, regardless of the complexity,” said Joel Wernick, CEO of Phoebe Putney Health System. “This center is a major step in strengthening our physicians’ and providers’ ability to improve digestive health for all southwest Georgians.” Now that the new digestive health center is open, Albany residents will have improved access to gastroenterologists as well as to high definition endoscopes and high-resolution monitors, a necessity for many residents in Southwest Georgia. Appointment times will be reduced from four months to under two weeks. In addition, the Center will provide on-site consultations with a dietitian as well as with mid-level practitioners who can help navigate care for patients with complex diseases. Phoebe Putney’s new digestive health center at Two Meredyth Place in Albany Georgia employs over 100 individuals, including 30 new clinical and support staff positions. For a picture of Congressman Bishop at the ribbon cutting, please click here. ###
10.26.2012	BAINBRIDGE, GA – Yesterday, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) joined S. Blake Lindsey, CEO and President of Meredian, State Representative Jay Powell, Mayor Ed Reynolds, USDA Representative Donnie Thomas, County Commissioner Dr. Charles Stafford, Meredian management, staff, investors, and customers at a grand opening ceremony and tour of the Meredian PHA Pilot Plant in Bainbridge, Georgia. “It is a great day for Bainbridge and Southwest Georgia!” said Congressman Bishop. “A city with a history of supporting new initiatives and bold ideas, Bainbridge has once again supported the growth of capital in Southwest Georgia. Meredian is one of the shining lights in our community, and it is success stories like this in Bainbridge that will propel our nation forward and strengthen our economy for the future.” Polyhydroxyalkanoate (PHA) is a highly functional bioplastic made from renewable and natural resources. Meredian’s new plant is the largest bioplastics facility in the world, featuring 190,000 square feet of manufacturing space with expected production rates exceeding 300,000 tons per year and an estimated 150% growth in jobs over the next 24 months. With $32 million in community investment to date, Congressman Bishop’s office assisted Meredian in getting loan support from the U.S. Department of Agriculture. For a picture of yesterday’s event, please click here. ###
10.22.2012	MACON, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) joined the Graphic Packaging International staff and management on a tour of their mill in Macon, Georgia. “I thoroughly enjoyed touring the site of this very important local employer,” said Congressman Bishop. “Graphic Packaging International has effectively demonstrated that it is possible to both protect the environment and create jobs. It is truly a model for the nation.” “We really appreciated having Congressman Bishop at Graphic Packaging today,” commented Resident Mill Manager, Steve Hanson. “Not only did Congressman Bishop spend quality time with the Graphic Packaging team, he was also able to see first-hand the impact potential legislation could have on our business.” Graphic Packaging International (GPI) is a leading maker of laminated, coated, and printed packaging such as beverage carriers, cereal boxes, microwavable food packaging, and detergent cartons. In 2011, the Macon-Bibb County Industrial Authority agreed to issue revenue bonds for a $140 million expansion at Graphic Packaging International, including installation of a biomass boiler and 40-megawatt turbine generator at its Macon mill. The new biomass system, which is expected to be in operation by as early as mid-2013, would generate power from about 400,000 tons of logging residuals. The project is expected to create 10 to 20 additional jobs at the mill, along with the construction jobs created by the project. In 2010, the company employed over 520 salaried and hourly employees. To view pictures of today’s tour, please click here. ###
10.19.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. —Today the senior Democratic appropriators for the Departments of Health and Human Services (HHS) and Veterans Affairs (VA), Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro (D-CT) and Congressman Sanford Bishop (D-GA), sent a letter to HHS Secretary Kathleen Sebelius and VA Secretary Eric Shinseki urging them to protect seniors, veterans and other patients by ensuring the safety of compounded medications. “As the investigation of the tragic outbreak of fungal meningitis associated with products from the New England Compounding Center (NECC) continues, it is imperative that we act to protect patient safety,” the appropriators write. “This should include for seniors, veterans, and others that participate in the federal programs under Medicare, Medicaid, and the Veterans Health Administration. This is particularly critical as it has been revealed that Veterans Affairs Medical Centers have purchased products from both NECC and the related company Ameridose. Over 250 American patients have become ill including 20 that have died because of contaminated medical products from this one compounding facility. This type of outbreak should be preventable, and we would hope that private insurance companies will take similar steps to protect their patients.” Details on the recall may be found here and information on the fungal meningitis outbreak may be found here. ### The letter is as follows: October 19, 2012 The Honorable Kathleen Sebelius The Honorable Eric Shinseki Secretary Secretary Department of Health and Human Services Department of Veterans Affairs 200 Independence Avenue, S.W. 810 Vermont Avenue, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20202 Washington, D.C. 20420 Dear Secretary Sebelius and Secretary Shinseki, We write today to encourage you to ensure the safety of compounded medications used by patients enrolled in health plans run by the Federal government including Medicare and Medicaid, as well as veterans receiving care through the Veterans Health Administration. As the investigation of the tragic outbreak of fungal meningitis associated with products from the New England Compounding Center (NECC) continues, it is imperative that we act to protect patient safety. This should include for seniors, veterans, and others that participate in the federal programs under Medicare, Medicaid, and the Veterans Health Administration. This is particularly critical as it has been revealed that Veterans Affairs Medical Centers have purchased products from both NECC and the related company Ameridose. Over 250 American patients have become ill including 20 that have died because of contaminated medical products from this one compounding facility. This type of outbreak should be preventable, and we would hope that private insurance companies will take similar steps to protect their patients. We believe part of our response should include additional authority for and improved communication between federal and state regulators to ensure unequivocal oversight of compounded products and manufacturers that masquerade as pharmacies. Patients expect their medications and products used in the health care setting to be safe, effective, and overseen by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Yet, we must not risk patient care as Congress considers how to best work to prevent illnesses from contaminated compounded products in the future. In the immediate term we must strengthen guidance to industry, health care providers, and consumer information to patients in order to further assure the safety of compounded medications. This should include requiring that any compounding pharmacy used by the aforementioned programs meets minimum standards like those described by the United States Pharmacopeial Convention and used by the Pharmacy Compounding Accreditation Board. This is especially important for sterile injectable medications such as those involved in the ongoing outbreak. And, this should be done expeditiously using your existing authority including, if necessary, rulemaking. In addition, to better ensure the safe production of these medications, we also urge you to require that these compounded products be clearly labeled as such and that patients receive information on the differences between compounded and FDA-approved products. Finally, we recommend that you ensure strong auditing of this requirement to verify its effective implementation. Such short term actions should not be the final resolution or an excuse for Congress to abdicate its responsibility to strengthen protections for the American public. They are, however, critical efforts to help ensure patient safety as Congress considers the appropriate legislative response to any shortcomings identified by the investigation. Thank you for your continued work to ensure that Americans have access to affordable, safe medications. Sincerely, ROSA L. DeLAURO Member of Congress SANFORD D. BISHOP, JR. Member of Congress
10.18.2012	ALBANY, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) joined community officials, Phoebe Putney Memorial Hospital administration, SOWEGA Council on Aging staff, and SOWEGA Council on Aging Executive Director Kay Hind at the groundbreaking at the site of their future senior center and life enrichment center. “The new Senior Center/Life Enrichment Center will be a crowning achievement for SOWEGA Council of Aging, a boon to our community here in Albany, and the fulfillment of a long-held dream for such a dedicated advocate for seniors, Ms. Kay Hind,” said Congressman Bishop. “Our community’s senior citizens will soon have a reliable and accessible place to socialize, exercise their bodies and minds, and feel right at home.” “I am so very grateful for Congressman Bishop’s support of our new senior center,” said Kay Hind. “Every project needs a spark to start from, and Congressman Bishop’s assistance securing the grants and appropriations to boost the funding was the start that we needed. I am oh so happy that the Congressman has been with us all these years.” Through the appropriations process, Congressman Bishop secured over $835,000 for the downtown project. The Life Enrichment Center will feature a fitness facility, a commercial kitchen and large dining room, activity rooms for senior citizens, computer lab, office space, and an expansive multipurpose room among other amenities. The SOWEGA Council on Aging is a nonprofit, 501(c)(3) organization that currently provides over 20 programs and services to seniors, ago 60+, throughout Southwest Georgia. Already, SOWEGA Council on Aging provides indispensable services for thousands of seniors—including meals, home health care, transportation, shopping and homemaking services, legal services, tax assistance, and volunteer services. Incorporated in 1966, SOWEGA Council of Aging serves fourteen counties in the Southwest Georgia area. Photo attached. To view more photos from the groundbreaking, please click here. ###
10.15.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released a statement regarding the passing of Arlen Specter, former Senator of Pennsylvania. “Arlen Specter will always be remembered, not only by the impact he left with the people of Pennsylvania and on the political landscape of our country, but for the pragmatic independence he consistently brought to the table here in Congress,” said Congressman Bishop. “My thoughts and prayers go out to former Senator Arlen Specter’s family and loved ones during this period of loss.” Serving Pennsylvania as a Senator from 1981 to 2011, Arlen Specter passed away on Sunday, October 14, 2012. ###
10.10.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies, welcomed notification of the U.S. Department of Commerce’s preliminary decision to terminate an antidumping investigation that has hurt U.S. tomato growers. In a July 2012 letter to Acting Secretary of the U.S. Department of Commerce Rebecca Blank, Congressman Bishop stood in support of Georgia’s tomato industry concerning unfair Mexican trade practices. He called for the withdrawal of an antidumping petition and termination of a Suspension Agreement that had hampered the fair trade of fresh tomatoes between the U.S. and Mexico. "I applaud the U.S. Department of Commerce’s preliminary decision to level the playing field between U.S tomato growers and the Mexican market for our produce,” said Congressman Bishop. “Though the process is not yet over, I look forward to the potential of free and fair trade conditions being restored within the tomato industry. Normality will improve the confidence of the agriculture sector in Georgia, which will in turn bolster the nation’s economy.” In 1996, an antidumping petition requesting relief from unfairly traded imports of fresh tomatoes from Mexico was filed by tomato producers from across the nation. After examining the facts, the United States government determined that there was reason to believe the subject tomatoes were being sold in this country at less than fair value at margins as high as 188 percent. U.S. tomato farmers are still recovering from the 2008 tomato salmonella recall as consumers quit buying tomatoes on the recommendation of the Food and Drug Administration and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. In Georgia alone, tomato growers lost over $14 million from tomatoes grown but not sold; growers nationwide lost more than $125 million. The recent announcement from the U.S. Department of Commerce heralds its preliminary decision to terminate the antidumping investigation, which if final, will result in the termination of the suspension agreement and termination of the sixteen year old investigation. By terminating the existing agreement, U.S. tomato growers will gain the legal right to have examined whether Mexican growers are continuing to hamper fair market competition by using predatory actions. If so, such actions can at last be stopped, and Georgia growers of all size will be unburdened by the flood of unfairly priced tomatoes on the market. To read the letter to Acting Secretary Rebecca Blank, please click here. To read the U.S. Department of Commerce’s preliminary decision memo, please click here. ###
10.10.2012	ALBANY, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) sent a letter to U.S. Postmaster General Patrick R. Donahoe expressing his concern about the imminent closing of the Broad Avenue Post Office in Albany, Georgia. In the letter, Congressman Bishop requested to be provided with the financial justifications behind this decision, the plans to find employment for the post office employees at the location, and if there are any proposals to open another post office in Albany to replace the Broad Avenue location. "I am concerned about the negative impact a sudden closure of the Broad Avenue Post Office will have on Albany and the surrounding communities," says Congressman Bishop. "The jobs, businesses, and residents of Albany that rely on our local branch deserve the right to know why the office is closing and what their best options will be in the future." The United States Postal Service (USPS) has recently been facing financial challenges and post office closures. The USPS’s lease had expired on the Broad Avenue location and the USPS decided not to renew it. This closure will have a large negative impact on Albany and the surrounding communities. The many businesses that rely on the Broad Avenue Post Office will face financial strains and hardships. For a copy of the letter sent by Congressman Bishop, please click here. ###
10.03.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Ranking Member on the U.S. House of Representatives Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veteran Affairs, and Related Agencies as well as the Co-Chair of the Congressional Military Family Caucus was awarded the Distinguished Service Award from the American Logistics Association (ALA). “There can be no mistake that the continuation of the PX and commissary programs is vitally important to military families and our veterans,” said Bishop. “I applaud you for your hard work ensuring these programs continue their successful partnerships with America's leading manufacturers. These programs serve as a good example of a public/private partnership that works for the common good, a model we should all strive to support.” “Congressman Bishop stands tall among the staunchest advocates in Congress for the military and their families,” said Pat Nixon, President of the American Logistics Association. “It is our privilege to recognize him with our most prestigious award. He is a friend of the industry and a supporter of robust job creation, especially for military families and veterans. We salute and value his dedication, service, and passion for our military and our nation.” Comprised of nearly 250 manufacturers, military sales brokerage firms, suppliers, and distributors, The American Logistics Association is a trade association that serves as a central resource and representative voice for businesses and organizations who participate in the military marketplace. Already a heavy employer of returning military service members, the American Logistics Association and their member organizations have pledged 25,000 jobs by 2014 for veterans and their families in support of the White House’s Joining Forces Initiative. The ALA Distinguished Service Award is presented to an individual or individuals deemed by the ALA Board of Directors to have made during his of her career lasting contributions so truly significant that, in the opinion of the ALA Board, they will influence the cause of military resale, MWR/Services and subsistence achievement for all time. Gauged by such a measure, ALA believes the individual will have earned this distinguished honor in pursuit of the defense of this country. For a picture of Congressman Bishop receiving the award, please click here. ###
10.02.2012	CAMILLA, GA – Last Thursday, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) was awarded the Congressional Partnership Award from the National Association of Development Organizations (NADO) for his longtime support and leadership in promoting federal community, economic, and infrastructure development programs. “Congressman Bishop is a true leader who has displayed an unwavering commitment to providing new economic opportunities for our nation’s local communities,” said Russ Crowley, President of NADO. “Most importantly, Rep. Bishop understands that federal programs for basic infrastructure, small business development, job creation, and comprehensive economic development planning are essential for the long-term competitiveness of our local communities, especially during these tough economic times.” “With the right keys, a local community can open many doors of opportunity for the local economy,” said Congressman Bishop. “Through NADO’s work bridging different levels of government, between rural Georgia and grant resources, and between local non-profit organizations and their vital sources of funding, we have ensured that unemployed Americans will return to work, local governments will have the tools they need to supply their communities, and businesses will have the infrastructure necessary to grow and prosper.” NADO’s biennial awards program recognizes members of Congress that have displayed strong support of regional development polices. Winners were selected based on their support of NADO’s national legislative priorities, such as increased funding for the Economic Development Administration (EDA), and other federal community and economic development programs, strengthening the role of rural local officials in transportation planning, as well as supporting the work of regional development organizations at the local level. For a picture of Congressman Bishop receiving the award, please click here. ###
10.02.2012	ALBANY, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) toured Lincoln Elementary Magnet School in Albany, Georgia, met with cafeteria staff, ate lunch with the students, and held a media availability regarding the changes made to the lunch program at Lincoln Elementary Magnet School and schools throughout the entire nation. USDA Food and Nutrition Service’s Deputy Regional Administrator Erin Swanson–Hall, USDA Deputy Director of the Special Nutrition Program Steve Hortin, and Dougherty County Superintendent of Schools Dr. Joshua Murfree, Jr. joined Congressman Bishop on the tour. “Not all students have been blessed with as many choices of healthy food as are now being served at Lincoln Elementary Magnet School and schools across the nation.” said Congressman Bishop. “As every child deserves a shot at a healthy and productive life, the new national school nutrition improvements are an investment in our children’s future and the future success of our nation.” “Since one in three children are overweight or obese, and kids consume half their meals in schools, we must work together to make the school day healthier with healthier food, more exercise, and nutrition education. The Healthy, Hunger-Free Kids Act of 2010 is a great win for our nation’s kids – and their parents,” said Erin Swanson-Hall, USDA Food and Nutrition Service’s Southeast Deputy Regional Administrator. “Valuable feedback from parents and nutrition advocates helped shape new standards which are now in effect. We came to Lincoln Elementary Magnet School here in Albany today with Congressman Bishop to have a nutritious school lunch and spread the message that The School Day Just Got Healthier.” To start the 2012-2013 school year, USDA has launched a Back-to-School initiative, “The School Day Just Got Healthier,” to assist and prepare parents, students, and schools for the changes to the school food environment instituted by Healthy, Hunger Free Kids Act of 2012 (HHFKA). For more information about the “School Day Just Got Healthier Program”, please click here. To view pictures of today’s visit, please click here. ###
10.02.2012	CAIRO, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) delivered an address at the Cairo High School Navy Junior Reserve Officers Training Corps Program Pass and Review Ceremony. Rear Admiral David Steindl, Commander of the Naval Service Training Command, was in attendance as well as NJROTC cadets, students, teachers, administrators, and city and county officials. “Your futures are bright because right now, here in the present, you have a firm and tangible understanding of what it takes to be responsible students and role models for your peers,” said Congressman Bishop. “I challenge all of you to continue to use the invaluable skill sets that have gotten you to this point as you continue to proceed and progress through life.” Last year, the Secretary of the Navy had announced that the NJROTC program at Cairo High School was to be discontinued due to enrollment criteria. Congressman Bishop collaborated with the administration at Cairo High school and top Navy officials to persuade the Navy to reconsider its decision and to reinstate the program. Last year, 19 programs were shut down and no new NJROTC programs have been established in recent years. “We all know the vital importance that this ROTC program plays in the development of our young men and women and I am grateful that the Department of Defense reevaluated their decision,” said Congressman Bishop. “Our ROTC program is a beacon of inspiration and pride for us all and we can never just sit by idly and let it be taken away without having our voices heard. This program, which we all hold near and dear to our hearts, was saved by the collective unison of our voices and by the quality of the cadets that graduate from Cairo Junior ROTC.” For a picture of today’s event, please click here.
10.02.2012	Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) voted in favor of H.R. 3409, the “Coal Miner Employment and Domestic Energy Infrastructure Protection Act” in order to keep energy prices affordable, to streamline the federal regulatory process, and to prevent regulatory initiatives that unnecessarily impede economic growth. “While I am in favor of exploring new renewable options for our energy supply, it is important to protect the sources of fuel we already draw upon,” said Congressman Bishop. “Rural America and businesses across our nation need to be able to rely on a steady and affordable source of energy in order to continue to drive America forward.” H.R.3409 is supported by the United States Chamber of Commerce and the American Farm Bureau and is designed to keep price of coal low—a necessity for affordable electric production in Georgia. The bill also decreases the Environmental Protection Agency’s authority over water regulation if a state opposes the agency’s actions. Passage of this bill will ensure that Georgians are able to prioritize their water needs, can weigh in on federal regulations in a meaningful way, and have access to an essential resource they need to do business. Finally, an increase in cost of business for farmer and ranchers would potentially raise food prices for consumers. H.R. 3409 passed the U.S. House of Representatives in a vote of 233 to 175. ###
09.20.2012	COLUMBUS, GA – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement today announcing the awarding of a Fiscal Year 2012 Mental Health and Substance Abuse Service Grant by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services to the New Horizons Community Service Board based in Columbus, GA. Mental Health and Substance Abuse Service Grants are used to promote quality behavioral health programs that focus on prevention, treatment, and recovery support services. “The New Horizons Community Service Board has been a leader in providing a full range of mental health services to the Chatahoochee Valley area,” said Congressman Bishop. “With this award, individuals and families struggling with mental illness, developmental disabilities, and addictive diseases will have better access to the services they need to lead successful lives.” Ms. Sherman Whitfield, Director of New Horizon’s Health Community Service Board remarked, “New Horizons is very grateful to Congressman Sanford Bishop and his office for their support in applying for this grant from SAMHSA. These dollars will go a long way towards fulfilling our vision of providing an integrated healthcare home in Columbus.” Within the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration's (SAMHSA) mission is to reduce the impact of substance abuse and mental illness on America's communities. This award of $400,000 will go towards the New Horizons Community Service Board’s mission of providing ongoing, accessible, and affordable services to persons with mental health needs, developmental disabilities, and addictive diseases. New Horizons Community Service Board expects to work with over 20 community healthcare providers and faith-based organizations to make and accept referrals for services in order to promote the independence, well-being, and recovery for individuals in the Clay, Harris, Talbot, Muscogee, Chatahoochee, Stewart, Quitman, and Randolph counties. ###
09.17.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement today in recognition of Hispanic Heritage Month, which runs from September 15 to October 15: “Every year, we join together during National Hispanic Heritage Month to celebrate the many positive contributions that one of our nation’s fastest-growing populations and largest ethnic communities has made to our great nation. “Since the earliest days of the founding of America to the current day, Latinos have played a vital role in molding the American landscape. From the approximately 1 million Latino veterans who have fought for our freedoms, to the labor leaders and civil rights activists who have struggled for economic equality, the Latino community is truly woven into the fabric of our American tapestry. “While these achievements are great, there is still more work that needs to be done to address issues that affect the Latino community as it continues to become even more intricately woven into the American fabric. “It is indeed a pleasure to join all Americans in celebrating Hispanic Heritage Month. Our nation’s vibrant ethnic diversity is a large building block on the foundation upon which America has built its success as a nation of strong values and democratic principles. Thank you to the Latino community for the rich and positive contributions you all have made to the evolving mosaic of our nation.” To view the video of Congressman Bishop’s public service announcement, please click here. ###
09.11.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement today to commemorate the 11th anniversary of 9/11: “As a nation, we remember the pain 9/11 has brought upon our homeland. The shock of an unprovoked attack, the outrage against known perpetrators, the shared sadness at the loss of life, and, as the years rolled on, the bitterness against what seemed like an almost insurmountable task of bringing the architects of 9/11 to justice. “Families, entire communities, and our society’s roots were torn asunder with the loss of those innocents murdered at the World Trade Center, at the Pentagon, and on Flight 11, Flight 175, Flight 77, and Flight 93. Through our hunt of Al Qaeda, millions of military families, veterans, and members of the U.S. Armed Forces have paid a heavy price while in service to their country. “Now, eleven years later, we can commemorate the 11th of September assured that the original mastermind behind arguably the most detestable and devastating peacetime attack on Americans has finally been caught and neutralized, never to threaten the free world again. Though the death of Osama Bin Laden will never replace the loss of loved ones and neighbors, it will come as some solace that our nation is safe from his personal engagement in the War on Terror. “As we remember the previous decade, it must be proudly noted that through the grief of a nation shone a steely resolve to search for justice and a unified ambition to heal our wounds as a society. Today, we stand together in sustained vigilance against those who might harm the United States—and in support of the individuals who sacrifice of themselves daily in order to protect those whom we love and the rights we hold dear. “As a Member of Congress, I will continue to rely on the spirit of those Americans we lost on 9/11 to guide me in my duties to maintain our nation’s commitment to securing our nation, protecting our citizenry, and standing strong with our armed forces, now and forever.” Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. joined his colleagues in a moment of silence on the steps of the U.S. Capitol. Please click here to view the photo of Congress’ remembrance. ###
08.29.2012	ALBANY, GA – On Friday, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), member of the Friends of Jobs Corps Congressional Caucus, addressed the 2012 Graduating Class of Turner Job Corps Center in Albany, Georgia. A unique national program with 125 centers across the country, Job Corps offers at-risk youth varied academic opportunities and career pathways in business and industry. “Life, and all it has to offer, is a vast ocean for you graduates,” said Congressman Bishop in his speech. “You must explore, and be fearless in your adventures. Go out into the world, and do not be afraid to get caught in a storm. Life is for living, and with the tools you have received from this outstanding institution, you are prepared for the roughest of squalls.” Each year, Job Corps gives 60,000 youth a second chance. About 85 percent of Job Corps graduates are employed, enlisted in the military or enrolled in higher education within six months of graduation. The average Job Corps center supports 228 local jobs, and every dollar invested in Job Corps returns almost $2 to the local economy. Job Corps students and staff are also heavily involved in service to their communities, logging many hours of volunteer service every year. For a photo of Congressman Bishop delivering the speech, please click here. ###
08.21.2012	MACON, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) joined Senator Saxby Chambliss, Senator Johnny Isakson, Congressman Austin Scott, Major General Rick Goddard, the Georgia Chamber of Commerce in discussing the impact of the defense sequester on the greater Macon, Bibb county, and Warner Robins communities. After meeting with Robins Air Force Base leadership, a public forum was held in Middle Georgia Technical College in Warner Robins to discuss the potential impact of sequestration on the greater metro area. Today’s discussion continues Congressman Bishop’s public dialogue on sequester. Two weeks ago, Congressman Bishop joined his Senate colleagues at similar forums with Fort Benning leadership in Columbus, the Marine Corps Logistics Base leadership in Albany, and the Georgia National Guard. The threat of a pending defense sequester comes after the failure of last year’s Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, or “The Supercommittee”, to enact a deficit reduction plan for $1.2 trillion over the next ten years. The threat of mutually disagreeable cuts to both defense and non-defense programs was designed to keep both Republicans and Democrats at the negotiating table to reach a compromise agreement. “The sequester was intended to be a sword—a warning hanging over the heads of Congress to ensure that they work in a bipartisan manner to enact a deficit reduction plan,” said Congressman Bishop. “It is an unwise and destructive policy whose potential impact on Southwest Georgia could be significant, causing a ripple effect throughout the local economy, leading to greater unemployment and reduced profits for local businesses.” If no compromise is reached, sequestration will be scheduled to take effect on January 2, 2013. For Fiscal Year 2013 alone, a $109 billion cut in discretionary spending will be required of the national budget. While cuts to defense programs would be devastating, only half of the total cuts would come from the defense industry; Head Start, nutrition assistance, Title I grants to local educational agencies, medical research at the National Institutes of Health, job training and employment services for veterans through the U.S. Department of Labor, food safety and workplace safety inspections, border enforcement, and our National Park System are among the numerous non-defense programs to be impacted by sequestration. According to a recent report by the National Association of Manufacturers, defense cuts resulting from sequester would destroy one million jobs by 2014, of which 38,700 would be in Georgia. While defense and non-defense industries will share responsibility with eventual budget cuts from the Budget Control Act, veterans, military families, defense contractors, teachers, police officers, and many others will feel the uncomfortable edge of program cuts if no agreement is reached to prevent sequestration well before January 2, 2013. “There is still time for Congress to come together and hammer out a balanced, bipartisan agreement that will prevent sequestration, reduce the deficit, strengthen our nation’s military, and grow the economy for the future,” continued Congressman Bishop. “In order to do so, we have to put our country first and resist partisanship. Macon, Bibb County, Warner Robins, the State of Georgia, and the entire nation are looking to us to do the right thing.”
08.20.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (D-GA) and Congressman Rick Crawford (R-AR), Co-Chairs of the Congressional Chicken Caucus, welcomed advance notification of the Mexican government’s decision to delay the implementation of anti-dumping duties on U.S. chicken leg quarters. In June 2012, the Congressional Chicken Caucus sent a letter to Ambassador Ron Kirk, the U.S. Trade Representative, expressing its concern that antidumping duties would have a devastating economic impact on the U.S. Chicken Industry and supporting industries. “Mexico’s decision to delay duties on U.S. chicken leg quarter imports comes as great news to the poultry industry in Georgia and across the entire nation,” said Congressman Bishop. “Especially in light of our current economy, no farmer, rancher, or poultry producer should have to sustain the damage unwarranted anti-dumping duties would inflict upon the market.” “Gratuitous anti-dumping duties hurt chicken producers across the country,” said Congressman Crawford. “Arkansas chicken producers welcome Mexico’s decision to delay duties on U.S. chicken leg quarters.” The decision comes after the Mexican government spent eighteen months investigating allegations of dumping of U.S. chicken leg quarters. After a meeting of the National Chicken Council, the USA Poultry & Egg Export Council, and high ranking officials within the Mexican government, the Mexican Foreign Trade Commission has announced anti-dumping penalties will not be applied to imports of chicken leg quarters until the H7N3 avian influenza outbreak in Jalisco, Mexico dissipates, normalizing Mexican domestic market pricing. U.S. chicken companies directly employ over 300,000 workers, producing products worth a wholesale value of over $45 billion dollars annually with major operations in more than 30 states. Further, there are more than 40 companies that contract with about 25,000 family farmers to produce market-ready broilers, hatching eggs and pullets. To read the Congressional Chicken Caucus’ letter to Ambassador Kirk, please click here. ###
08.20.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement today announcing the awarding of five new and continuing grants from the U.S. Department of Agriculture to assist socially disadvantaged farmers, ranchers, and landowners in Georgia. A total of 70 grants were awarded throughout the United States through the Outreach and Assistance to Socially Disadvantaged Farmers and Ranchers (OASDFR) Competitive Grants Program, also known as the “2501 Program.” “I am very grateful for these USDA grants and the positive impact they will have on our farmers and rural communities in Southwest Georgia,” said Congressman Bishop. “I commend USDA and Secretary Tom Vilsack for their commitment to helping socially disadvantaged farmers and ranchers succeed. A strong and sustainable rural foundation is vital in strengthening our nation’s economy.” “The funding for this project is so critical as it comes at a time when numerous historically underrepresented landowners in the region are keeping their properties idle for lack of financial support for legal and technical guidance,” said Govind Kannan, Dean of the College of Agriculture, Family Sciences and Technology at recipient Fort Valley State University. “Through this project, FVSU Cooperative Extension Program under the leadership of Dr. Mark Latimore, will provide the needed support to enable landowners to be engaged and make the best use of their properties. We are very pleased that this project received funding." USDA granted continuing awards of $287,291 to the Federation of Southern Cooperatives to provide assistance to African-American farmers in Southwest Georgia; $300,000 to Fort Valley State University to help minority farmers change their educational and technological approach to USDA programs; and $300,000 to Southwest Georgia Project to advance the production and marketing development of socially disadvantaged women farmers. USDA also granted two new awards to two Georgia universities: $243,544 to Albany State University to provide environmental assistance and education and $275,163 to Fort Valley State University to the Landowners Initiative for Forestry Education (LIFE) program. ###
08.20.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement lamenting the death of Air Force Major Walter D. Gray of Conyers, Georgia, who was killed in a suicide bomb attack in Afghanistan. "I am deeply saddened to learn of the death of Major Walter Gray of the 93rd Air Ground Operations Wing out of Moody Air Force Base,” said Congressman Bishop. “While Major Gray's sacrifice reflects his strength of leadership, bravery in life, and legacy of service that will remain for years to come, our grateful nation's thoughts and prayers go out to his family, friends, and squadron during this difficult time of loss." Commissioned in October 1997, Maj. Gray was an Air Liaison Officer, one of the first in this career, and flight commander for the 13 ASOS, a unit of the 93rd Air Ground Operations Wing at Moody Air Force Base in Georgia. Maj. Gray was deployed in support of Operation Enduring Freedom. His unit worked to assimilate combat airpower into ground operations. ###
08.20.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Ranking Democratic Member of the U.S. House of Representatives Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies, as well as Co-Chair of the Congressional Military Family Caucus, released the following statement today concerning the U.S. Department of Defense’s decision not to close any domestic military bases in fiscal year 2013. “I am pleased with Defense Secretary [Leon] Panetta’s announcement regarding the proposed round of BRAC for the next fiscal year,” said Congressman Bishop. “It is great news not only for Fort Benning, the Marine Corps Logistics Base in Albany, Robins Air Force Base, and other bases in Georgia, but for service members and their families throughout the entire state. I look forward to continuing my work with my colleagues in the Georgia Congressional Delegation, Governor Deal, and the Georgia Military Affairs Coordinating Committee [GMACC] in strengthening our bases in Georgia.” The U.S. Department of Defense’s Base Realignment and Closure Commission (BRAC) serves to strategically downsize the physical infrastructure of the United States military both stateside and abroad. While previous rounds of BRAC have cut DOD expenditures, the process shifts military families and threatens thousands of jobs within supporting communities surrounding the closing bases. In June, Congressman Sanford Bishop attended a bi-partisan roundtable with GMACC, military leadership, and representatives from Governor Deal’s office to discuss and prepare for the potential impact of BRAC on Georgia. The Department of Defense has announced that another round of base realignment and closure will be revisited in 2015 after the economy has fully recovered if it is approved by Congress.
08.08.2012	COLUMBUS, GA – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement today announcing the awarding of the Fiscal Year 2012 Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) by the U.S. Department of Justice to the City of Columbus and the City of Albany. The Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program (JAG) allows states and local governments to support various activities to prevent and control crime. “These awards invest in initiatives to assist our law enforcement officers in their fight to keep our communities safe and free from crime,” said Congressman Bishop. “I am pleased that Albany and Columbus will have more resources available to them to make our district safer.” Mayor Teresa Tomlinson of Columbus remarked, “We are so very fortunate to have strong congressional leadership that assists us in finding these grant opportunities. We are thankful that the Justice Assistance grant program recognizes the important services provided by our Drug Court and Mental Health Court, as well as the success these courts have had in reducing future criminal behavior. Chief John Proctor of the Albany Police Department said, “The Albany Police Department is extremely appreciative and honored to have received this grant. In hard economic times when local budgets are tight, this award allows us to continue to advance some of our technological and equipment needs.” The City of Columbus will use this Fiscal Year 2012 JAG award of $99,081 to support the Adult and Juvenile Drug Courts and Mental Health Court programs. Albany will use the $70,673 award to support law enforcement initiatives through training and the purchase of a surveillance camera, tasers, computers, and other equipment. ###
08.08.2012	ALBANY, COLUMBUS; GA – Yesterday, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) joined Senator Saxby Chambliss, Senator Johnny Isakson, Major General David Bockel, the Albany Chamber of Commerce, and the Columbus Chamber of Commerce in discussing the impact of the defense sequester on the greater Albany and Columbus communities. After meeting with the leaders of Fort Benning, Georgia National Guard, and Marine Corps Logistics Base, public forums were held on the defense sequester in both Albany and Columbus. The threat of a pending defense sequester comes after the failure of last year’s Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, or “The Supercommittee”, to enact a deficit reduction plan for $1.2 trillion over the next ten years. The threat of mutually disagreeable cuts to both defense and non-defense programs was designed to keep both Republicans and Democrats at the negotiating table to reach a compromise agreement. “The defense sequester is an unwise and destructive policy that was never meant to happen in the first place,” said Congressman Bishop. “The potential impact of these cuts in Southwest Georgia could be significant, causing a ripple effect throughout the local economy, leading to greater unemployment and reduced profits for local businesses.” If no further deficit reduction agreement is reached before January 2, 2013, the sequestration will take effect. For Fiscal Year 2013 alone, a $109 billion cut in discretionary spending will be required, around half of which will come from national defense programs. According to a recent report by the National Association of Manufacturers, defense cuts resulting from sequester would destroy one million jobs by 2014, of which 38,700 would be in Georgia. “There is still time for Congress to come together and hammer out a balanced, bipartisan agreement that will prevent sequestration, reduce the deficit, strengthen our nation’s military, and grow the economy for the future,” continued Congressman Bishop. “In order to do so, we have to put our country first and resist partisanship. The Cities of Columbus and Albany, the State of Georgia, and the entire nation are looking to us to do the right thing.” For pictures of today’s events in Albany, please click here. For pictures of today’s events in Columbus, please click here.
08.02.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) supported H.R. 6233, the Agricultural Disaster Assistance Act, which would authorize assistance to farmers affected by drought, wildfires, and other natural disasters that occurred in fiscal year 2012. “In light of the recent record-breaking drought in Southwest Georgia this measure is vitally important to Georgia’s farmers and agricultural community,” said Congressman Bishop. “While I am concerned that the legislation makes significant reductions to much-needed conservation programs, the measure will provide much-needed relief for these farmers while Congress pushes for the passage of a fair and comprehensive Farm Bill.” The Disaster Assistance bill reauthorizes and modifies several disaster assistance programs that ended on October 1, 2011 including the Livestock Forage Disaster Program (LFP); Livestock Indemnity Payments (LIP); Emergency Assistance for Livestock, Honeybees, and Farm-Raised Fish (ELAP); and the Tree Assistance Program (TAP). Producers would receive assistance for losses that are incurred from October 1, 2011 up to September 30, 2012. The $383 million cost of reauthorizing these four disaster assistance programs is offset by cutting $639 million in conservation programs over the next 10 years. As a result, the Congressional Budget Office estimates that the bill would reduce the deficit by $256 million over the next decade. The measure was approved by the United States House of Representatives by a vote of 223 to 197. ###
07.24.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Last week, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), who serves on the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, joined 62 of his colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives in sending a letter the House Leadership urging them to bring H.R. 6083, the Federal Agriculture Reform and Risk Management (FARRM) Act, or Farm Bill, to a vote before the August District Work Period, scheduled to begin on August 4, 2012. "Georgia’s agriculture sector is our state’s largest industry and plays a vital role in our economy,” said Congressman Bishop. “Farmers, producers, ranchers, and rural America are all looking to the U.S. House of Representatives to bring this important bill to an immediate vote.” The House Agriculture Committee approved the Farm Bill on July 12, 2012 on a bipartisan vote of 35 to 11. The full U.S. Senate approved its version of the Farm Bill on June 21, 2012 by a vote of 64 to 35. Unless Congress acts, many of the current farm bill policies on farm commodity support, crop insurance coverage, conservation programs, nutrition and agricultural research, and rural development will expire on September 30, 2012. Since one-in-seven Georgians works in agriculture, the need to bring the FARRM Act up for consideration in the U.S. House of Representatives before the August District Work Period is vital. Furthermore, it is important that Congress reauthorize agricultural disaster assistance to drought-stricken states like Georgia. To read the letter to House Leadership, please click here.
07.19.2012	WASHINGTON D.C. - Yesterday, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-O2), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies as well as co-Chair of the Congressional Military Families Caucus, spoke on the floor of the United States House of Representatives against the Kingston-McCollum amendment to the Fiscal Year 2013 Defense Appropriations Act. If passed, the amendment would have prohibited the Department of Defense from investing resources in recruiting new soldiers through professional sports sponsorships. "Our military deserves access to the most qualified potential recruits available,” said Bishop. “If this amendment is accepted, the U.S. government would be eliminating a proven successful investment in our nation's military personnel. A vote for Representatives Kingston and McCollum's amendment is a vote against the effectiveness of our military." In addition to recruitment and a recognizable national profile, military sponsorships in professional sports provide a good return on investment, dollar for dollar. In 2011 alone, for example, the Army National Guard spent $44.4 million on motorsports sponsorships. Based on the market value, however, the total media exposure the Guard received totaled over $150 million, a 336% return on investment. If less is spent on advertising, the Department of Defense will have to increase bonuses to retain current military personnel and for recruitment. DoD professional sports partnerships have resulted in key transfers of technology. For example, NASCAR has worked with the Marines to improve Humvee suspension systems and develop mine detonating rollers. Both advances have saved Marines’ lives. Understanding the mutual benefits, the amendment was opposed by the National Football League (NFL), National Basketball Association (NBA), Major League Baseball (MLB), IndyCar, NASCAR, and the National Guard Association of the United States. According to the Department of Defense, the amendment would hinder military recruitment of qualified candidates, impair access to employment resources for our nation's military families, and severely damage a positive financial investment for our military. This amendment would also limit the military from participating in the Olympics, sports games flyovers, sponsoring events such as the Marine Corps Marathon as well as air programs with the Blue Angels, the Thunderbirds, and Golden Knights. The Kingston-McCollum amendment was defeated in a bi-partisan vote of 216 to 202. To watch Congressman Sanford Bishop’s remarks on the floor, please click here.
07.19.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies, stood in support of Georgia’s tomato industry in regards to unfair trade practices. In a letter to the Acting Secretary of the U.S. Department of Commerce Rebecca Blank, Congressman Bishop called for the withdrawal of the 1996 antidumping petition and the termination of the 2008 Suspension Agreement governing the importation of tomatoes from Mexico. "I believe that the 2008 Agreement has not lived up to expectations and has had a detrimental impact on our domestic tomato industry,” wrote Congressman Bishop. “The agreement was intended to discourage, if not prevent, our Mexican trading partners from undercutting tomato prices in the United States. Unfortunately, however, that has not been the effect. Both the Mexican government as well as Mexican tomato producers have ignored the agreement in total.” In 1996, an antidumping petition requesting relief from unfairly traded imports of fresh tomatoes from Mexico was filed by tomato producers from across the nation. After examining the facts, the United States government determined that there was reason to believe the subject tomatoes were being sold in this country at less than fair value at margins as high as 188 percent. Today, Mexican tomato imports have roughly tripled, reaching a staggering level of approximately $1.8 billion last year. U.S. tomato farmers are still reeling from the 2008 tomato salmonella recall debacle as consumers ‘quit buying tomatoes’ on the recommendation of the Food and Drug Administration and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. In Georgia alone, tomato growers lost over $14 million from tomatoes grown but not sold; growers nationwide lost more than $125 million. By terminating the existing Agreement, fair market competition will be restored, predatory actions on the part of tomato producers in Mexico will be stopped, and Georgia growers of all size will be unburdened by the flood of unfairly priced tomatoes on the market. To read the letter to Acting Secretary Rebecca Blank, please click here.
07.12.2012	WASHINGTON D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-O2) joined Congressman Charles B. Rangel (D-NY) and Congressman Glenn Thompson (R-PA) to introduce the bipartisan Veterans E-Health & Telemedicine Support Act of 2012, a bill aimed at increasing Veterans' access to care. Also joining as original co-sponsors are: Reps. Donna Christensen (D-VI), Walter Jones (R-NC), Gregory Meeks (D-NY), Michael McCaul (R-TX), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), Laura Richardson (D-CA), Shelley Berkley (D-NV), Judy Chu (D-CA), Todd Platts (R-PA), and Mike Kelly (R-PA). The bipartisan legislation would allow Veterans Affairs (VA) health professionals, including contractors, to practice telemedicine across state borders if they are qualified and practice within the scope of their authorized federal duties, a big improvement on the status quo; currently, overly cumbersome location requirements can make it difficult for Veterans - especially those struggling with mental health issues - to get the help they need and deserve. "Veterans have often bravely defended our homeland with grave risk and consequence to their health,” comments Bishop. “They deserve the best quality care we can provide. This bill, if enacted, will ensure veterans get the treatment they need. Both parties can and should support that." Under current law, the VA can only waive the state license requirement for treatment if both the physician and patient are located in a federally-owned facility. The Veterans’ Telemedicine Act removes these barriers and allows the VA to provide treatment free of this restriction. Veterans will no longer be required to travel to a VA facility, but rather can receive telemedicine treatment anywhere, including their home or a community center. "Nearly eighteen veterans commit suicide every day," Bishop said. "Each one is a tragedy. It is my hope that this bill will assist Veterans struggling with mental health conditions by increasing the ease of access to facilities with necessary resources and mental health professionals." The bipartisan Veterans E-Health & Telemedicine Support Act of 2012 has been endorsed by: Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW), American Telemedicine Association and the American Foundation for Suicide Prevention. ###
07.04.2012	ALBANY, GA – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released a statement regarding Independence Day. "For many of us, the fourth of July is a day filled with family and community. Food cooked on the grill; spending time with loved ones, friends, and neighbors; fireworks once the sun goes down. It is a time to reflect upon our great nation and take pride in how far we, as a society, have come since our founding fathers signed the Declaration of Independence.” “While we celebrate our nation’s birth, please keep in mind the multitude of freedoms with which we are blessed as well as the many men and women who have served in order to ensure our Rights’ longevity. I would like to send a hearty greeting to our brave service members and their families this 4th of July. Whether you are home or abroad, please have a fulfilling and restful Independence Day, and on behalf of nearly 700,000 constituents, thank you for your service.” ###
06.29.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) supported the bipartisan passage of H.R. 4348, the Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act (MAP-21). The legislation extends for one year (through July 1, 2013) the current 3.4 percent loan rate on need-based student loans. Under current law, the rate would have doubled to 6.8 percent on July 1, 2012. The vote was 373 to 52. The Senate also approved the legislation today by a vote of 74-19. President Obama is expected to sign the bill into law this afternoon. "Millions of graduates in Georgia and around the United States are facing a challenging economic environment,” said Congressman Bishop. “I am pleased that the House finally acted in a bipartisan manner to provide them some relief and ensure that young Americans continue to have access to affordable post-secondary education.” If Congress did not act, over seven million students would have seen their student loan interest rates double. In addition, every year Congress did not act would have cost a student borrower $1,000 in additional repayment costs and added $6.3 billion to students’ debt burden in one year alone. In Georgia, over 225,000 students currently receive federal financial aid for post-secondary education. The legislation approved by Congress today will save them $913 over the life of the loan. ###
06.29.2012	WASHINGTON D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) responds to his action regarding H.Res.711, a resolution to find Attorney General Eric Holder in criminal contempt of Congress. “I joined my colleagues from the Congressional Black Caucus, the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, the Asian Pacific Caucus, The Progressive Caucus, and others from the House Democratic Caucus in refraining to participate in the contempt vote against Attorney General Eric Holder in connection with the Fast and Furious investigation” said Congressman Bishop. “This time honored and dignified process established by our founding fathers is being corrupted for partisan purposes and I stand with my colleagues in the House who refuse to validate and legitimize this attack on the dignity of the House of Representatives by participating in this poisonous process.” For more information regarding gunwalking in Arizona, please refer to House Democrats’ report here. ###
06.28.2012	WASHINGTON D.C. – Today, the Supreme Court of the United States announced their 5 to 4 vote to uphold the Health Care law. “With the Supreme Court’s upholding of the health care law, health insurers are still stopped from denying coverage to those with pre-existing conditions, senior citizens’ prescription drug costs have declined significantly, young people still have the ability to stay on their parents’ plan until the age of 26, those with deteriorating health are safe from being dropped by their insurance company, and community health centers can continue to get the funding needed to provide primary care to those who need it. Understanding that this bill is not perfect, I am thankful that my constituents will continue to be benefitted by the continuation of the healthcare law.” As reported by Healthcare.gov, the immediate provisions within the Health Care law have already benefitted individual Georgians greatly. Prescription drugs for Seniors: Since the law was enacted, Georgia residents with Medicare have saved a total of $102,152,300 on their prescription drugs. 106,922 people with Medicare in Georgia received a $250 rebate to help cover the cost of their prescription drugs when they hit the donut hole in 2010. By 2020, the law will close the donut hole. Removing Lifetime Limits: The law bans insurance companies from imposing lifetime dollar limits on health benefits – freeing cancer patients and individuals suffering from other chronic diseases from having to worry about going without treatment because of their lifetime limits. Already, 3,317,000 residents, including 1,256,000 women and 916,000 children, are free from worrying about lifetime limits on coverage. The law also restricts the use of annual limits and bans them completely in 2014. New coverage for those with Pre-existing conditions: As of April 2012, 2,066 previously uninsured residents of Georgia who were locked out of the coverage system because of a pre-existing condition are now insured through a new Pre-Existing Condition Insurance Plan that was created under the new health reform law. To learn more about the plan available in Georgia. Community Health Centers: Health centers in Georgia have received $49.0 million to create new health center sites in medically underserved areas, enable health centers to increase the number of patients served, expand preventive and primary health care services, and/or support major construction and renovation projects. New coverage options for Young Adults: Health plans are now required to allow parents to keep their children under age 26 without job-based coverage on their family coverage, and, thanks to this provision, 3.1 million young people have gained coverage nationwide. As of December 2011, 123,000 young adults in Georgia gained insurance coverage as a result of the health care law. Better value for your dollar: Under the new health care law, insurance companies must provide consumers greater value by spending generally at least 80 percent of premium dollars on health care and quality improvements instead of overhead, executive salaries or marketing. If they don’t, they must provide consumers a rebate or reduce premiums. This means that 243,813 Georgia residents with private insurance coverage will benefit from $19,764,771 in rebates from insurance companies this summer. These rebates will average $134 for the 147,000 families in Georgia covered by a policy. For more information and statistics, please visit Healthcare.gov. ###
06.28.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) attended a Congressional Gold Medal ceremony at the United States Capitol Visitor Center honoring the Montford Point Marines – the first African-Americans to serve in the United States Marine Corps. The ceremony comes after Congressman Bishop cosponsored a resolution last year to award the Congressional Gold Medal, the highest civilian award in the United States, to the Montford Point Marines for their service during World War II. “I am pleased that the Montford Point Marines are finally being honored not only for defending our nation in a time of war but also for helping to pioneer a movement toward equal opportunity and respect for universal human rights,” said Congressman Bishop. “Their enduring perseverance and the love that they had for our country helped them prove to the world that when given an opportunity, people can overcome any challenge and achieve any goal.” In 1942, President Franklin D. Roosevelt established a presidential directive allowing African Americans to be recruited into the Marine Corps. These recruits were trained at a segregated compound known as Montford Point, a facility at Camp Lejeune, North Carolina. Approximately 20,000 African Americans served in the Marine Corps during World War II. In July 1948, President Harry S. Truman issued Executive Order 9981 abolishing segregation in the U.S. Armed Forces and in September 1949, Montford Point was deactivated, ending seven years of segregation. The camp was later renamed Camp Johnson after Sgt. Maj. Gilbert "Hashmark" Johnson, one of the first African Americans to join the Corps. Of the nearly 400 Montford Point Marines attending today’s ceremony at the Capitol Visitor Center, twenty of the honorees are from Georgia. Please click here to view some pictures from today’s event.
06.20.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) was awarded the National Capital Area Council of the Boy Scouts of America’s “Good Scout” Award for his years of service as an Eagle Scout and longtime support of the Boy Scouts of America. Surrounded by Scouts, adult leaders, and members of the National Capital Area Council, Congressman Bishop humbly accepted the award: “I would not be where I am—I would not be who I am if it were not for the many many people who supported and enhanced my scouting experience,” said Congressman Bishop. “That kind of volunteerism, that kind of investment in young people’s character, is something that I couldn’t appreciate then as a Scout, but as I look back, I am so grateful. Thank you for what you are doing for these boys who will become young men—who are indeed the future.” An active member of the Mobile Area Council of the Boy Scouts of America, Congressman Sanford Bishop achieved the rank of Eagle Scout in 1962. Since then, he has been awarded the Distinguished Eagle Scout award for his dedication to public service and commitment to the Scout Oath. Congressman Bishop is the third recipient of the “Good Scout” award from the National Capital Area Council. Founded in 1911, the National Capital Area Council of BSA is currently one of the 300 plus local councils chartered by BSA’s National Council. Geographically comprised of six counties in Maryland, ten counties in Northern Virginia, and the District of Columbia, the National Capital Area Council serves more than 56,000 youth through the support of over 22,000 adult volunteers from the comprising counties. ###
06.14.2012	COLUMBUS, GA – Today, on Thursday, June 14, 2012, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) and Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), Co-Chairs of the Congressional Military Family Caucus (CMFC), hosted a Military Family Summit at the National Infantry Museum and Soldier Center near Fort Benning, Georgia. Today’s summit connected military families with Members of Congress, officials from the Department of Defense, personnel from the Department of Veterans’ Affairs, and various military and veteran support organizations to discuss pressing issues impacting America’s service members and their families. Military spouses, veterans, councilors, educators, and advocates voiced their concerns with homelessness in the veteran community, individual battles with PTSD, loss of employment due to relocation, and sacrifices stemming from the redeployment of loved ones. Members of the panels shared their own experiences as well as provided local and online resources available to those in need. After sharing his own personal struggles living in a military family, Congressman Bishop commented, “I mention my wife and her family’s experiences because often we tend to focus primarily on the service members who willingly put themselves in harm’s way to protect the freedoms we cherish. However, we cannot forget that the families they leave behind sacrifice just as much as our heroes who deploy on missions for our country.” “As Co-Chairs of the Military Family Caucus, we recognize that when a service member joins the military, it’s not just a job; it’s a family commitment to our country,” said McMorris Rodgers during her opening remarks. “As the wife of a retired Navy pilot, I’ve come to better appreciate the unique challenges our military families face and I’m committed to doing all we can in Congress to address them.” Keynote speakers included Mrs. Patricia Shinseki of the White House Joining Forces Initiative; Secretary Robert L. Gordon, the Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Military Community and Family Policy; and LTG Michael Ferriter, the Commander of the U.S. Army Installation Management Command and Assistant Chief of Staff for Installation Management. Representatives from the Wounded Warrior Project, Blue Star Families, the Military Child Education Coalition, and many other service groups also participated. The CMFC is a bipartisan congressional caucus that educates elected officials, congressional staffers, senior military leaders and the public on a wide range of unique issues that affect military families. Currently, over 80 Democrats and Republicans are members of the CMFC. In his opening remarks, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. praised our nation’s veterans and military families. Below is the text of Congressman Bishop’s remarks: To view photos, videos, and comments from today’s event, please visit our Facebook, Twitter, and YouTube pages: https://www.facebook.com/sanfordbishophttps://www.facebook.com/militaryfamilycaucushttps://twitter.com/sanfordbishophttps://www.youtube.com/user/RepSanfordBishop ### REMARKS BY THE HONORABLE SANFORD D. BISHOP, JR. CMFC FAMILY SUMMIT – NATIONAL INFANTRY MUSEUM COLUMBUS, GA - THURSDAY, JUNE 14, 2012 Good morning, Thank you all for joining us this morning at the second Congressional Military Family Caucus Family Summit! It’s a pleasure to be in a room with those who make America great – the brave service men and women who admirably defend our nation and safeguard our liberties. Today, I am honored to be joined by my friend, colleague and Co-Chair of the Congressional Military Family Caucus, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers from Washington State’s Fifth Congressional District. Married to a Navy pilot retired after 26 years of service, Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers knows firsthand the sacrifices our military families make as their loved ones fight to defend our nation. I want to thank both Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers and Brian, her husband, for their respective service to our great nation. I would be remiss if I did not also thank our keynote speakers – Mrs. Patricia Shinseki, Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense Robert Gordon, and LTG Michael Ferriter – for their participation in today’s event. Their service to military families has gone above and beyond the call of duty through the many things that they do. The active participation of the various government agencies and advocacy organizations will make this a truly informative event for all of us in attendance. Our moderators President and CEO of the Military Child Education Coalition Dr. Mary Keller; The Wounded Warrior Project’s Chief of Staff John Molino; and Blue Star Families Research and Policy Director Dr. Vivian Greentree have been especially helpful in assisting with today. Special thanks to Governor Deal’s office, Secretary of the State Brian Kemp’s office the Veteran’s Administration, and the U.S. and Columbus Chamber of Commerce for their support. Of course, I would like to thank all of our panelists for providing the backbone of the panels today; please make sure you ask them some great questions! Additionally, I would like to salute the outstanding work being done on behalf of our military families by First Lady Michelle Obama and Dr. Jill Biden with the Joining Forces Initiative; advocacy organizations such as Blue Star Families, the Wounded Warrior Project, the Military Child Education Coalition, the Military Officers Association of America, and many others who work every day to bridge the gap between government, business, the military, and military families; and the 85 Members of the bipartisan Senate Military Family Caucus. A note of thanks must be given to my staff, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers’ staff, LTG Carmen Cavezza of the National Infantry Foundation, and the staff here at the beautiful National Infantry Museum. They have worked hard to pull today together and I am looking forward to watching the day progress. On a side note, it was a proud day for me when I had the opportunity to see the doors of this wonderful museum open in my home district. Located no more than 10 minutes from the doors of the Home of the Infantry, FT Benning, I could not be happier than to see this museum host this year’s Military Family Caucus Summit. But most of all, I would like to thank the service members, military families, and veterans that are here with us today. Our nation will forever be indebted to you for service and selfless sacrifices. A few years ago, Congresswoman McMorris-Rodgers and I founded the Congressional Military Families Caucus because, through our experiences with military families, we felt it was important to educate elected officials, congressional staffers, senior military leaders and the public on a wide range of issues that affect military families such as: • Educational challenges facing military children; • PTSD and suicide prevention amongst service members and veterans; • Access and education about military retirement benefits; • Spousal employment needs and licensing issues; and • Post-service employment for veterans; Last October, Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers and I held a town hall with military families stationed at Fairchild Air Force Base in Spokane, Washington and heard directly from them on a wide range of issues. Following up on what we learned, the Caucus held our first Military Family Summit in Washington, DC in January of last year. Both the town hall we held at Fairchild Air Force Base, our first summit in Washington DC, and today’s summit are vital to our efforts in finding policy solutions that will benefit our nation’s beloved veterans and military families. Today we have three panel sessions designed to help us to work together to improve your quality of life and expand your opportunities. We hope that you will actively participate by listening and asking questions of the panelists. You will also have access to the knowledge and services provided by the various advocacy organizations present here today. Understanding that the life of a military family presents a challenging set of issues, these organizations will work to make sure you have the knowledge and resources to meet your challenges with success. In closing, I will briefly share with you all that whenever I meet with military families, two people who frequently come to mind are my father-in-law and my wife. My father-in-law served in the U.S. military for several years and my wife was a military child. In fact, when my wife was a child, her family moved every two or three years. She spent her formative years at home and overseas. The constant change of station impacted her family both positively and negatively. Due to all of her family’s travels, my wife grew-up as a very well-rounded child in that she was able to gain exposure to different people and various cultures. However, the flip side of that coin is that with the frequent travels her family was forced to address hard pressing issues such as saying goodbye to old friends and acclimating themselves to new re-assignment locations. I mention my wife and her family’s experiences because often we tend to focus primarily on the service members who willingly put themselves in harm’s way to protect the freedoms we cherish. However, we cannot forget that the families they leave behind sacrifice just as much as our heroes who deploy on missions for our country. These families are impacted in countless ways – seen and unseen – and we have an obligation to do right by them. As the Co-Chair of the Congressional Military Family Caucus and Ranking Member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, please rest assured that the well-being of our men and women in uniform and their families will continue to be one of my top priorities. I look forward to continuing the good work of the Military Family Caucus with Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers and the over 80 Members of Congress who make up this Caucus. We have no choice but to see that our troops, veterans and their families have the support they need. Together, I know we can get the job done. Thank you all again for being here this morning and I very much look forward to today’s insightful dialogues. ###
06.08.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement today in remembrance of Lieutenant Commander Wesley Anthony Brown, who passed away on May 22, 2012 and was honored at a memorial service on June 6, 2012: “Lt. Cmdr. Wesley Brown, the first African American to graduate from the U.S. Naval Academy, was one of the brave pioneers ahead of the push for Civil Rights in the 1960s who helped lay the foundation for justice and equality. “Upon entering the U.S. Naval Academy in 1945, he knew that the road would be rough not only because of the difficulty of his studies and duties but also because of the color of his skin. But Lt. Cmdr. Brown did not let that stop him. He would be the first to endure until the end the hazing, the torment, and the hostility bred by racial inequality. He would be the first to hold his head high and keep true to himself amid the tension. He would be the first to graduate.” “Despite this great accomplishment, Lt. Cmdr. Brown has remained humble throughout his life, honoring those in whose footsteps he had followed and speaking words of encouragement to those who followed in his footsteps. As we pay tribute to the life of this strong and courageous man, we have the opportunity to come together to celebrate an illuminating cultural history of overcoming hardship and achieving advancement. It is my hope that we continue to appreciate America’s inclusive cultural diversity and to progress to become a more united and prosperous nation.” ###
06.05.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement today regarding the Cairo High School Navy Junior Reserve Officers Training Corps Program: “I am very pleased to announce that Secretary of the Navy Ray Mabus has informed me that the NJROTC Program at Cairo High School will be reinstated. After the decision was made last year to discontinue the program, this is wonderful and welcome news that the Department of Defense and the Department of the Navy have reevaluated their decision. I’m grateful that the Navy and the Department of Defense took the time to listen to our concerns and am excited for the future of the NJROTC Program at Cairo High School.” So far, the Cairo NJROTC program is the only one of 29 programs across the country scheduled to be discontinued this year that will be reinstated. Last year, 19 programs were shut down and no new NJROTC programs have been established in recent years. The Superintendent of Schools for Grady County, Tommy Pharis, was also pleased with the reversal of the decision. “The Junior ROTC program is an integral part of our high school,” he said. “Serving about 10% of the entire student body, it meets the needs of a lot of our students. I want to thank Congressman Bishop and his staff for going to bat for us and working so that we can keep this program.” The Cairo NJROTC program had been discontinued due to low enrollment in the 2010-2011 academic term. Since then, however, the program has enrolled over 100 cadets, exceeding the program requirement set out in the United States Code and Department of Defense Directives. After the NJROTC program received a denial of their initial request for reinstatement, Congressman Bishop corresponded with top Department of Defense and Department of the Navy officials strongly encouraging them to reconsider the decision. After a series of meetings over several months time, Congressman Bishop received the welcome news. Located at Cairo High School, Congressman Bishop notes that the program finds fertile ground for assisting the U.S. Armed Forces grow leadership out of rural Georgia for a future in leadership positions. “Junior ROTC programs have historically served as highly effective community outreach tools for the Department of Defense,” said Congressman Bishop. “They have allowed the United States Armed Forces to reach segments of our nation’s population that would otherwise be closed off. Maintaining the NJROTC program at Cairo High School will allow the Navy to continue to develop its ongoing lineage of leaders as diverse as the population they are entrusted to lead.” ###
05.25.2012	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement today in recognition of Memorial Day on Monday, May 28, 2012: “This time of year, our nation gathers to honor the memories of the heroic men and women who have made the ultimate sacrifice to defend our cherished American freedoms as well as the brave Veterans who return home after enduring much more than many people do in a lifetime. We must also take a moment to support those who have lost loved ones or have family members currently serving our country. “There are currently more than 772,000 veterans living in our state and more than 200 brave men and women from Georgia have given their lives in the Iraq and Afghanistan wars. As we pause to remember these courageous men and women, we also have a solemn obligation to ensure that the valiant Americans currently serving in our nation’s military, their families, and our veterans are sustained now and into the future. “As a member of the House Appropriations Committee and Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans Affairs and Co-Chair of the Congressional Military Family Caucus, I will continue to do my part to work in a bipartisan fashion to ensure that our troops, their families, and America’s veterans have the tools they need to succeed in their missions.” ###
05.24.2012	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement today congratulating Phillip Phillips, a Leesburg, Georgia native and the newest American Idol winner, after last night’s season finale: “I would like to extend my sincerest congratulations to Phillip Phillips on this remarkable accomplishment. He makes us so proud! “I had said at the recent homecoming celebration held in Leesburg in honor of Phillip that in our area of southwest Georgia, we have some of the best, the brightest, the most creative, and the most talented young people anywhere in the world. And Phillip Phillips proves that beyond the shadow of a doubt! He epitomizes the highest standards of perseverance, humility, and values that reflect the strongest foundations of character. “Thanks for all the prayers, support and the millions of votes. Phillip is a true “American Idol” and we could not be more proud of him!” ###
05.16.2012	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement today after the U.S. House of Representatives’ vote on H.R. 4970, the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act (VAWA). The legislation was approved by the House by a vote of 222 to 205. Representative Bishop opposed the measure. “Since 1994, the Violence Against Women Act has been a vital and successful tool in combating domestic violence at the federal, state, and local levels,” said Bishop. “However, the reauthorization measure passed by the House today would weaken this important law and make it more difficult for women, children, and families to seek protection from abusive relationships. The bill imposes excessive and burdensome audit requirements on VAWA grant recipients, erodes significant safety provisions for immigrant and American Indian women, and fails to ensure that all victims of sexual violence are protected under the law. This misguided legislation will make domestic violence victims less safe and needs to be rewritten to strengthen the underlying Violence Against Women Act.” ###
05.15.2012	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement today in recognition of the 150th anniversary of the United States Department of Agriculture: “Today, I join Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack in commemorating the 150th anniversary of the U.S. Department of Agriculture and its work on behalf of the agriculture industry, rural America and people across the nation and the world who benefit from the work of the agency. “With more than 10 million acres of farmland in Georgia alone, agriculture continues to be a vitally important sector of our economy and our nation as it was when the Department was created in 1862. Nationally, 1 in 12 jobs is linked to agriculture and forestry and American consumers have access to an abundant, diverse food supply while on average spending less than 10 percent of their disposable income on food. “In order to further increase the quality and quantity of our nation’s food supply, the value of agriculture, science and innovation cannot be underestimated. We will rely on the work of producers across the country supported by USDA and our land grant colleges to meet the challenges of the future through agriculture research, biotechnology, and innovation. As we celebrate the partnership USDA has built with farmers and rural Americans, I commend the Department’s ongoing commitment to rebuilding and revitalizing our nation's future.” ###
05.03.2012	ALBANY, GA – On Wednesday, May 2, 2012, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) announced the winners of the 2012 Congressional Art Competition. Angel Helms, a senior from Thomas County Central High School in Thomasville, Georgia, won first place at this year’s competition. “I would like to congratulate and thank all of our 2012 Congressional Art Competition award winners and participants for all the hard work and dedication they put into making this year’s art competition a success,” said Congressman Bishop. “The judges had their work cut out for them in picking a winner, but I am happy to congratulate Angel Helms as this year’s first place award recipient. I look forward to unveiling Angel’s piece of art in the U.S. Capitol next month at a ceremony honoring her and other young artists from across the country.” The competition was open to high school students from Georgia’s Second Congressional District. Students who participated in the competition will have their works on display at 235 West Roosevelt Avenue, Albany Towers, Suite 114 in Albany, Georgia until Friday, May 11, 2012. The works of art were judged by a panel of three independent judges. The Congressional Art Competition is a nation-wide high school arts competition held each spring. Each participating Member of Congress selects a winner from their Congressional district and their work is displayed in the United States Capitol for one year. Since the competition's beginning in 1982, over 650,000 high school students from across the country have participated. First Place Angel Helms Thomas County Central High School (Thomasville, GA), 12th Grade Charcoal – “Inside the Refrigerator” Second Place Abby Hutchins Deerfield-Windsor School (Albany, GA), 10th Grade Third Place (tie) Mallory Jones Jordan High School (Columbus, GA), 12th Grade Watercolor – “Portrait of my Brother” Third Place (tie) Karen Badillo Thomas County Central High School (Thomasville, GA), 10th Grade Ink – “Peacock” Honorable Mentions Emily Murphy Deerfield-Windsor School (Albany, GA), 11th Grade Samantha Skipper Peach County High School (Fort Valley, GA), 12th Grade Graphite Pencil and Charcoal – “Merciless Cult”
04.25.2012	Columbus, Ga. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), founding co-chair of the bipartisan Congressional Military Family Caucus, commended the Georgia General Assembly and Governor Nathan Deal for working together to pass and sign into law the Interstate Compact on Educational Opportunity for Military Children. The Compact provides for the uniform treatment of military children transferring between school districts and states. It was developed by The Council of State Governments' National Center for Interstate Compacts, the Department of Defense, education associations, federal and state officials, school administrators and military families. “Many of Georgia’s military children face significant challenges when their parents are deployed and they have to change schools,” said Congressman Bishop. “The General Assembly and Governor Deal deserve a lot of credit for coming together to address this important issue and ensure that these children are treated fairly.” More than 89,000 children in Georgia have at least one parent currently serving in the military. Most military children will attend six to nine different school systems in their lives from kindergarten to 12th grade. Switching schools for children in military families can bring about challenging issues associated with new academic calendars, different course curriculums and adjusting to different social settings. To help alleviate some of these challenges, over 40 states have adopted the Interstate Compact on Educational Opportunity for Military Children, which seeks to make transitions easier by, among other things, waiving courses for graduation if similar course work has been completed in another school district and accepting end-of-course exams and other tests from other states in lieu of requirements in the receiving state. ###
04.19.2012	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), the Ranking Democrat on the U.S. House of Representatives Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies, released the following statement regarding the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) recent announcement that the department would add approximately 1,600 mental health clinicians – to include nurses, psychiatrists, psychologists, and social workers as well as nearly 300 support staff to its existing workforce of 20,590 mental health staff as part of an ongoing review of mental health operations: “I would like to commend the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, Eric Shinseki, and his staff for their commitment to hire an additional 1,900 health care staffers to serve in our nation’s VA facilities,” said Congressman Bishop. “As we continue to draw down our forces in Iraq and Afghanistan, more of our returning service members will need access to quality mental health services. The VA’s decision to bring on more mental health clinicians is a good step towards ensuring that the federal government better anticipates and responds to the needs of those brave veterans who depend on the VA for vital health care services.” VA will allocate funds from its current budget to all 22 Veterans Integrated Service Networks (VISNs) across the country this month to immediately begin the recruitment of additional health care personnel. Last year, VA provided specialty mental health services to 1.3 million veterans. Since 2009, VA has increased its mental health care budget by 39 percent. Over the last five years, VA has seen a 35 percent increase in mental health patients, and a 41 percent increase in mental health staff. ###
04.16.2012	SAVE THE DATE ANNOUNCEMENT On Thursday, June 14, 2012 8:30am – 5:00pm Please Join the Congressional Military Family Caucus for a Military Family Summit at the National Infantry Museum and Soldier Center https://www.nationalinfantrymuseum.com/ 1775 Legacy Way Ft. Benning Army Base Columbus, GA Click Here to RSVP For additional information about this event please contact Chris Chon at cmfcinfo@mail.house.gov or 202-225-3631 The bi-partisan Congressional Military Family Caucus was founded in 2009 by Representatives Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) and Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (D-GA). The Caucus seeks to educate Members of the United States Congress and their staff, the Department of Defense, the Armed Forces and the public about the challenges facing our nation’s military families.
03.27.2012	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released a statement of support for the U.S. Chamber of Commerce’s Hiring Our Heroes program, a nationwide initiative which seeks to help veterans and military spouses find meaningful employment. On Wednesday, March 28, 2012, the Hiring Our Heroes initiative will host job fairs for veteran job seekers, transitioning active duty military members, Guard and Reserve members, and military and veteran spouses. The job fairs will take place in Chicago, Illinois; New York City, New York; and Fort Hood, Texas. Below in text is Congressman Bishop’s statement of support. “The U.S. Chamber of Commerce is to be commended for their outstanding efforts in helping our nation’s veterans and their spouses find suitable and sustainable employment. As a nation, we all have an obligation to ensure our veterans land on their feet when they return home and help them find good paying jobs to support their families. These heroes have risked the most for our country. They shouldn’t be coming home to unemployment checks. That’s why the U.S. Chamber of Commerce’s Hiring Our Heroes initiative is such a vitally important program.” Congressman Bishop serves as the Ranking Democrat on the Military Construction, Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies Appropriations Subcommittee. Last year, Congressman Bishop was the sponsor of the Hiring Heroes Act of 2011, legislation designed to boost employment opportunities for veterans. In 2011, provisions of the Hiring Heroes Act passed in the House and Senate by bipartisan majorities and were signed into law by President Obama. ###
03.26.2012	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement regarding the shooting death of an unarmed black teenager, Trayvon Martin, as he was walking home from a local convenience store in a gated community near Orlando, Florida: “I would like to extend my heartfelt condolences to the family, friends and classmates of Trayvon Martin. His inexplicable shooting death is an unfathomable tragedy that warrants a full and thorough investigation at both the federal and state levels. “I, like many Americans, have serious concerns with how Trayvon’s shooting death inquiry was initially handled by police officials in Sanford, Florida. It is my sincere hope that a more comprehensive and exhaustive inquiry will result from the parallel investigations being conducted by the United States Department of Justice and the special prosecutor recently appointed by Florida’s governor and attorney general. “Trayvon has been described by his family, friends and teachers as a bright and responsible young man who was an excellent role model for his peers. His premature death is extremely disturbing and I hope that in the coming weeks and months that justice is properly served in this case. “I would like to once again express my sincere condolences to Trayvon’s family and friends as they continue to mourn his passing.” ###
03.22.2012	Albany, Ga. – On Friday, March 23, 2012, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) will be a featured speaker at the Peanut Proud Educational Symposium in Blakely, Georgia. Other elected officials and representatives from the peanut industry are expected to attend and speak at the event. The symposium will take place at the George Y. Birdsong Building on the Early County Court Square which is located in Blakely, Georgia. For the last 20 years, Congressman Bishop has represented Georgia’s Second Congressional District which is the top peanut producing congressional district in America. Additionally, Congressman Bishop is a former Co-Chairman of the bipartisan Congressional Peanut Caucus. WHAT: Press invited to Peanut Educational Symposium. WHO: U.S. Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) U.S. Congressman Austin Scott (GA-08) Gary Black, Georgia Commissioner of Agriculture Jeff Johnson, President of Birdsong Peanuts Dr. Mark Manary, Founder of Project Peanut Butter Mark Moore, CEO of MANA Nutrition Sally Wells, Logistics Manager at Birdsong Peanuts WHEN: Friday, March 23, 2012, 2:00 p.m. – 4:30 p.m. WHERE: George Y. Birdson Building; Cotton Warehouse; Hwy 62 East; Blakely, Georgia ###
03.20.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) and Congressman Rick Crawford, (AR-01) will hold a lunch on Wednesday, March 21st with leaders of the American chicken industry. The lunch will serve as the inaugural event of the bipartisan Congressional Chicken Caucus. The Chicken Caucus was established to educate members of Congress and their staffs on the concerns and benefits of the U.S. chicken industry. “I look forward to co-hosting Wednesday’s luncheon and working with the Chicken Caucus Co-Chair, Congressman Rick Crawford, and other bipartisan members of the Caucus in creating additional forums where poultry producers, consumers, retailers and food inspectors can provide members of Congress with their insights on how we can better maintain and enhance our poultry industries,” said Congressman Bishop. “Congressman Bishop and I look forward to hosting the Chicken Caucus Lunch on Wednesday. It will be a great time to bring industry leaders together and learn what can be done to encourage growth and job creation,” said Crawford. “The chicken industry employs over 300,000 workers in the United States. My Arkansas district is home to chicken production and I look forward to working with caucus members to advocate for the industry.” Who: Congressman Sanford Bishop, Congressman Rick Crawford, National Chicken Council leaders, and members of the Congressional Chicken Caucus What: Inaugural Congressional Chicken Caucus Lunch When: Wednesday, March 21, 2012 from 12:00PM-1:00PM Where: H-122, U.S. Capitol U.S. chicken companies directly employ over 300,000 workers, producing products worth a wholesale value of over $45 billion dollars annually with major operations in more than 30 states. Furthermore, there are more than 40 vertically integrated companies that contract with about 25,000 family farmers to produce market-ready broilers, hatching eggs and pullets. Members of the Congressional Chicken Caucus include: Co-Chair and Founding Member, Congressman Sanford Bishop, (D-GA) Co-Chair and Founding Member, Congressman Rick Crawford, (R-AR) Congressman Larry Kissell, (D-NC) Congressman Austin Scott, (R-GA) Congressman John Carney, (D-DE) Congressman Mike McIntyre, (D-NC) Congressman Robert Hurt, (R-VA) Congressman Tom Graves, (R-GA) Congressman John Barrow, (D-GA) Congressman Dennis Cardoza, (D-CA) Congressman Jeff Denham, (R-CA) Congressman Jim Costa, (D-CA) Congressman Andy Harris, (R-MD) Congressman Phil Gingery, (R-GA) Congressman Mike Ross, (D-AR) Congressman Tim Griffin, (R-AR) Congressman Paul Broun, (R-GA) Congressman Morgan Griffith, (R-VA) Congressman Mo Brooks, (R-AL) Congressman Alan Nunnelee, (R-MS) Congressman Gregg Harper, (R-MS) Congressman Steven Palazzo, (R-MS) Congresswoman Shelley Moore Capito, (R-WV) Congressman Steve Womack, (R-AR) Congressman Billy Long, (R-MO) Congressman Jack Kingston, (R-GA) Congressman Bob Goodlatte, (R-VA) Congressman Ron Kind, (D-WI) ###
03.19.2012	Albany, GA -- Last week, Edward T. Rella, a 6-year U.S. Army veteran, officially joined the office of Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) as a Fellow through the U.S. House of Representatives’ Wounded Warrior Program. Since 2008, the U.S. House of Representatives has operated and funded the Wounded Warrior Program, offering full-time, two-year fellowships to veterans who have served on active duty since September 11, 2001, have a 30% or greater VA disability rating and less than 20 years of service. Veterans accepted into the program are employed by a House office to gain skills and work experience that will assist them as they transition to full-time, civilian employment. Mr. Rella will work out of Congressman Bishop’s Albany, Georgia office as a Caseworker where he will help facilitate responses to a wide range of requests received from constituents in Georgia’s Second Congressional District. Mr. Rella will also serve as a Field Representative, representing Congressman Bishop at meetings and events. Prior to being accepted to the Wounded Warrior Program, Mr. Rella served as an Armored Crewman in the U.S. Army and served tours of duty in Kuwait and Bosnia. During his successful military career, Mr. Rella was awarded three Army Achievement Medals, two Army Good Conduct Medals, two Armed Forces Expeditionary Medals and a National Defense Service Medal. “I’m pleased that our office has been selected to participate in the Wounded Warrior Program and we are thrilled to have Ed Rella on board,” said Congressman Bishop. “As a U.S. Army veteran, Ed honorably served our nation and we look forward to using his skill set and insights to assist in coordinating the casework inquiries of our constituents in Georgia’s Second Congressional District.” ###
03.06.2012	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) joined a bipartisan majority of his colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives in supporting H.R. 4105, legislation that protects American manufacturing jobs and exports by allowing the U.S. Department of Commerce to continue to apply countervailing duties in cases involving non-market economy nations like China and Vietnam. The measure passed in the House by a 370 to 39 vote. The Senate passed the measure earlier this week and President Obama is expected to sign the bill into law. The U.S. government began the practice of applying these duties in 2007 but a December 2011 decision by a U.S. appeals court in Washington, D.C. ruled that Congress never explicitly authorized the Commerce Department to apply these tariffs. Since 2007, these countervailing duties have protected an estimated 80,000 American jobs. “In order to create American jobs and build a sustainable economy, it is essential that Congress continues to pass vital measures such as H.R. 4105 that seek to protect our nation’s businesses and workers from unfair global trade practices,” said Congressman Sanford Bishop. “It is vitally important that we hold our global trading partners accountable and ensure that they play by fair and transparent rules.” ###
03.06.2012	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement on the passing of Congressman Donald Payne (NJ-10): “With the passing of Congressman Donald Payne, our nation has lost a dedicated public servant, devoted humanitarian and inspirational figure who campaigned tirelessly for universal adherence to human rights. “Throughout his dynamic and transformational life, Congressman Payne took on many noteworthy pursuits that sought to improve the standards of living for millions of individuals here in the United States and around the world. In being a former school teacher and pro-active Member of the House Education and Workforce Committee, he worked on multiple levels to make comprehensive and sustainable improvements to America’s educational system. “As one of our nation’s principal thought-leaders on development and diplomacy issues on the African continent, Congressman Payne aggressively worked to bring attention to the genocide in Darfur and raise awareness for poverty-stricken regions of sub-Saharan Africa. “Congressman Payne will be missed dearly by his colleagues in Congress and his constituents in New Jersey. My wife Vivian and I would like to extend our condolences and prayers to his family and friends.” ###
03.01.2012	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) joined a bipartisan majority of his colleagues in supporting H. Res. 562, a resolution that directs the Office of the Historian to compile oral histories from Members of the U.S. House of Representatives involved in the historic and annual Selma to Montgomery, Alabama, marches, as well as the civil rights movement in general. The collection of oral histories from these events will be used for public dissemination and education. The resolution passed by a 418-0 vote. On March 7, 1965, during the historic Selma to Montgomery Voting Rights March, non-violent marchers were tear-gassed, beaten, and their processional stopped by law enforcement officers as they attempted to cross the Edmond Pettus Bridge in Selma. This display of violence heaped upon non-violent protesters was captured by the news media and broadcasted worldwide. This event came to be known as “Bloody Sunday.” Outraged protesters from across the country joined the marchers for a subsequent five-day march that began in Selma on March 21, 1965, this time with state and federal law enforcement protection. “The 1965 Selma to Montgomery Voting Rights March is one of the most seminal and pivotal events in America’s civil rights movement,” said Congressman Sanford Bishop. “Therefore, it is imperative that oral histories from this March and associated events are documented and preserved in our nation’s archives.” ###
02.29.2012	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) attended a budget hearing hosted by the U.S. House of Representatives Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration (FDA), and Related Agencies. Dr. Margaret Hamburg, the Food and Drug Administration’s Commissioner for Food and Drugs, testified before the subcommittee on President Obama’s fiscal year 2013 budget request for the FDA. During the hearing, Congressman Bishop asked Commissioner Hamburg what the FDA is doing to assist tomato farmers in South Georgia adversely affected by a 2008 FDA tomato salmonella recall that was later found to be incorrect. “Dr. Hamburg, the tomato farmers in South Georgia continue to tell me that they are still reeling from the FDA’s tomato salmonella recall debacle from a couple years ago,” said Congressman Bishop. “As you’ll recall, in Georgia alone, tomato growers lost over $14 million from tomatoes grown, and in some cases harvested, that could not be sold since consumers were told to ‘stop buying tomatoes’ on the recommendation of FDA and the CDC. It is conservatively estimated growers nationwide lost over $125 million from this false indictment from our own federal government,” Congressman Bishop pointed out. “More importantly, many of the tomato producers in my district have yet to recover.” “The Food Safety Modernization Act, which was signed into law last December, authorizes payments to producers harmed by ‘future’ government decisions which ultimately prove to be incorrect or ill-founded. Can we find a way to provide some assistance to our tomato producers, given the precedent set under this legislation?” Commissioner Hamburg told Congressman Bishop and the Subcommittee that the FDA would look into the matter to see if there are any possible remedies or modes of assistance that can be offered to the farmers adversely impacted. ###
02.21.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) has co-signed a bipartisan letter from over 100 members of the U.S. House of Representatives to U.S. Postmaster General Patrick Donahoe calling on him to institute a moratorium on U.S. Postal Service (USPS) discontinuance studies, which will determine if more than 3,600 post offices and other mailing facilities should be closed. The letter cites a Postal Regulatory Commission (PRC) report that points to deep flaws with the data used by the USPS to determine which postal facilities should be considered for closure. “It would be unjust and irresponsible for the U.S. Postal Service to initiate a nationwide closure of thousands of post offices based on flawed and incomplete data analyses,” said Congressman Bishop. “The livelihoods and economic solvency of thousands of working families, seniors and small businesses in Middle and Southwest Georgia are directly linked to their accessibility and frequent utilization of their local post offices. Therefore, it is imperative that the Postmaster General halt all discontinuance studies.” The letter outlines several problems cited by the PRC's report on the USPS Retail Access Optimization Initiative (RAOI), including: Incomplete data for all Post Offices, branches and stations. Currently, the USPS does not have inclusive data for every individual office, branch or station, which makes it impossible to accurately calculate cost savings from proposed closures. Inaccurate representations of usage and revenues for all Post Offices, branches and stations. For example, revenue measurements do not include transactions such as post office box visits, exceptional dispatch for local periodicals, or alternate revenue transactions such as business mail or returns. Estimates of the distance between postal facilities that are undergoing a discontinuance study and others nearby that would be required to absorb the consumer base use geographical distance rather than actual driving distance. While the discontinuance study may address this issue, the RAOI needs to provide this information at a preliminary stage so accurate assessments can be used to inform which Post Offices, branches or stations are eligible for a discontinuance study. The low workload and revenue screen included in the RAOI disproportionately targets rural post offices for discontinuance studies. Targeting rural post offices for discontinuance studies clearly violates 39 U.S.C. 101(b), which maintains that the USPS is required to provide effective and regular postal service to rural communities. The full text of the letter follows: Patrick R. Donahoe, Postmaster General United States Postal Service 475 L'Enfant Plaza, SW Washington, DC 20260-0010 Dear Mr. Donahoe: We understand that the United States Postal Service (USPS) is facing acute financial difficulties, and as a result, has made the decision to begin the process of closing thousands of postal facilities. We share your concern about the solvency of the USPS and its future as our nation's postal service. Recently however, the Postal Regulatory Commission (PRC) reviewed the Postal Service's Retail Access Optimization Initiative (RAOI), which is being used as the basis for the possible closure of more than 3,600 post offices and other retail facilities, and found serious flaws with the analysis that call into question the USPS's current consolidations plans. We share the concerns of the PRC, and ask for you to place a moratorium on the USPS's current discontinuance studies until the USPS resolves the numerous problems the PRC identified in the RAIO. These include: Incomplete data for all Post Offices, branches and stations. Currently, the USPS does not have inclusive data for every individual office, branch or station, which makes it impossible to accurately calculate cost savings from proposed closures. Inaccurate representations of usage and revenues for all Post Offices, branches and stations. For example, revenue measurements do not include transactions such as post office box visits, exceptional dispatch for local periodicals, or alternate revenue transactions such as business mail or returns. Estimates of the distance between postal facilities that are undergoing a discontinuance study and others nearby that would be required to absorb the consumer base use geographical distance rather than actual driving distance. While the discontinuance study may address this issue, the RAOI needs to provide this information at a preliminary stage so accurate assessments can be used to inform which Post Offices, branches or stations are eligible for a discontinuance study. The low workload and revenue screen included in the RAOI disproportionately targets rural post offices for discontinuance studies. Targeting rural post offices for discontinuance studies clearly violates 39 U.S.C. 101(b), which maintains that the USPS is required to provide effective and regular postal service to rural communities. We strongly urge you to rectify these issues within the RAOI before proceeding with any discontinuance studies or closures. The closure of Post Offices, stations, and branches will undoubtedly affect communities and lead to the loss of middle class jobs. We remain dedicated to protecting our nation's postal service and ensuring that all communities are adequately served by the USPS. ###
02.17.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) joined a bipartisan majority of colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives in supporting H.R. 3630, the Temporary Payroll Tax Cut Continuation Act, legislation that seeks to extend the 2 percent payroll tax cut through the end of the year, as well as provide jobless benefits for the unemployed and preserve the reimbursement rate for doctors who serve Medicare patients. The legislation passed in the House on a 293-132 vote. “The payroll tax relief package is a widely supported, bipartisan tax initiative that will ensure the continuation of vital tax cuts for thousands of hard working American families in Middle and Southwest Georgia,” said Congressman Sanford Bishop. “Passage of this legislation ensures that taxes will not increase for 160 million working Americans and unemployment benefits will not be discontinued for displaced workers aggressively looking for new jobs. Additionally, this legislation makes certain that millions of seniors on Medicare will continue to have access to their doctors.” KEY PROVISIONS OF H.R. 3630: Payroll Tax Cut Extends the payroll tax cut for the remainder of 2012, providing a typical middle-class family take-home pay increase of $1,000 over an entire year. Unemployment Insurance Continues federal Unemployment Insurance programs through the end of 2012. Ensuring Access for Seniors to See Their Doctors: Ensures Medicare beneficiaries continue to have access to their physicians by blocking a 27.4 percent cut in Medicare physician payment rates, scheduled for March 1, 2012, and instead extends current payment rates through December 31, 2012. ###
02.01.2012	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement today in recognition of Black History Month, which is celebrated during the month of February every year to recognize contributions that African-Americans have made to American culture and society: “Black History Month brings about an excellent opportunity for us all to come together to celebrate an illuminating and inspiring history of overcoming hardship, achieving notable advancements, and establishing a positive, indelible impact on American society. “Throughout our nation’s tenured history, African-Americans have played an instrumental role in bravely defending our freedoms, admirably strengthening our democracy, and forthrightly helping to make America the best and strongest country in the world. The African-American community has greatly enriched our nation’s diverse cultural melting pot and will undoubtedly continue to play a vital role in our country’s ongoing development and continued success. “In some instances, history can be a prelude to the present and a foreshadowing of the future. Lessons learned from our past can collectively propel us all forward. It is my sincere hope that during this Black History Month, Americans will continue to reflect upon and appreciate how our nation’s inclusive cultural diversity and the contributions made by African-Americans to our great society have made and will continue to make America a more united, tolerant, and prosperous nation.” ###
01.26.2012	ALBANY, GA – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) announced today that his office has been selected to participate in the U.S. House of Representatives’ Wounded Warrior Program. Since 2008, the U.S. House of Representatives has operated and funded the Wounded Warrior Program, offering full-time, two-year fellowships to injured and disabled veterans of the Iraq and Afghanistan wars. Veterans accepted into the program are employed by a House office, usually a Member’s District Office, to gain skills and work experience that will assist them as they transition to full-time, civilian employment. “I’m pleased that our office has been selected to participate in this worthwhile program,” said Congressman Bishop. “Our region is home to thousands of proud veterans, and I value both their insight on the issues and their leadership capabilities. Currently, four veterans serve on our staff and I look forward to welcoming another veteran to our team through the Wounded Warrior Program.” The unemployment rate for veterans serving in the U.S. Armed Services since the Iraq war began has risen to more than 12 percent in the past year. More than 220,000 veterans of Iraq and Afghanistan are out of work and the unemployment rate for veterans aged 20 to 24 averaged 30 percent last year, more than double that of others the same age. Among African-American veterans age 18 to 24, the jobless rate last year was a striking 48 percent. “As a nation, we all have an obligation to ensure our veterans land on their feet when they come home and help them find good paying jobs to support their families,” said Congressman Bishop. “These heroes have risked the most for our country. They shouldn’t be coming home to unemployment checks. That’s why providing this support to our nation’s veterans is simply the right thing to do.” Wounded Warrior Fellowship Program U. S. House of Representatives Job Title: Veterans Case Worker/Field Representative Member: Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) Office Location: Albany, GA Date Needed: Immediately Job Summary: The position is for a caseworker to work in the Congressional Office to facilitate and coordinate responses to a wide range of requests received from constituents. District caseworkers also help constituents interact with administrative and government agencies by acting as facilitators, ombudsmen and, in some cases, advocates. This person will also serve as a Field Representative, representing Congressman Bishop at district meetings and events. Job Duties and Responsibilities: The incumbent for this position will serve as a facilitator between constituents and federal, state, and local agencies as necessary as a representative of Congressman Bishop. This person will be required to communicate clearly with constituents about what can and cannot be done on their behalf by the Congressman’s office. This person will be required to learn the laws, regulations and intricacies affecting a constituent’s case as well as the procedures and structure of Congressman Bishop’s office regarding casework and employee obligations, as outlined in the House of Representative’s Ethics Manual. This person will represent Congressman Bishop at district meetings on a wide-range of topics and issues and will be responsible for briefing the District Director on such meetings. Additionally, the employee will be responsible to perform other duties as assigned by the Congressman, Chief of Staff, District Director and other staff members. Requirements: This program is limited to veterans who have served on active duty since September 11, 2001, have a 30% or greater VA disability rating and less than 20 years of service. High school diploma required, some college courses preferred but not required. Professional education through the U.S. military is highly encouraged. Excellent communication and organizational skills. Recent experience with and understanding of the U.S. Military and Department of Veterans’ Affairs structure, procedures, and policies. Service-oriented, positive attitude, and strong teamwork ability. Salary: Commensurate with experience. Contact: Interested veterans should submit their resumes, a copy of their DD214 and a letter from the VA indicating that they have a 30% or greater rating to housewoundedwarriors@mail.house.gov. Do not send resumes directly to the office of Congressman Bishop. For additional information on the Wounded Warrior Program, please visit: https://cao.house.gov/wounded-warrior/available-fellowships/position-description. # # #
01.25.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) joined a bipartisan majority of his House colleagues in supporting H.R. 1022, the Buffalo Soldiers in the National Parks Study Act. Congressman Bishop is one of the bill’s 28 co-sponsors. H.R. 1022 directs the Secretary of the Interior to study alternatives for the commemoration and interpretation of the role of the Buffalo Soldiers (African-American troops who, in the late 19th century and early 20th century, came to be known as the Buffalo Soldiers) in the early years of the National Parks. The legislation authorizes: A historical assessment of the Buffalo Soldiers who served in National Parks in the years before the establishment of the National Park Service (NPS); An evaluation of the suitability and feasibility of establishing a national historic trail commemorating the route traveled by the Buffalo Soldiers from their post in the Presidio in San Francisco to the Sequoia and Yosemite National Parks and to any other National Parks where they may have served; Identification of properties that could meet criteria for listing in the National Register of Historic Places or criteria for designation as National Historic Landmarks; and An evaluation of ways of enhancing research, education, and awareness of the story of the Buffalo Soldiers' stewardship role in the National Parks. ###
01.25.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) announced that he and Congressman Rick Crawford (AR-01) have co-founded the bipartisan Congressional Chicken Caucus. The Congressional Chicken Caucus was formed to educate members of Congress about the history, contributions and concerns of the U.S. chicken industry, which emanate from a wide range of issues pertaining to food safety, trade, labor, immigration and the environment. U.S. chicken companies directly employ over 300,000 workers, producing products worth a wholesale value of over $45 billion with major operations in more than 30 states. The industry’s economic impact can be felt in several sectors of the U.S. economy and in every state. In the State of Georgia, for example, the total value of poultry production amounts to $3.9 billion – the largest in the nation. Georgia is also the number one poultry exporter in the nation, with over $555 million in annual exports. “I look forward to working with the Chicken Caucus Co-Chair, Congressman Rick Crawford, and other bipartisan members of the Caucus in creating forums where poultry producers, consumers, retailers and food inspectors can provide members of Congress with their insights on how we can better maintain and enhance our poultry industries,” said Congressman Bishop. ###
01.13.2012	Washington, DC – Earlier this week, the Department of Labor announced the availability of $20.6 million in grant funds for the Reintegration of Ex-Offenders (RExO) Adult program. The purpose of these grants is to provide an employment-centered approach to reintegration. Assistance to be provided includes job training and employment preparation, mentoring and connections to support services such as housing, substance abuse programs and mental health treatment. These grants represent the fifth generation of the RExO Adult program, which previously was called the Prisoner Re-entry Initiative and first funded in 2005. The department expects to award 17 grants of approximately $1.2 million each to organizations providing training, employment and support services to adult former inmates returning to their communities after serving time in justice facilities. The Solicitation for Grant Applications (SGA) summary can be found on the Federal Register public inspection page. The full SGA is available on the Employment and Training Administration (ETA) grants website.
01.12.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement today to commemorate the upcoming Martin Luther King, Jr. holiday on Monday, January 16, 2012. Martin Luther King, Jr. Day is a federal holiday observed on the third Monday of January each year to mark the birthday of Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. “As our nation prepares to observe the upcoming Martin Luther King, Jr. holiday, it is important that we all reflect upon and applaud the many outstanding achievements of this great American patriot and iconic humanitarian. “With his life he proved that non-violence is an effective way of perfecting social change. His leadership helped propel our nation from the dark and regressive grips of the Jim Crow era to a more enlightened period where the goals of achieving equal opportunity and respect for universal human rights are now becoming more intricately woven into our society. “The overarching message of his legacy to current generations and generations yet unborn should be that Dr. King’s achievements helped make our union a more perfect union. Moreover, his achievements are yet working to ensure the promise of our constitution to protect the rights of all Americans and embrace the goal of freedom and equality for all mankind.”
12.23.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement on the decision by the Speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives, John Boehner, and the House Republican Conference to agree to the passage of a bipartisan Senate bill that will extend the payroll tax cut, continue the distribution of unemployment benefits, prevent scheduled cuts in Medicare rates to doctors, and avert a tax increase on 160 million Americans: “I am pleased that Speaker Boehner and the House Republican Caucus have ended their irresponsible and incomprehensible protest over the passage of a widely supported, bipartisan tax relief package that will ensure the continuation of vital tax cuts for thousands of hard working American families in Middle and Southwest Georgia. “Passage of this legislation ensures that taxes will not increase for 160 million working Americans and unemployment benefits will not be discontinued for the millions of displaced workers aggressively looking for new jobs. Additionally, this legislation makes certain that 48 million seniors on Medicare will continue to have access to their doctors. "Frankly, it is time for the political gamesmanship and partisan posturing in Washington to end. As we approach the Christmas and holiday season, it is unfortunate that taxpayers and unemployed Americans were held hostage over this matter. The people of Georgia and all Americans deserve better! “It is my sincere hope and prayer that the New Year will bring a real spirit of bipartisan cooperation which puts the interests of hard working American families first and foremost in all we do.”
12.14.2011	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) offered the Motion to Recommit on the Conference Report on H.R. 1540, the National Defense Authorization Act for fiscal year 2012. The motion attempted to strike the section of the conference report regarding the determination of whether TRICARE network providers are considered subcontractors. By striking this section, the motion would guarantee that employees of TRICARE subcontractors and other defense contractors are afforded labor protections for civil rights, disabilities, and veterans. 183 Members of Congress voted in favor of the resolution. Below in text are remarks that Congressman Bishop made on the motion during general debate on H.R. 1540. “In a few minutes I will offer a Motion to Recommit that would strike a misguided provision in the conference report that would exempt TRICARE network providers from our labor protection laws. “Section 715 of this Conference Report excludes the TRICARE network health care providers from being considered subcontractors for purposes of any law. Section 715 is trying to override pending litigation and longstanding civil rights laws under Executive Order 11246 of 1965, Section 503 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 and the Vietnam Era Veterans’ Readjustment Assistance Act of 1974. “The civil rights protections contained in these laws have existed for decades and served to protect millions of workers from race, sex, and other forms of illegal discrimination. Large federal contractors are simply required to have an affirmative action plan to assure that these minority groups are not being discriminated against and the Department of Labor reviews these records. The law currently exempts employers with fewer than 50 employees and who do not meet minimum contract dollar amounts. “The health care industry employed approximately 16 million workers in 2009. Hospitals and similar entities employ tens of thousands of minorities, women, veterans, and low-wage workers – groups that historically and currently depend on basic assurances of fair treatment. The health care industry is the largest growing sector of employment in this country. “Veterans would be especially hard-hit under this change in law. “There are close to 900,000 unemployed veterans in America right now. Despite their unique experience and leadership skills, wounded warriors and veterans often struggle to find meaningful employment in the civilian sector. This is why Congress passed laws, enforced by the Department of Labor to protect the brave men and women who have served our country. “OFCCP ensures that federal contractors and subcontractors don’t discriminate against our veterans and instead, take steps to recruit, hire, train and promote qualified, protected veterans. “TRICARE providers, the very people that provide health care to our nation’s Veterans, are arguing that they should be exempt from adhering to the very regulations that were passed to protect our Veterans. This action would gravely undermine our efforts to employ Veterans. “These large government health care contractors should not be exempted from civil rights responsibilities that apply to all other similar contractors and subcontractors. “Section 715 is a brazen attempt by large health care industries to overturn pending litigation and exempt themselves from civil rights scrutiny. Congress should vote against weakening civil rights law. “I urge my colleagues to join with me in support of my motion to recommit the conference report. “I yield back the balance of my time.”
12.06.2011	Columbus, GA – On Friday, December 9, 2011, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) Regional Administrator Cassius Butts, and SBA Georgia District Director Terri Denison will co-host a small business forum at Columbus Technical College located at 928 Manchester Expressway in Columbus, Georgia. The event is open to the general public, small business owners, local entrepreneurs, employees and members of the media. The purpose of Friday’s forum is to provide local businesses, current and prospective entrepreneurs with useful information on growing their businesses, financing their ventures, and obtaining access to the federal government’s contractor market place. “Small businesses employ approximately half of our nation’s private sector employees and have generated most of America’s new jobs over the past 17 years,” said Congressman Bishop. “In order to promote growth in our economy and combat high unemployment rates, it is essential that we provide our nation’s small businesses with the information and resources they need to enhance their operations, train their workforces and produce quality services and products. By providing our local Georgia entrepreneurs with the necessary tools to start and grow their businesses, we are providing some of the resources vital to recharging and sustaining our state’s economy.” WHAT: Members of the media and general public invited to attend Small Business Forum. If you would like to attend, (and/or schedule an interview with Rep. Sanford Bishop), please RSVP with Micah Ragland at Micah.Ragland@mail.house.gov or 202-225-3631. WHO: U.S. Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) U.S. Small Business Administration Regional Administrator Cassius Butts U.S. Small Business Administration Georgia District Director Terri Denison Faye Anderson with Service Corps of Retired Executives (SCORE) Lori Auten with the University of Georgia Small Business Development Center WHEN: Friday, December 9, 2011, 10:00am – 1:30pm WHERE: Columbus Technical College – 928 Manchester Expressway; Columbus, Georgia ###
12.02.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) sent a letter to Ambassador Ron Kirk, United States Trade Representative, urging him to ensure that Georgia’s tobacco farmers are not excluded from taking advantage of trade protections offered under the Trans-Pacific Partnership Agreement (TPPA). Georgia Senators Saxby Chambliss and Johnny Isakson along with Representatives Jack Kingston, John Barrow, and Austin Scott were co-signatories to the letter. According to the United States Department of Agriculture, annual receipts for tobacco exports from Georgia exceed $47 million. Excluding U.S. tobacco exports from trade agreements could have negative consequences for Georgia’s farming communities.
11.30.2011	Washington, DC – On Thursday, December 1, 2011 (tomorrow), Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) and Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), Co-Chairs of the Congressional Military Family Caucus (CMFC), will co-host a Military Family Summit in the auditorium of the U.S. Capitol Visitor Center. The CMFC is a bipartisan congressional caucus that educates elected officials, congressional staffers, senior military leaders and the public on a wide range of unique issues that affect military families. Currently, over 80 Democrats and Republicans are members of the CMFC. The purpose of Thursday’s summit is to connect military families with Members of Congress, officials from the Department of Defense, personnel from the Department of Veterans’ Affairs, and representatives from the private sector to discuss pressing issues impacting America’s service members and their families. WHAT: Press invited to Congressional Military Family Caucus Summit. If you would like to attend, (and/or schedule an interview with Rep. Sanford Bishop), please RSVP with Micah Ragland. WHO: Rep. Sanford D. Bishop, Jr., Co-Chair of Congressional Military Family Caucus Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers, Co-Chair of Congressional Military Family Caucus Members of the Congressional Military Family Caucus Sergeant Major Bryan B. Battaglia, Senior Enlisted Advisor to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Command Sergeant Major Michael D. Schultz, Command Sergeant Major, Army Reserve Command Command Chief Master Sergeant of the Air National Guard, Command Chief Master Sergeant Christopher E. Muncy Mr. Robert L. Gordon III, Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense, Military Community and Family Policy Lieutenant General Jack C. Stultz, Chief, Army Reserve and Commanding General, U.S. Army Reserve Command Major General Randy E. Manner, Director, Joint Staff, National Guard Bureau Vice Admiral Norbert R. Ryan, Jr., USN-Ret., President, Military Officers Association of America Ms. Laura Dempsey, U.S. Chamber Commerce Representative WHEN: Tomorrow, Thursday, December 1, 2011, 8:30am – 3:00pm WHERE: U.S. Capitol Visitor Center Auditorium – Washington, DC ###
11.16.2011	Washington, D.C. – Today, provisions of the Hiring Heroes Act of 2011, which was sponsored by Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) in the U.S. House of Representatives and Senator Patty Murray in the U.S. Senate, passed in the House by an overwhelming bipartisan majority vote. Last week, the Senate passed this bipartisan initiative by a 95 to 0 vote. The legislation now goes to the President for his signature. The Hiring Heroes Act provisions were included in a comprehensive bill, H.R. 674, which also repeals a 2006 law requiring federal, state, and local governments to withhold three percent of payments that are due to government contractors. The legislation combines key components of President Obama’s American Jobs Act with Congressman Bishop’s Hiring Heroes Act and other related bipartisan initiatives designed to boost employment opportunities for veterans. The bipartisan Hiring Heroes provisions will ensure that all service members transitioning to civilian life receive the job training skills they need to find a job. The bill also offers a tax credit for companies that hire unemployed veterans, and will increase existing tax credits for companies that hire veterans with service-connected disabilities. Last month, the unemployment rate for veterans who fought in Iraq and Afghanistan was 12.1 percent versus 9.1 percent for the U.S. overall. The youngest of veterans, age 18 to 24, had a 30.4 percent unemployment rate in October, an increase from 18.4 percent a year earlier. Among African-American veterans age 18 to 24, the jobless rate is a striking 48 percent. “As a nation, we all have an obligation to ensure our veterans land on their feet when they come home and help them find good paying jobs to support their families,” said Congressman Bishop. “These heroes have risked the most for our country. They shouldn’t be coming home to unemployment checks. That’s why providing this support to our nation’s veterans is simply the right thing to do, and I look forward to President Obama signing this comprehensive, bipartisan veterans’ employment initiative into law.” KEY VETERANS PROVISIONS OF H.R. 674: Tax credit of up to $9,600 for hiring veterans with service-connected disabilities who have been looking for a job for more than six months. Makes the Transition Assistance Program (TAP)—an interagency workshop coordinated by Departments of Defense, Labor and Veterans Affairs—mandatory for service members moving on to civilian life to help them secure 21st Century jobs through resume writing workshops and career counseling. Expands education and training opportunities for older veterans by providing 100,000 unemployed veterans of past eras and wars with up to 1-year of additional Montgomery GI benefits to go towards education or training programs at community colleges or technical schools. Provides disabled veterans up to 1-year of additional Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment Benefits. Allows service members to begin the federal employment process prior to separation in order to facilitate a truly seamless transition from the military to jobs at VA, Homeland Security, or the many other federal agencies in need of our veterans. ###
11.10.2011	Washington, D.C. – Today, provisions of the Hiring Heroes Act of 2011, which was introduced and sponsored by Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) in the U.S. House of Representatives and Senator Patty Murray in the U.S. Senate, passed in the Senate by an overwhelming bipartisan majority vote of 95 to 0. The provisions were included in a comprehensive bill, H.R. 674, which also repeals a 2006 law which requires federal, state, and local governments to withhold three percent of payments that are due to government contractors. The wide-ranging legislation combines key components of President Obama’s American Jobs Act with Congressman Bishop’s Hiring Heroes Act and other related bipartisan initiatives designed to boost employment opportunities for veterans. The bipartisan Hiring Heroes provisions will ensure that all service members transitioning to civilian life receive the job training skills they need to find a job. The bill approved by the Senate today also offers a tax credit for companies that hire unemployed veterans, and will increase existing tax credits for companies that hire veterans with service-connected disabilities. “As Veterans Day 2011 approaches, we have an obligation to ensure our veterans land on their feet when they come home and help them find good paying jobs to support their families,” said Congressman Bishop. “These heroes have risked the most for our country. Providing more support to our nation’s veterans is simply the right thing to do, and I look forward to working with my colleagues in the House to pass this comprehensive veterans’ employment initiative.”
11.10.2011	Washington, D.C. – On Wednesday, November 9, 2011, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) delivered remarks at Phoebe Putney Hospital in Albany, Georgia. In his remarks, Congressman Bishop praised Phoebe’s administration, faculty and staff for the hospital’s efforts in researching new treatments and technologies to assist local service members suffering from Post Traumatic Stress Disorders (PTSD). Below is the text of Congressman Bishop’s remarks: “Good morning. I would like to thank Phoebe Putney Hospital’s administration, faculty and staff for their outstanding efforts in researching promising treatments designed to help our brave Veterans who are suffering from Post Traumatic Stress Disorders. “Three years ago, in my role as a senior Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I was able to successfully obtain 1.6 million dollars in funding for Phoebe’s medical researchers to develop more advanced treatment techniques for sufferers of PTSD. “I obtained funding for this project as a way to re-confirm our nation’s commitment to our brave service men and women who put themselves in harm’s way to defend our freedoms and safeguard our homeland. “As we celebrate Veterans Day this week, it is important that we remember our commitment to our troops extends not only to maintaining adequate salary and benefit levels for our nation’s military, but also keeping our promise to help those Veterans and military retirees in need of assistance once they return home. “This occasion provides us with an excellent opportunity to honor and help those Veterans who have served honorably in our nation’s Armed Services. “Many men and women from Southwest Georgia serving overseas right now will continue to require care for PTSD-related injuries long after their return home. “The ability to treat these injuries locally not only will ease their transition to civilian life, but also allow them to recover faster and more completely. “I commend Phoebe Putney Hospital for exploring new treatments and technologies that seek to improve the health and wellbeing of our nation’s beloved heroes. “Currently, we are all too aware of the ongoing threats against our great nation. Today, more than ever, we must remain vigilant in the defense of our people both here and abroad. We can only do that through a steadfast, sustained commitment to our men and women in uniform. “Renowned educator and theologian Benjamin Elijah Mays once said, ‘Every man and woman is born into the world to do something unique and something distinctive and if he or she does not do it, it will never be done.’ I believe it is important for us all to remember that our brave troops honorably defend our freedoms and without them it would never be done. “In closing, I would like to once again salute Phoebe for their efforts on behalf of our Veterans. They are to be commended for their research efforts and the benefits that they will bestow on our brave service members, Veterans and military retirees.” ###
10.25.2011	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) joined a bipartisan majority of his colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives in voting in favor of H.R. 2447, a resolution he cosponsored honoring the Montford Point Marines – the first African-Americans to serve in the United States Marine Corps. The resolution awards the Congressional Gold Medal, the highest civilian award in the United States, to the Montford Point Marines for their service during World War II. The resolution was approved by a 422 to 0 vote. In 1942, President Franklin D. Roosevelt established a presidential directive allowing African-Americans to be recruited into the Marine Corps. These African-American recruits were trained at a segregated compound known as Montford Point, a facility at Camp Lejeune, North Carolina. Approximately 20,000 African-Americans served in the Marine Corps during World War II. In July 1948, President Harry S. Truman issued Executive Order 9981 abolishing segregation in the U.S. Armed Forces. In September 1949, Montford Point was deactivated, ending seven years of segregation. The camp was later renamed Camp Johnson after Sgt. Maj. Gilbert "Hashmark" Johnson, one of the first African-Americans to join the Corps. “The Montford Point Marines did not just defend our nation in a time of war; through their courageous acts they helped to spearhead a movement where the goals of achieving equal opportunity and respect for universal human rights are now more intricately woven into our society,” said Congressman Bishop. “These Marines gave our nation a gift that extends beyond their heroic war service. In being their very best, both on and off the battlefield, they helped to change perspectives and broaden peoples’ horizons. They showed the entire world that when given an opportunity, people can meet any challenge and achieve any goal.” ###
10.14.2011	Washington, D.C. – Yesterday, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) voted in favor of H.R. 2250, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Regulatory Relief Act of 2011. This bipartisan bill seeks to address serious concerns raised by hospitals, power plants, universities and manufacturing companies including some in Southwest Georgia, about recently published EPA rules that establish stringent standards for emissions from facilities that rely on boilers and incinerators as power sources. The legislation passed by a 275-142 vote. Earlier this year, the EPA proposed four rules establishing new standards that would adversely affect manufacturing and industrial facilities in Southwest Georgia, including the region’s lumber companies and paper mills. These rules, the Boiler Maximum Achievable Control Technology rules, are often referred to as the “Boiler MACT” rules. Immediate compliance with these rules would impose billions of dollars in up-front costs for businesses and could put hundreds of jobs in Georgia at risk. H.R. 2250 directs the EPA to revise the Boiler MACT rules so that they are less burdensome on our domestic industries. “In order to protect Georgia’s manufacturing sectors and other boiler users, it is important that government agencies not inundate companies with onerous regulations that drastically increase costs and threaten the ability of businesses to retain workers and create new jobs,” said Congressman Bishop. “The Environmental Protection Agency Regulatory Relief Act requires the EPA to enact more balanced regulations that both protect our environment and safeguard the jobs of hardworking Georgians.” The EPA Regulatory Relief Act: • Provides the EPA with at least 15 months to re-propose and finalize an achievable Boiler Maximum Achievable Control Technology (MACT) for commercial boilers and incinerators. • Extends the compliance deadlines to allow regulated facilities at least five years to comply with any new EPA emission rules and install necessary equipment. • Directs the EPA to impose the least burdensome regulatory alternatives under the Clean Air Act, consistent with the Act and President Obama’s Executive Order 13563. • Directs the EPA to ensure that new rules are achievable by boiler, process heater and incinerator facilities located in the United States. ###
10.06.2011	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) joined a bipartisan majority of his colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives in voting for H.R. 2681, the Cement Sector Regulatory Relief Act of 2011. The legislation seeks to protect cement and construction jobs by requiring the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to issue new, more reasonable regulations that give adequate time for the industry to comply with new emission standards. More specifically, the legislation would require the EPA to revamp its regulations covering domestic cement production to make them less burdensome and delay the compliance deadline for at least five years after the effective date in the final rule. The final vote was 262 to 161. “With many of our domestic industrial sectors still slowly recovering, it is essential that Congress work in a bipartisan manner to eliminate regulations that threaten to shutdown American plants, increase construction costs and curtail the creation of new jobs,” said Congressman Bishop. “Our domestic cement industry plays an essential role in ensuring the vitality of our nation’s transportation and construction jobs. By providing this industry with relief from excessive regulations, Congress is helping to secure jobs in one of America’s most critically important manufacturing sectors.” The Cement Sector Regulatory Relief Act will save cement and construction industry jobs by: • Providing EPA with at least 15 months to re-propose and finalize an achievable Cement Maximum Achievable Control Technology (MACT) rule for cement manufacturing facilities. • Giving regulated facilities at least five years to comply with any new EPA emission rules and install necessary equipment. • Directing EPA, when developing the new rules, to consider compliance costs, energy requirements, feasibility, non-air quality health and environmental impacts, availability of equipment and potential net employment impacts. • Directing EPA to ensure that new rules are achievable by cement manufacturing facilities in the United States. ###
09.19.2011	COLUMBUS, Ga. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) was presented with the Patriot Award from the Georgia Employer Support for the Guard and Reserve (GA ESGR). The award recognizes employers for their support of National Guard and Reserve members. During the award presentation ceremony, Congressman Bishop received a Department of Defense Patriot Award Certificate and a Patriot lapel pin. Congressman Bishop was nominated for the Patriot Award by Captain Michael Bryant of the National Guard. Captain Bryant is an employee of the Office of U.S. Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02). "I am honored to receive this award. I am inspired by the patriotism of our Guard, Reserve and Active Duty forces and that inspiration motivates me in my duties as a Member of Congress to maintain our commitment to those who protect our nation’s freedoms," said Congressman Bishop. “Therefore, I will continue to push for the passage of sound and effective public-policy initiatives that will improve the quality of life of our Guard, Reserve, Active Duty service members, veterans and their families.” During the ceremony, Congressman Bishop signed a Statement of Support for the National Guard and Reserve. The Statement of Support denotes the following: We recognize, honor and enforce the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act (USERRA) Our managers and supervisors will have the tools needed to effectively manage those Guard and Reserve employees We will continually support and recognize our country’s service members and their families in peace, in crisis, and in war ESGR is a Department of Defense organization and is a staff group within the Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Reserve Affairs. It was established in 1972 to promote cooperation and understanding between Reserve component members and their civilian employers and to assist in the resolution of conflicts arising from an employee's military commitment. For more information on ESGR or to sign a statement of Support, visit the national website at www.esgr.mil. ###
09.15.2011	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement today in recognition of Hispanic Heritage Month, which runs from September 15 to October 15 and celebrates the contributions of Hispanic Americans to our country: “Hispanic Heritage Month provides us with an excellent opportunity to reflect upon the many positive contributions that one of our nation’s fastest-growing populations and largest ethnic communities has had on American society. For centuries, the Latino community has played an essential and positive role in helping America achieve a high level of success. “I am especially grateful to the thousands of Latinos who have played an instrumental role in advancing America’s national security by patriotically serving in the U.S. Armed Forces. Additionally, as the owners of over 2 million businesses, Hispanic Americans are helping to create jobs, improve our economy and expand America’s presence in the field of global commerce. “Our Latino communities have greatly enhanced America’s ethnic diversity which has helped our nation establish a foundation upon which we have improved our cultural inclusiveness, economic standing and democratic ideals. I am tremendously appreciative of the endless sacrifices those individuals in the Latino community have made in the past, are making now in the present and will make in the future to continue our nation’s traditions of excellence.” ###
09.09.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement today to commemorate the upcoming 9/11 anniversary: “I join citizens all across our great nation in bearing a heavy heart and thoughts of solemn remembrance as we approach the tenth anniversary of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks. While nearly a decade has passed since our nation experienced this horrific event, the tremendous losses that America suffered that day remain fresh on the minds of us all. “As we mourn and pay tribute to those we lost, it is also important that we reflect on how this event has drastically transformed our daily lives and reshaped our perspectives. From upgraded security at our airports to increased acts of vigilance exhibited by everyday Americans in deterring potential acts of terror, 9/11 has significantly changed aspects of the American way of life. “We are all too aware of the ongoing threats against our great nation. Today, more than ever, we must remain vigilant in the defense of our people both here and abroad. We can only do this by reflecting on this critical time in our nation’s past and educating future generations on the profound impact that this experience has had on our society. “As a Member of Congress, I will continue to rely on the spirit of those Americans we lost on 9/11 to guide me in my duties to maintain our federal government’s commitment to securing our nation and protecting our citizenry.” ###
08.31.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) today joined members of Georgia's congressional delegation in urging U.S. Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack to grant Secretarial Disaster Designations for those counties that have been adversely impacted by the state's ongoing drought. Due to high temperatures that have engulfed Georgia the last several months, sectors of the state's agricultural industry, particularly farming communities in southwest Georgia, have suffered severe economic hardships. With Secretarial Disaster Designation, Georgia farmers negatively affected by the drought in certain counties would be eligible to apply for emergency loans and other benefits provided under the existing Farm Bill. Secretarial Disaster Designation status has been requested for farmers in the following counties: Appling Burke Coffee Early Atkinson Butts Colquitt Echols Bacon Calhoun Columbia Effingham Baker Camden Cook Elbert Banks Candler Coweta Emanuel Barrow Carroll Crawford Evans Bartow Catoosa Crisp Fannin Ben Hill Charlton Dade Fayette Berrien Chatham Dawson Floyd Bibb Chattooga Decatur Forsyth Bleckley Cherokee DeKalb Franklin Brantley Clarke Dodge Fulton Brooks Clay Dooly Gilmer Bryan Clinch Dougherty Glascock Bulloch Cobb Douglas Glynn Gordon Lincoln Polk Towns Grady Long Pulaski Treutlen Gwinnett Lowndes Putnam Troup Habersham Lumpkin Quitman Turner Hall Macon Rabun Twiggs Hancock Madison Randolph Union Haralson Marion Richmond Upson Harris McDuffie Rockdale Walker Hart McIntosh Schley Walton Heard Meriwether Screven Ware Henry Miller Seminole Warren Houston Mitchell Spalding Washington Irwin Monroe Stephens Wayne Jackson Montgomery Stewart Webster Jeff Davis Morgan Sumter Wheeler Jefferson Murray Taliaferro White Jenkins Oconee Tattnall Whitfield Johnson Oglethorpe Taylor Wilcox Lamar Paulding Telfair Wilkes Lanier Peach Terrell Wilkinson Laurens Pickens Thomas Worth Lee Pierce Tift Liberty Pike Toombs
08.16.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) delivered remarks at the Blue Star Museums Joining Forces Initiative Event at the Jimmy Carter Presidential Library and Museum. Blue Star Museums is a partnership between Blue Star Families—a national nonprofit that serves military families, the National Endowment for the Arts and more than 1,300 museums across the country. The initiative is a free museum admission program available to active-duty military personnel and their immediate family members. The program runs from Memorial Day, May 30, 2011 through Labor Day, September 5, 2011. In his remarks, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. praised Blue Star Families for their efforts on behalf of America’s military families. Below is the text of Congressman Bishop’s remarks: It is always a pleasure for me to address the friends, members and supporters of Blue Star Families. This organization is one of the premier advocacy groups for military families through its unparalleled commitment to providing sustainable support networks for military households all around the world. And your outstanding services and efforts on behalf of our military communities have never been more needed than right now. Given the record number of deployments and military missions around the world, there is absolutely no doubt that the families of active duty personnel and transitioning veterans are in need of continuing support. We are grateful and fully appreciate the ongoing efforts of the President and Mrs. Obama and Vice President and Mrs. Biden as they advocate for our military families. As a Member of Congress, and as Co-Chair of the Congressional Military Family Caucus, I highly value the advice and counsel of Blue Star Families as we work together to fulfill our nation’s commitment to our troops and dependent loved ones. This means not only maintaining adequate salary and benefit levels for our active duty, guard and reserve forces but also proactively assisting military families, veterans and retirees. That’s why earlier this year I introduced in the House and Senator Patty Murray introduced in the Senate, the Hiring Heroes Act. This legislation would provide transitioning service members with additional job-training skills and make federal hiring practices more veteran-friendly. As someone who represents a large number of active duty soldiers, airmen, reservists and military retirees, I believe it is essential that we all continue to strengthen our commitment to our military families. That’s why I will always be eternally grateful for all that Blue Star Families has done and continues to do to assist military households not only in my district but throughout the world. Moreover, I salute the patriotic corporate citizens like BAE, Battlefield Telecommunications Systems, 3M and a number of others who have also joined in supporting our military families. I would urge you to lobby your corporate brothers and sisters and ask them to do the same. We are all too aware of the ongoing threats against our great nation. Today, more than ever, we must remain vigilant in the defense of our people both here and abroad. We can only do that through a steadfast commitment to our service members and to the families of our men and women in uniform. In closing, I would like to once again thank Blue Star Families for your outstanding efforts on behalf of our nation’s heroes. I look forward to continuing our work together as we advance the causes of America’s military and veterans’ families. Renowned educator and theologian Benjamin Elijah Mays once said, “Every man and woman is born into the world to do something unique and something distinctive and if he or she does not do it, it will never be done.” I believe it is important for us all to remember that our brave troops honorably defend our freedoms and without them it would never be done. In order to more properly pay homage to our nation’s heroes, it is imperative that we honor and support their families. If we join hands, we can fulfill our obligation to our military families and honor the sacrifice of our service members. Thank you and God Bless. ###
08.08.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement to pay homage to the thirty U.S. troops killed this past weekend in a helicopter crash in the eastern Wardak province of Afghanistan. It is the deadliest single incident for U.S. forces in the war in Afghanistan. “I would like to extend my sincere condolences to those families who lost loved ones in this past weekend’s deadly helicopter crash in Afghanistan. These brave servicemen made the ultimate sacrifice in defense of their country and for the advancement of freedom. “As we mourn the passing of these heroic troops, it is my hope that we all keep their families, friends and fellow service members in our thoughts and prayers.” ###
08.01.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-2), joined a bipartisan majority of his colleagues in voting in favor of the House amendment to S 365, the Budget Control Act of 2011, legislation that seeks to limit federal spending through discretionary spending caps and a balanced-budget amendment to the Constitution. This legislation provides for $917 billion in savings over 10 years, primarily through the imposition of spending caps on discretionary spending, and it allows for a $900 billion increase in the debt ceiling. Additionally, the measure requires the creation of a joint bipartisan committee to recommend an additional $1.5 trillion in deficit reduction. “Passage of today’s legislation will enable our country to continue to pay its bills, avoid a default crisis and maintain fundamental commitments to working American families,” said Congressman Bishop. “Moving forward, it is essential that Congress work in a bicameral and bipartisan fashion to address our nation’s impending economic and budgetary issues.” ###
07.20.2011	WASHINGTON – Rep. Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-2), fought to protect the benefits of U.S. Veterans by offering a Motion to Recommit amendment to H.R. 2560, the Cut, Cap, and Balance Act of 2011. Rep. Bishop’s motion stated that, “It shall not be in order in the House of Representatives or the Senate to consider any balanced budget amendment to the Constitution that could result in a reduction in veteran’s benefits.” The motion, which received bi-partisan support, was unsuccessful by a vote of 188 to 236. “The needs of America's veterans, past and future, should be one of our highest priorities,” said Rep. Bishop. “And this motion will ensure that our veterans are taken care of and they receive the benefits they have earned. “When veterans come home without limbs because they have defended our freedoms, we should not put in place Cut, Cap, and Balance legislation on their backs, the backs that are strained and damaged by the injuries they sustained fighting for this country. We should not stand idly by and watch this Congress endanger the welfare of our Nation's heroes.” Rep. Bishop’s full remarks can be read here. Last night, the House passed H.R. 2560, the Cut, Cap, and Balance Act of 2011 by a vote of 234 to 190. The bill requires Congress to pass a balanced budget amendment before increasing the federal debt ceiling. The plan faces almost certain defeat in the Senate, and the President has promised to veto such a bill if it reaches his desk. Rep. Bishop voted against the bill Opposing the legislation, Rep. Bishop said, “It cuts and it caps programs that will work for everyone and put America ahead of our competitors. It cuts and caps our ability to jump-start new industries in our country, like clean energy. It cuts and caps our ability to rebuild our economic infrastructure, like roads and bridges and ports, and to put people to work. It cuts and caps education and job training opportunities to help middle class people get and keep good jobs.” “Yes, it cuts and it caps, but it balances the cuts and the caps by protecting tax breaks for the wealthiest folks in our country, by providing subsidies for corporations that take jobs overseas away from American workers, and by cutting Medicare and Social Security benefits for our Nation's seniors--balancing it on the backs of them.” ###
07.15.2011	WASHINGTON – Rep. Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-2), sponsor of H.R. 1941, the Hiring Heroes Act of 2011, testified before the House Veterans Affairs Committee this morning. Defending the measure, Rep. Bishop said, “We have an obligation to help our veterans land on their feet when they come home and help them find good paying jobs to support their families. These are the members of our society that have risked the most for our country. Our current system, although well-intended, simply does not focus enough on our service-members transition into civilian life.” “Providing more support to our nation’s veterans is simply the right thing to do, and I look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle and passing the Hiring Heroes Act of 2011.” H.R. 1941 is the House companion bill to S. 951, the Hiring Heroes Act of 2011, which was introduced in the Senate by Senator Murray (WA). The bill will improve the provision of Federal transition, rehabilitation, vocational, and unemployment benefits to members of the Armed Forces and veterans. The bi-partisan legislation has 55 cosponsors and the support of various veterans and service member groups, including the American Legion, the Veterans of Foreign Wars, the Military Officers Association of America, and Military Families United. Information on the bill can be read here. ###
07.12.2011	WASHINGTON – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives approved H.R. 1309, the Flood Insurance Reform Act of 2011. The measure, which would reauthorize the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) for five years and make several reforms to strengthen NFIP’s financial position, passed the House by a vote of 406 to 22. Rep. Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) voted in favor of the bill. “I proudly support this legislation,” said Rep. Bishop, “which will provide improved protection for our communities in the event of a flood. In addition to many of my constituents, friends, and neighbors, I will always remember the devastating flooding in the Flint River Valley in 1994 and 1998.” “No one was prepared for the ‘500-year’ floods that devastated Southwest Georgia in 1994 and 1998. In 1994, the Flint River crested at more than forty-three feet in Albany, twenty-three square miles of Dougherty County were under water and 23,000 residents were forced to evacuate, and the community had an estimated $500 million in damages. However, no loss was as great or as tragic as the twenty-eight members of our community who died as a result of the devastating waters.” “In addition to reauthorizing the NFIP for five additional years, the legislation we passed today provides the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) with greater flexibility to set premium rates. The bill also provides improved protection for American taxpayers by requiring FEMA to use actuarial principles in determining full flood risk rates for certain properties and phases in changes to let policyholders and communities adjust. Further, the bill authorizes studies to test alternative approaches to flood insurance that are sustainable and cost-effective.” “This legislation has received support from both sides of the aisle, and I am pleased to do all I can to ensure that Southwest Georgia is protected should we ever be faced with a natural disaster similar to those of 1994 and 1998.” The full bill can be found here. ###
07.08.2011	WASHINGTON – Today, H.R. 2219, the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2012 passed the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 336 to 87. Rep. Bishop voted in favor of the bill and released the following statement. “I supported the Defense Appropriations Act for FY12 to ensure that our brave men and women in uniform have the equipment and medical care necessary to successfully defend our country. This bi-partisan bill continues our long-standing commitment to our troops and their families by including a pay raise for the troops, strengthening health care services for service members and their families, and providing $2.3 billion for family support and advocacy programs.” “It also provides $3.2 billion for Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP) vehicles, $2.8 billion for combating IED’s in Afghanistan and Iraq, and a total of $453 million for the modernization of M-1 Abrams tanks, which will protect our troops.” “Also, the bill provides proper medical care for the members of our National Guard and Reserve, including an additional $1.5 billion for National Guard and Reserve equipment; $633 million for military medical research, including $223 million for cancer research and $125 million for Psychological Health and Traumatic Brain Injury research (PH/TBI).” “Our job was to create a bill which provided our servicemen and women all the resources and tools they need to do their job, as effectively and efficiently as possible. By passing this bill today, we have done just that and I am proud to support this measure.” The summary of the bill is available here. ###
06.23.2011	Representative Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed a misguided piece of legislation to abolish the Election Assistance Commission (EAC) Congress created the commission in the aftermath of the 2000 election to upgrade voting systems across the country as part of the Help America Vote Act. The bill, H.R. 672, bill failed to pass under suspension of the rules, which require a two-thirds majority, by a vote of 235-187. "The right to vote is one of the most sacred rights we have in this country. Blood was shed and lives were lost in defense of this right, and every effort should be taken to protect it. Sadly, Congress has voted to roll back the clock and place the integrity of future elections in jeopardy. "The nation does have serious fiscal challenges and we need to take real action to get spending under control. However, closing the Election Assistance Commission, which we know saves states millions of dollars by testing voting systems and developing best practices, would be penny-wise and pound-foolish. Congress created the commission in the aftermath of the disastrous 2000 presidential election to provide our cities and states with funding to upgrade their voting machines, train poll workers and improve access for disabled voters, and now is not the time close its doors. "We have an obligation to ensure our elections are free and fair, and we should be looking for solutions that improve the EAC's efficiency, not ending it altogether. I strongly urge my colleagues in the Senate to reject this ill-advised piece of legislation." ###
06.20.2011	Nearly 100 Albany residents tried their hand at balancing the federal budget tonight during a deficit reduction workshop held by Representative Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02). The bi-partisan Concord Coalition helped organize the event at Albany Technical College, which put people into groups of five to ten and asked them to work together and act as their own budget committee. "We cannot continue financing the government on a credit card, and after the town hall meeting tonight it is clear to me that the American people want those days to come to an end," said Rep. Bishop. "The current federal debt and budget deficit is simply unsustainable, and after years of uncontrolled borrowing and spending, we need to find solutions and stop kicking the can down the road." The Concord Coalition is a nationwide, non-partisan, grassroots organization dedicated to educating the public about the causes and consequences of federal budget deficits. During similar town hall events across the country, participants used their "Principles and Priorities Workbook" to examine a variety of spending and revenue options and decide which options are the fairest and most effective way to balance the federal budget. Rep. Bishop is a member of the Blue Dog Coalition of fiscally responsible Democrats who are working to find a responsible framework to reduce spending, pay down the debt and balance the budget. With the nation focused on the huge fiscal challenges facing the United States, Rep. Bishop wanted to hear directly from local residents about their concerns and listen to their potential solutions. "Getting our fiscal house in order is a huge task that will require making hard decisions about our nation's priorities," said Rep. Bishop. "We are at a moment of truth. We must not place the burden of our fiscal irresponsibility on the backs of our children and grandchildren. I am going to take the solutions I heard tonight back to Washington, share them with my colleagues, and start working immediately to solve this crisis. ###
06.17.2011	Rep. Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) stood up for farmers and rural communities in voting against the Fiscal Year 2012 Agriculture Appropriations Act because it unfairly targeted the agriculture community. If signed into law, the bill would make draconian cuts to agriculture research programs, rural development programs and assistance for seniors and pregnant mothers who go hungry. The bill barely passed the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 217 to 203. Rep. Bishop helped lead the effort on the House floor to defeat several amendments that would have done great harm to the support programs for Georgia farmers and ranchers. Two separate amendments attempted to cut the adjusted gross income test for all farmers to $125,000 or $250,000 from the current level of $750,000 despite the comprehensive and far-reaching reforms to eligibility and limitations included in the 2008 Farm Bill. In speaking on the floor, Rep. Bishop made clear that farmers in the Southeast grow a wider variety of crops than in other regions of the country, and rely on crop specific equipment that can cost hundreds of thousands of dollars. If these farmers were limited to $125,000 or $250,000, they would not be able to service the debt for their equipment, pay other expenses and stay in business. In speaking against the amendments, Rep. Bishop said, “A stable and predictable farm policy is essential for farmers who must secure financing for annual production costs as well as incur long-term debt for equipment and land. [This] amendment will seriously undermine the confidence farmers and their lenders have in the predictability of farm policy. The result will be a reluctance to make investments in equipment and practices that increase productivity of U.S. farms and help meet world food and fiber demand.” H.R. 2112, the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2012 provides a total of $125.5 billion in both mandatory and discretionary funding for Agriculture programs. The bill cut agriculture research programs by 14%, slashed rural development programs by 14%, and cut the Commodity Supplemental Food Program, which serves predominantly low-income seniors by 21%. The bill also cut $686 million from the WIC program, and provides only $171.9 million for the Commodities Futures Trading Commission, close to 50% less than the amount requested by the Administration, to regulate the financial derivatives that many believe helped cause the global financial crisis. Rep. Bishop spoke on the House Floor in support of an amendment that would prohibit the FDA from using funds to create a rule that restricts the use of one substance or compound and requires that any decision made be based on hard science, stating, “We have cotton and peanuts and pecans in my district. We also have poultry. We have pork. We have cattle operations. The decisions of the FDA have an enormous impact on the farmers in my district at many levels. Many of the producers in my district are worried about some of the conclusions that FDA seems to have reached regarding antibiotics. They are worried about what will come next... If there is scientific evidence that shows that current practices are not in the interest of public health, my farmers will of course change their practices. But there must be clear evidence. Not unnecessary regulation.” Another amendment singled out cotton farmers while ignoring other commodities with virtually identical programs. If adopted the amendment would have done great damage to cotton farmers in the United States. The amendment tried to modify the cotton program by eliminating counter-cyclical payments, prohibiting loan deficiency payments, and prohibiting storage payments. Rep. Bishop joined his colleagues in opposition to the amendment, and during debate on the House Floor, he said, “Cotton farmers understand the current budget pressures, but expect to be a part of a debate involving all agricultural stakeholders; not to be singled out for ad hoc budget reductions and hasty policy decisions.” Rep. Bishop added, “[The] amendment compromises agricultural policy that has been vetted by authorizing committees and relied upon by growers and lenders in making business decisions into 2012. The reauthorization of the farm bill in 2012 is the proper forum to debate cotton agricultural policy, not here on this appropriations bill. We have to do what is right, and this is not the time or the place to pull the rug out from underneath our cotton farmers.” The bill now moves to the Senate for its consideration. ###
06.09.2011	Rep. Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) this week joined members of the Georgia delegation in sending a letter to Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack urging him to designate 22 Georgia counties suffering from drought as Secretarial Disaster Areas. Farmers across Georgia have suffered major crop losses because of the extreme weather, and the Georgia USDA State Emergency Board recently listed which counties are suffering from extreme drought conditions according to the U.S. Drought Monitor as of June 2, 2011. Senators Saxby Chambliss (R-GA) and Johnny Isakson (R-GA) joined Rep. Bishop, Rep. Jack Kingston (GA-01), Rep. John Barrow (GA-12), and Rep. Austin Scott (GA-08) in sending the letter to Secretary Vilsack. Farmers in Brooks, Colquitt, Lowndes and Thomas County would be eligible to apply for emergency loans and other assistance if the Secretary designates these counties as Secretarial Disaster Areas. In the letter, the members of the Georgia delegation wrote: "Over the past several months numerous counties in Georgia have experienced extreme weather conditions. Georgia's agricultural producers continue to experience drought conditions that have kept many of them from putting any seed into the ground and have left our livestock producers struggling to secure adequate feedstocks. "Although parts of Georgia have received rainfall over the past few weeks, as much as fifty-four percent of the State has been documented as suffering from Extreme Drought conditions by the U.S. Drought Monitor as of June 2, 2011." "...Therefore, we would encourage you to review and designate any eligible counties as Secretarial Disaster Areas as expeditiously as possible. It is vitally important that eligible producers suffering from disaster are able to utilize any federal assistance that may help offset further losses this early in the 2011 crop year." The full text of the letter is below. June 9, 2011 The Honorable Tom Vilsack U.S. Department of Agriculture 1400 Independence Ave., SW Washington, DC 20250 Dear Mr. Secretary: Over the past several months, numerous counties in Georgia have experienced extreme weather conditions. Georgia's agricultural producers continue to experience drought conditions that have kept many of them from putting any seed into the ground and have left our livestock producers struggling to secure adequate feedstocks. Although parts of Georgia have received rainfall over the past few weeks, as much as 54 percent of the State has been documented as suffering from Extreme Drought conditions by the U.S. Drought Monitor as of June 2, 2011. On June 3, 2011, the Honorable Nathan Deal, Governor of Georgia, sent a letter with a list of eligible counties as recommended by the Georgia USDA State Emergency Board. Therefore, we would encourage you to review and designate any eligible counties as Secretarial Disaster Areas as expeditiously as possible. It is vitally important that eligible producers suffering from disaster are able to utilize any federal assistance that may help offset further losses this early in the 2011 crop year. We look forward to working with you throughout this process to ensure that eligible producers suffering from disaster are able to utilize any available federal assistance in a timely manner. Sincerely, Sen. Saxby Chambliss Sen. Johnny Isakson Rep. Jack Kingston Rep. Sanford Bishop Rep. John Barrow Rep. Austin Scott ###
06.03.2011	Rep. Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives today voted on two resolutions regarding the American military presence in Libya. Rep. Bishop voted for H.Res. 294, authored by the Speaker of the House John Boehner (R-OH), which requires the Administration to provide the House – no later than 14 days after the resolution is adopted – information on cost, strategy, the political agenda of the competing Libyan factions and the extent of Al Qaida’s involvement in Libya. H.Res. 294 passed the House by a vote of 268-145. Rep. Bishop voted against H.Con.Res 51, authored by Rep. Dennis Kucinich (D-OH), which would require the President to remove all United States Armed Forces from Libya under the War Powers Act within 15 days. H.Con.Res 51 failed in the House by a vote of 148 to 265. “I supported the President’s initial decision to take action and prevent a humanitarian crisis in Libya. However, after more than 60 days of NATO missions in that country, Congress has a constitutional right to hear directly from the President about what our goal in Libya is and how it will be achieved. I voted for Speaker Boehner’s resolution because we owe the American people and the loved ones of our heroic service members who are carrying out this mission a clearer description of our role in Libya. “I did not support the resolution offered by Rep. Kucinich because it would undermine NATO and reduce the effectiveness and reliability of our alliance. Nevertheless, with two wars already in progress, we cannot afford another open-ended conflict in the Middle East. I urge the President to come forward with concrete details and explain to Congress about what our objectives are in Libya.” ###
06.02.2011	Rep. Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives voted on a bill to increase the federal debt ceiling without any deficit reduction measures. The bill failed to pass under a suspension of the rules which require a two-thirds majority by a vote of 97-318. "Our government should always pay its bills and meet its obligations. It would be irresponsible not to honor our debts. But years of uncontrolled borrowing and spending to the tune of over $14 trillion threatens our economic security and our national security. Much of our nation's debt is held by China, Japan and OPEC countries--our global competitors. "If we don't break our deadly addiction to financing our government on credit and don't immediately change our fiscal ways, by 2020 we will only be able to pay the interest on our debt, Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid. No defense, no education, no transportation and no infrastructure. "I voted against raising the debt limit because I believe increasing it should be tied directly to an enforceable and responsible framework to reduce spending, pay down the debt and balance the budget. The debt ceiling bill failed to do that." ###
05.31.2011	Rep. Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement celebrating Memorial Day, which Monday May 30, 2011. “This time of year our nation pauses to honor the memories of the brave men and women who sacrificed their lives defending the freedoms that make our nation the greatest on earth. It is especially important during this time of war that we take a moment to support those who have lost loved ones or have family members currently serving overseas. “Over the last few years, we made historic progress for veterans, ranging from the new GI Bill to provide returning troops with the promise of a college education to making historic investments in veterans’ health care. And this week I introduced the Hiring Heroes Act of 2011, which will improve the assistance and training available to our veterans, and encourage businesses and government contractors to hire the brave men and women who developed valuable skills while in the armed forces. We have an obligation to help our veterans land on their feet when they come home and this bill will help them find good paying jobs to support their families. “On the battlefield, the military pledges to leave no soldier behind. As a nation, we must pledge that when they return home, we leave no veteran behind. As Americans gather to pray for our fallen heroes, tell stories of their bravery in battle, and pay homage to the friends and families left behind, we should also consider how we can repay our debt of gratitude.”
05.26.2011	Rep. Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) joined his fellow co-chairs of the Congressional and Senate Military Family Caucus yesterday to unveil a crisis and suicide prevention public service announcements (PSAs) campaign for service members, military families and veterans. The PSAs feature touching comments from several celebrities reminding service members and their families that they are not alone, and that help is available. "As our troops have come home from Iraq and Afghanistan, we have seen a dramatic rise in cases of PTSD and the number of suicides," said Rep. Bishop. "But the reality is, we have an obligation to care for those men and women who volunteered to defend our country, and this campaign is a great step towards reducing the number of suicides and providing the help our troops and their families and our veterans deserve." Blue Star Families and The Creative Coalition, in partnership with the Tragedy Assistance Program for Survivors (TAPS) and Health Net, Inc. came together to create the public service announcements. The PSAs, titled "I Don't Know What It's Like," makes clear that while the general public cannot understand what it is like to serve abroad or stay home after a loved one deploys, a grateful nation is here for them. The PSAs were filmed during the Sundance Film Festival and Academy Awards earlier this year. ###
05.25.2011	Rep. Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (D-GA), the Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies released the following statement after the House Appropriations Committee approved the FY 2012 Military Construction, Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies Subcommittee bill by voice vote. The bill now moves to the full House of Representatives for consideration. “The House Appropriations Committee has a strong history of working across party lines to provide our military with the tools it needs to defend our country. And we have always provided the resources to care for our service members, their families and our veterans. There was bipartisan consensus on the key elements of this bill, and for the first time in several years, we were able to find real savings without compromising resources for benefits, care and services. “I was pleased that the bill included more than $90 million for construction at Fort Benning, including critical funding to replace McBride Elementary School and a new trainee barracks complex. I was also pleased that the bill restated the subcommittee’s support for joint health care facilities between the Department of Defense (DoD) and the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), and that it directed GAO to assess the benefits and potential savings of joint DoD/VA health care facilities across the country. “We have huge fiscal challenges but this bill is proof that Democrats and Republicans can come together and cut spending in a smart and effective way. I was pleased that the committee voted to block a controversial effort to repeal the Davis-Bacon provisions from the bill. The Davis Bacon Act requires that workers on federal construction projects of more than $2,000 be paid no less than the wages paid in the community for similar work. Comparative studies have shown that removing this requirement for local prevailing wages would not save money. Unfortunately, the inclusion of language to limit project labor agreements could complicate final passage of this bill. I look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to work out these differences and produce a bipartisan bill that will provide the support that our troops, our veterans and their families deserve.” Funding in the Military Construction, Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies fiscal year 2012 appropriation bill totals $142 billion and is $1.2 billion below the FY 2012 budget request. The bill includes $72.5 billion in discretionary spending and $69.5 billion in mandatory spending. Specifically, the bill includes 14.0 billion, for the Military Construction programs, $58.3 billion is discretionary funding for Veteran Affairs, $69.5 billion for mandatory VA programs and $205.4 million to fund the Related Agencies under the committee’s jurisdiction. The related agencies funded in this bill include the American Battle Monuments Commission, the United States Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims, Army Cemeterial Expenses (including Arlington National Cemetery) and the Armed Forces Retirement Home. ###
05.24.2011	Rep. Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (D-GA) will join fellow co-chairs of the Senate and Congressional Military Family Caucus to unveil a crisis and suicide prevention PSA campaign for military families, veterans and service members. The event will take place on Wednesday, May 25, 2011 at 12:00 PM in the CVC Auditorium. Rep. Bishop, the Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies, will be joined by Rep. Cathy McMorris-Rodgers (R-WA), Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) and Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) to unveil the PSAs. Blue Star Families and The Creative Coalition, in partnership with the Tragedy Assistance Program for Survivors (TAPS) and Health Net, Inc came together to create the PSAs. The new public service announcements are directed by actor Tim Daly and feature celebrities reminding service members and their families that they are not alone, and that help is available. For more information and to watch the PSAs, visit www.bluestarfam.org/preventsuicide. WHAT: Congressional Military Family Caucus/ Blue Star Families Suicide Prevention PSA Rollout WHO: Rep. Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (D-GA) Rep. Cathy McMorris-Rodgers (R-WA) Sen. Barbara Boxer (D-CA) Sen. Richard Burr (R-NC) Noeleen Tillman, Blue Star Families Mark Sobel, The Creative Coalition WHERE: CVC Auditorium The Capitol Washington, DC 20515 WHEN: Wednesday, May 25, 2011, 12:00 – 1:00 PM. ###
05.24.2011	Rep. Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), the Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies, introduced bi-partisan legislation to help veterans transition from military service and find a job. With nearly one-in-four veterans between the ages of 20 and 24 unemployed, the legislation would improve much needed training programs for separating service members, and modify federal hiring practices to encourage the hiring of veterans after their service is complete. “Our troops have gone above and beyond the call of duty to defend our country, but far too often, when they return home they cannot find a job to help make ends meet,” said Rep. Bishop. “This legislation will dramatically improve the assistance and training available to our veterans, and encourage businesses and government contractors to hire the brave men and women who developed valuable skills while in the armed forces.” The Hiring Heroes Act of 2011 that Rep. Bishop introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives yesterday is a companion to S. 951 introduced by Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) on May 12, 2011. Rep. Norm Dicks (WA-06), Rep. C.W. Bill Young (FL-10), Rep. Bob Filner (CA-51), Rep. Jerry McNerney (CA-11) and Rep. Roscoe Bartlett (MD-06) joined Rep. Bishop as original co-sponsors of the bill. Along with modernizing federal hiring practices, the bill makes participation in the Transition Assistance Program mandatory for separating service members. It requires that each service member receive an individualized assessment of jobs that they may qualify for when they participate in the Transition Assistance program, and requires the Department of Labor (DOL) to work with each veteran to determine whether they have a job or if they need more assistance. The Hiring Heroes Act creates new programs aimed at improving the transition from service member to civilian life. It would create a competitive grant program for nonprofit organizations that provide mentoring services and job training that lead directly to job placements. The bill also aims to break down barriers between the Department of Defense (DOD), DOL, and the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) and makes it easier for service members to smoothly transition to veteran status. “As the war in Iraq comes to an end and we begin to draw down our forces in Afghanistan, even more veterans will be looking for work,” said Rep. Bishop. “We have an obligation to help our veterans land on their feet when they come home and help them find good paying jobs to support their families. I look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle in the House and the Senate to pass the Hiring Heroes Act and provide more support to our veterans.” “I introduced the Hiring Heroes Act in the Senate because I’ve heard first-hand from veterans that return home with unique technical and leadership skills and can’t find jobs,” said Senator Patty Murray, Chairman of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee. “This landmark legislation will require job skills training for every service member as they leave the military, and will require the Department of Labor to review what military skills and training should be transferable into the civilian sector. These are real, substantive steps to put our veterans to work that come at a pivotal time for our economic recovery and our veterans. I’m hopeful that this bill, which has now been introduced in both houses of Congress and enjoys support from both Republicans and Democrats, can move forward quickly to help our veterans find jobs.” “Veterans have earned the thanks of a grateful nation when they return home, and employers can benefit from the unique skills, sense of duty, and professionalism veterans possess,” said Rep. McNerney. “The Hiring Heroes Act takes major steps to help our men and women in uniform obtain good jobs when they come home. I look forward to working with a bipartisan group of my colleagues to move this bill forward.” ### To view a fact sheet of the bill, click here.
05.12.2011	WASHINGTON – Rep. Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) today hailed the United States Department of Agriculture's (USDA) decision to award rural development funds to the Fort Valley Utility Commission for water and waste disposal projects. The projects will improve the city's infrastructure by upgrading the water and sewage facilities in and around the Fort Valley State University (FVSU) campus. "For far too long the infrastructure in rural areas has been overlooked. As a result, many of our communities have not received the investment needed to attract new businesses and grow their economies," said Rep. Bishop. "I am happy that USDA has approved these rural development funds, which will enhance the water treatment facilities in the Fort Valley area and encourage future investment in Peach County." USDA Rural Development approved a $2,387,000 loan and a $1,848,000 grant to the Fort Valley Utility Commission. The funds will be used to add a 500,000 gallon elevated storage tank on the FVSU campus, a new well and a chemical feed building. The well and tank will be tied to the Fort Valley University and City's system by installing a 12'' water main. Also proposed is the replacement of a 12" water main on University Boulevard. In 2009, Rep. Bishop secured funding for a wastewater reclamation project in Fort Valley. Throughout his career, he has worked extensively with USDA Rural Development to ensure that rural communities in Southwest Georgia receive their fair share of Federal dollars. USDA gears these rural development projects towards improving the economy and way of life for rural communities across the country. "In a country as great as ours, our rural areas should have access to a safe and reliable water supply," said Rep. Bishop. "We have an obligation to improve the water infrastructure in our rural communities, and I applaud USDA for recognizing the need in Fort Valley and for funding these critical projects." ###
05.10.2011	WASHINGTON – Military Spouse Magazine recognized Rep. Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (D-GA) for his work on behalf of military families during their annual Military Spouse of the Year Luncheon. Rep. Bishop received the Legislative Impact Award for his work in Congress on behalf of military families and his commitment to improving the lives of those serving in the Armed Forces. "It is an honor to receive this award from Military Spouse Magazine, a great publication which advocates for and highlights the needs of our military spouses," said Rep. Bishop. "This award will give me even more determination to continue fighting for our service members, their spouses, and their families." Rep. Bishop co-chairs the Congressional Military Family Caucus with Rep. Cathy McMorris-Rodgers (R-WA) who also received a Legislative Impact award. During the ceremony, Military Spouse Magazine presented Mrs. Bianca Strzalkowski of Ft. Bragg, North Carolina with the Military Spouse of the Year Award. The award ceremony recognizes the sacrifice of the 1.1 million military spouses who provide unwavering support to the armed services. Rep. Bishop has been a tireless supporter of military families throughout his career. Along with co-chairing the Congressional Military Family Caucus, he also serves as the Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies, which has held several hearings on quality of life issues facing military families. ###
05.02.2011	WASHINGTON – Rep. Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement today after President Barack Obama announced that American forces killed Osama Bin Laden in Pakistan. "We all remember where we were on September 11th when Al Qaeda attacked our country, but today we have finally brought the mastermind of those terrorist attacks to justice. I congratulate President Obama, our military and the intelligence community for conducting a successful mission to kill Osama Bin Laden in Pakistan. While this is a great moment in the war on terror, the threat from those who wish to harm our country will continue, and we must remain vigilant." ###
04.29.2011	Fort Benning, GA – Rep. Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) joined distinguished members of the military today at Fort Benning to break ground on the new Martin Army Community Hospital. Rep. Bishop took part in the ceremony with Colonel Koji Nishimura, the commander of Martin Army Community Hospital; Lieutenant General Eric Schoomaker, the Surgeon General of the Army; Brigadier General Joseph Caravalho, the Commander of the Southern Regional Command; and Mr. Shannon Hines, the Vice President of Turner Construction. The new hospital is scheduled to open in 2014. "If we ask our service members to put themselves in harm's way to defend our country, we have an obligation to provide them with the best resources and facilities when they return home," said Rep. Bishop. "The new Martin Army Community Hospital will provide state-of-the-art medical care to our soldiers, their families and our veterans at Fort Benning, and I was proud to help secure the funding for the construction of this new facility." Rep. Bishop helped secured $350 million to fund the construction of a new Martin Army Community Hospital in the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations bill of 2008. Named for the late Major General Joseph I. Martin, Medical Corps, the original Martin Army hospital opened in 1958. As the demand for outpatient health care grew, a 59,000 square foot ambulatory care wing was added in 1975, and the emergency room underwent a major renovation in 1990. However, conditions at the hospital could not be improved without a full-scale reconstruction. The new facility will be 745,000 gross square feet, nearly double the size of the current Martin Army hospital. It will contain 70 inpatient beds, four Acuity Adaptable ICU's, four Step Down ICU's, 24 Medical Surgical Beds, 14 Mother Baby Beds, and 24 Psychiatric Beds. In addition, the new ICU will contain eight rooms with the capability to expand up to 24 Acuity Adjustable Beds. Rep. Bishop has also repeatedly called for making the new Martin Army Community Hospital a joint facility with the Department of Veterans Affairs. On several occasions, he has pressed the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, General Eric Shinseki, and the Department of Defense to determine whether establishing a joint facility at Fort Benning is possible. "As Fort Benning adds thousands of personnel, dependent families, and departments in the BRAC process, it is essential that we have a great medical facility here at Martin Army Community Hospital," said Rep. Bishop. "I hope that the new Martin Army Community Hospital will be a joint facility between DoD and the VA, and I look forward to the day when the new facility provides the high-quality care our soldiers, their families and our veterans deserve." ###
04.26.2011	Donalsonville, GA – Rep. Sanford D. Bishop Jr. (GA-02) toured downtown Donalsonville, Georgia today to see the damage caused by severe storms and subsequent fires earlier this month. Donalsonville Mayor Joe Burke, City Manager Marty Shingler, and business owners affected by the storm, joined Rep. Bishop on the tour. At least seven businesses suffered damage after lightning struck Black Electronics on Cherry Street and spread through half of a city block in downtown Donalsonville. Seven people died in Georgia because of the storm, which caused major damage across the southeast. "My heart goes out to all of those who were affected by the damage these storms caused in Donalsonville," said Rep. Bishop. "You cannot appreciate how severe the damage was until you see it with your own eyes, but I am not surprised that the community has rallied around one another. I hope that the businesses which were affected can rebuild quickly, and I intend to work closely with Mayor Burke to secure the federal assistance downtown Donalsonville needs to come back even stronger." Individuals affected by the storm can seek federal assistance by going to the website www.disasterassitance.gov/federal-agency to find a list of federal agencies that provide disaster relief. Those in need of assistance can also contact James Crozier in Rep. Bishop's office at (229) 439-8067. ###
04.15.2011	WASHINGTON – Rep. Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) today released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed a partisan budget by a vote of 235 to 193. "The nation's budget is a statement about our priorities and our values. With the country at a crossroad, we have to make very difficult choices about how we reduce our deficit and bring down our debt. I voted against the Republican budget because it makes the wrong choices, and fails to sufficiently reduce the deficit, grow the economy or create jobs. "The bill that passed the House today would end Medicare as we know it and replace it with a voucher system which could force seniors to negotiate with insurance companies and pay more money out of their pockets. The GOP budget also turns Medicaid into a block grant program, placing an even greater burden on state and local governments without reducing costs. Instead of saddling America's seniors with higher health care costs and threatening their way of life, we need to find solutions that preserve these vital programs. "If we are going to solve our fiscal challenges, we must get past the rigid ideological differences that have prevented us from finding effective bipartisan solutions that grow our economy and reduce government spending. I am committed to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to find ways to strengthen our economy, invest in our future, and responsibly reduce our debt." ###
04.08.2011	WASHINGTON – Rep. Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement after the House passed a short-term Continuing Resolution (CR) to prevent a government shutdown. H.R 1363, the Department of Defense and Further Additional Continuing Appropriations Act, 2011 passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 348 to 70, and the United States Senate passed the bill by voice vote. President Obama must now sign the bill into law. "I am very pleased that both sides of the aisle were able to come to an agreement, preventing a government shutdown and making the largest annual domestic spending cut in our history. It was not in anyone's interest to shut down the government, and failing to pass this legislation would have jeopardized our economic recovery and devastated millions of Americans household budgets. "In the next few days, I hope that Democrats and Republicans are able to finish a deal to fund the government for the rest of FY 2011, and provide some certainty to the American people. Going forward, I am committed to working with my colleagues to find a long-term solution that strengthens our economy, invests in our future, and responsibly reduces our deficit and debt." ###
04.07.2011	WASHINGTON – Rep. Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed a short-term Continuing Resolution (CR) to extend funding for the federal government for another week until a permanent bill for FY 2011 is completed. H.R. 1363, the Department of Defense and Further Additional Continuing Appropriations Act, 2011, passed the House by a vote of 247-181 and now moves to the Senate for consideration. “I understand the service and sacrifice made every day by the men and women of our armed forces and their families. They pay the price for the freedoms that all Americans enjoy. “And while the CR contains unwise and harmful cuts and riders that give me great concern, I voted for this bill to make sure our military men and women in harm’s way will not have to worry about missing a paycheck or a mortgage payment because Congress allowed their federal government to shut down.” ###
04.01.2011	WASHINGTON – Rep. Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement after the Department of Labor released the March jobs report indicating that the economy added 216,000 jobs last month and the national unemployment rate dropped to 8.8%, the lowest level in two years. Earlier this week, the Georgia Department of Labor announced that the state unemployment rate in February edged down to 10.2% from a revised 10.3% in January. "The March jobs report is another indication that our economy is moving in the right direction. The addition of 230,000 private sector jobs – the 13th consecutive month of private sector job growth – and a drop in the national unemployment rate for the fourth straight month is a direct result of the steps Democrats took to reduce taxes on small businesses and increase incentives for business investment. "While it's clear our economy has made some progress, the unemployment rate nationally, and in Georgia, is still too high. We have a long way to go before our economy fully recovers, and Democrats and Republicans must come together and find ways to reduce spending without sacrificing critical investments in education, infrastructure, and agriculture research that we know create jobs and grow our economy." ###
03.31.2011	WASHINGTON – Rep. Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) today voted to eliminate a costly and duplicative permitting requirement for the application of pesticides that would hurt local farmers and further stretch state budgets. The House passed H.R. 872, the Reducing Regulatory Burdens Act of 2011 by a vote of 292 to 130. If signed into law, the bill would overturn the misguided court decision in National Cotton Council v. EPA. "Over the last few years, the EPA has slowly but surely stepped up its regulation of our agriculture sector, but this action by Congress should help restore some balance in the regulatory process," said Rep. Bishop. "Our farmers cannot afford to meet these burdensome requirements that would raise costs and further strain state budgets trying to comply with the requirement. I am glad Congress acted to solve this problem." Rep. Bishop co-sponsored the bill, which amends the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodentcide Act (FIFRA) of 1947. If passed, the bill would prohibit the EPA or state governments from requiring farmers and small businesses to file an additional permit for pesticides already authorized for sale by the FIFRA. The Georgia Cotton Commission, Georgia Peanut Commission, Georgia Farm Bureau and American Farm Bureau all support the bill. The bill also amends the Water Pollution Control Act to prohibit the EPA and states from requiring permits for a pesticide or the residue resulting from the use of a pesticide registered under FIFRA. In 2009, the 6th Circuit Court of Appeals ruled that the EPA could regulate these pesticides. The bill now moves to the Senate for consideration. ###
03.28.2011	WASHINGTON – Rep. Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (D-GA), the Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies, released the following statement after President Barack Obama delivered a speech to the nation on Libya. "Tonight President Obama offered a clear explanation of why military action in Libya was essential. I support the President for taking action to prevent a humanitarian crisis, and I applaud our servicemembers who put themselves in harms way to carry out this mission. An international coalition including the United States, NATO and the Arab League all agreed that we could not sit on our hands while Qaddafi massacred his own people, and I am glad that this mission has been successful. "NATO has already taken over responsibility for enforcing the 'no fly zone,' and I am pleased that the U.S. will hand over responsibility for protecting the Libyan people to NATO on Wednesday. I hope that President Obama will continue to consult and inform Congress as the mission in Libya progresses." ###
03.23.2011	Columbus, GA – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) today toured the Pratt & Whitney Columbus Engine Center to get a first hand account of the plant’s operation, and how it impacts the Columbus economy. Pratt & Whitney recently announced that as part of the expanding operations at the plant, they will add more than 180 high-paying jobs in Columbus. “Creating jobs is a crucial part of our economic recovery, and while we still have a ways to go, it is important that we continue to create the conditions for growth and development in our community,” said Congressman Bishop. “The expansion at Pratt & Whitney will bring high-paying jobs to Columbus and help boost our local economy. I was very excited by what I saw on my tour, and I am committed to doing whatever I can to help the plant continue to expand.” While touring the plant, Congressman Bishop received an update on the status of the expansion and met employees working at the facility. Pratt & Whitney has more than 2000 employees in Georgia at six major facilities. Nearly 1,000 employees work at the Columbus Engine Center, which has been in operation for more than 25 years and is spread out over 340 acres in Columbus. The planned expansion will create more than 180 jobs at the facility to overhaul military aircraft engines. The expansion includes a refit of the current facility, additional tooling, new equipment and an upgrade to the facility's test cell to accommodate Pratt & Whitney's F117 engine. Last month, Rep. Sanford Bishop fought for and supported an amendment to a House Continuing Resolution that eliminated funding for an additional engine for the Joint Strike Fighter. Had the amendment failed Pratt & Whitney may have been forced to cancel the planned expansion in Columbus. Secretary of Defense Robert Gates has repeatedly called on Congress to cancel the additional funding for a second engine because “the military does not need it.” “Our nation’s first, second, and third priority must be job creation,” said Congressman Bishop. “As we look to reduce our budget deficit, we should focus on the projects that create jobs in a smart and efficient way. I look forward to working with Pratt & Whitney as the plant expands, and I am committed to finding new opportunities to invest in Columbus and grow our economy.” ###
03.14.2011	WASHINGTON - Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement on the death of Talbot County Sheriff Herman Howard. Prior to being elected Sheriff of Talbot County in 2008, Howard served as the Deputy Sheriff and county road superintendent of Talbot County. "We are all shocked and saddened by the death of Talbot County Sheriff Herman Howard. He was a fine public servant and a dedicated law enforcement leader whose life reflected his commitment to serving and protecting his county. As the first African American elected sheriff in Talbot County, he broke barriers and built bridges of friendship and cooperation. He will be truly missed. Our thoughts and prayers go out to his family at this difficult time of loss.” ###
03.04.2011	WASHINGTON – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement after the Labor Department released the February Jobs Report, showing that the economy added 192,000 jobs last month and the unemployment rate dropped to 8.9%, the lowest since April 2009. On Thursday, the Georgia Department of Labor reported that Georgia’s unemployment rate rose two-tenths of a percent in January to 10.4%. “The latest jobs report is further indication that while the national economy appears to be moving in the right direction. Georgia and the 2nd Congressional District would be worse off without the bold action we took to prevent another Great Depression, but clearly, there is much work left to do before our recovery is complete. "Our first, second and third priority must be job creation and strong economic growth, not ideological battles over wedge issues that distract us from what our number one priority should be. The 12 consecutive months of private sector job growth is encouraging, and going forward, we need to ensure that our small businesses, rural areas and our minority communities have access to the tools and resources they need to create jobs and grow our local economy. "I hope my colleagues on both sides of the aisle will come together and start focusing on job creation for all Americans. We need to build on this momentum and ensure that this recovery touches every community.” ###
03.03.2011	WASHINGTON – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed legislation to repeal a burdensome provision of the Affordable Care Act by a vote of 314 to 112. H.R. 4, the Comprehensive 1099 Taxpayer Protection and Repayment of Exchange Subsidy Overpayments Act of 2011, would rescind the 1099 reporting requirement that forces small businesses to file a 1099 form with the IRS for payments of more than $600 that they make to any vendor during a tax year, beginning in 2012. “I have heard complaints from farmers and small business owners across the Second Congressional District who believe that having to file this onerous 1099 form is an unnecessary bureaucratic nightmare that needs to be repealed. Small businesses and farmers are the engines that drive our nation’s economy, and they should focus on creating jobs, not filling out paperwork. Now is the time to reduce the obstacles for small business growth, not increase them, and repealing this provision is a good place to start. “However, I have grave concerns about the offset House Republicans attached to this legislation. It would raise taxes on middle-income families who simply get a new job, work extra shifts, or receive a bonus for good performance. It is wrong to pay for this repeal by placing a greater burden on working families trying to purchase health care, and we have to find a better way. “I voted to move this legislation forward to prevent this requirement from going into effect. I am confident that the House, the Senate, and the Administration can come together and find an alternative solution that does not hurt middle-income Americans.” ###
03.02.2011	Arlington, VA – The Council for Agriculture Research, Extension and Teaching (CARET) awarded Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) the Congressional Champions Award for his years of tireless service on behalf of America's land-grant universities. Congressman Bishop has been an advocate for land-grant universities since he came to Congress and secured millions of dollars for agriculture research in Georgia. “I was honored to receive this award because I believe our land-grant colleges are essential to our national prosperity,” said Congressman Bishop. “Their research, extension and training programs are why we can grow the best food and fiber on the planet, and I have seen the investments pay off in Georgia’s agriculture sector.” At the 2011 Awards reception, CARET also recognized Senator Olympia Snowe (R-ME) for her work on behalf of land-grant universities. The national grassroots organization is affiliated with the Association of Public and Land-grant Universities (APLU) and is composed of volunteer representatives from the 50 states, the US territories, and the District of Columbia. CARET's mission is to advocate for greater national support and understanding of the land-grant university system's food and agricultural research, extension and teaching programs that enhance the quality of life for all people. However, as the government focuses on balancing the budget, funding for the programs CARET supports has come under increased scrutiny. “I believe our country must get its fiscal house in order, but reducing or cancelling funding for these essential programs would be detrimental to our agriculture sector, and our country,” said Congressman Bishop. “CARET has been a tremendous partner is advocating for critical research and development resources, and helped educate many of my colleagues, and the nation, about the important role land-grant universities play. I look forward to standing side-by-side with them in the coming days.” ###
03.02.2011	WASHINGTON – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), the Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies, released the following statement after General James N. Mattis testified at the first subcommittee hearing in the 112th Congress. General Mattis, the combatant commander for U.S. Central Command (CENTCOM) was on Capitol Hill to discuss the Fiscal Year 2012 budget request submitted to Congress. CENTCOM is a regional unified combatant command, with forces currently deployed primarily in Iraq and Afghanistan in combat roles. It also has responsibility for most of the Middle East and Central Asia. “I was pleased to have General Mattis before our subcommittee this afternoon and hear directly from him about what CENTCOM needs to finish winding down operations in Iraq, and start to transition responsibilities to the Afghan people. After hearing from General Mattis, it is clear that while our drawdown from Iraq is proceeding on schedule, we still have serious challenges in Afghanistan, and other parts of the Middle East remain unstable. “The issues before CENTCOM are difficult, but our committee must do all it can to help General Mattis deal with these obstacles efficiently and effectively. As Ranking Member, I am committed to working with Chairman Culberson and my colleagues on the subcommittee to help them get the job done.” ###
02.25.2011	Columbus, GA – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) held a town hall meeting at Fort Benning today with service members and their families who highlighted a range of issues including military housing, education, and rising health care costs. As the new Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies, Rep. Bishop is looking for solutions to ease the burden of wartime service, and improve the support system for military families. “Hearing the concerns and issues directly from service members and their family members at Fort Benning is extremely valuable, and will help me do my job in Washington,” said Congressman Bishop. “I am very grateful to those who offered their candid assessment of the areas where we can improve the services and programs we provide to them, and I plan to share the details of what I heard with my colleagues in Washington. Rep. Bishop co-chairs of the Congressional Military Family Caucus with Rep. Cathy McMorris-Rodgers (R-WA), whose mission is to educate Members of Congress on the challenges that military families face on a daily basis, and ensure that service members and their families receive adequate housing, facilities, and the overall quality of life support that they deserve. The town hall meeting at Fort Benning was the second in a series of town hall meetings Congressman Bishop has held this year. Earlier this month, he held an event at the Marine Corps Logistics Base in Albany, GA and heard similar concerns from the Marines and their families who rotate to bases across the country and abroad. Fort Benning has been home to the Infantry since 1918, and Rep. Bishop played a large role in moving the Army Maneuver Center to Fort Benning as part of the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) process. Many of the troops and family members in attendance have had their loved ones deploy to Iraq and Afghanistan, and understand the challenges of serving during wartime. “Our troops who put themselves in harm’s way are the finest public servants in the country, and while they have sacrificed to protect the freedoms we cherish, so too have their spouses and children,” said Congressman Bishop. “They deserve the support and resources to give them some peace of mind and stability here at home. Hearing from them today will allow me to be a more effective advocate for their needs in Washington.” ###
02.23.2011	Atlanta, GA – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) and Georgia Agriculture Commissioner Gary Black today discussed the future of Georgia’s agriculture sector during a meeting at the Georgia Department of Agriculture office in Atlanta, Georgia. At the meeting, both men highlighted what effect the looming budgetary pressures could have on Georgia Agriculture and pledged to work together on behalf of Georgia’s farmers. “I was very pleased to sit down with Commissioner Black this morning and talk about the range of issues facing Georgia’s agriculture sector, and how we can work together,” said Congressman Bishop. “We both recognize that the budgetary constraints facing our country will require the country to make strategic choices about our priorities, but we are committed to working across party lines to defend those programs that are absolutely essential to Georgia agriculture.” Last week, the House of Representatives passed a Continuing Resolution (CR) for the remainder of the fiscal year, which if signed into law, would make severe cuts to programs that fund conservation, rural development and innovative research programs across Georgia that have created jobs and strengthened Georgia’s agriculture sector. The large cuts to agriculture programs in the bill were second only to transportation and infrastructure programs in size, and totaled $5.2 billion, 22% less than 2010 levels. The proposed cuts in the CR are just the opening salvo in the fight over cuts to Agriculture funding, and a handful of Members of Congress and the President have proposed deeper cuts to Agriculture funding in the 2012 budget. These cuts, in addition to the upcoming reauthorization of the farm bill in 2012, could dramatically alter the nation’s agriculture production and Georgia’s ability to compete in a global economy. Given the constraints on our federal budget, our nation has to make strategic choices about what we can and cannot afford,” said Congressman Bishop. “We both believe that the government must act in a fiscally responsible way and find efficiencies where it can. However, we are committed to working across party lines to defend Georgia’s agriculture community. We must do everything necessary to ensure that our country establishes the right priorities and maintains the programs that Georgia’s farmers need to continue leading America’s agriculture sector.” ###
02.15.2011	Washington, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-2) released the following statement today after President Barack Obama awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom to Rep. John Lewis (GA-5). Rep. Lewis was among 15 individuals to receive the highest civilian honor in the United States at the White House today for “an especially meritorious contribution to the security or national interests of the United States, world peace, cultural or other significant public or private endeavors." “The Medal of Freedom is our nation’s highest civilian honor, going only to those individuals who have made our country and our world a better place. I cannot think of anyone more deserving of this high distinction than my good friend Congressman Lewis, and I congratulate him for receiving this award. “As a leader in the civil rights movement, his courage and determination to stand up for justice and equality in the face of untold violence and bigotry made our country a more perfect union. The conscience of Congress, John Lewis has represented the best of America throughout his life, and it is an honor to have known him for more than 40 years and serve alongside him in Congress. I hope that generations to come will not forget his tremendous service to our country.” ###
02.14.2011	Washington, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-2) today released the following statement after President Obama unveiled his budget request for fiscal year 2012. “As millions of Americans tighten their belts and make tough choices in these difficult economic times, they expect the federal government to do the same. The proposed budget reduces the deficit and is a step towards getting our fiscal house in order, but tackling long-term budget deficits and bringing down the national debt will require a broader conversation about our nation’s obligations. “We cannot neither reduce the deficit nor bring down the national debt without a growing economy that creates jobs here in America. I hope Democrats and Republicans will come together and work in a bipartisan fashion to make the strategic choices that will drive our economic recovery forward and erase the deficit. I look forward to working with the President and my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to get the job done for the American people.” ###
02.04.2011	Albany, GA – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-2), the Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies, today held a town hall meeting with service members and their families at the Marine Corps Logistics Base (MCLB) in Albany, GA. At the town hall meeting, Service members and their families voiced their concerns with spousal employment, education, and health care issues, and gave Rep. Bishop ideas on how Congress can ease the stress of wartime service on military families. “Hearing directly from service members and their family members about the issues and concerns they have was compelling and very informative,” said Congressman Bishop. “I am very grateful to those who shared their candid assessment of the areas where we can improve the services and programs we provide, and I plan to share the details of what I heard from the Marines on the base with my colleagues in Washington.” More than 200 Marines and family members attended the town hall meeting which took place at the MCLB Theater. The base provides facilities infrastructure and a range of tailored support services for the Marine Corps as well as logistical support to combat operations across the globe. The base is one of seven commands under Marine Corps Installations East, headquartered in Camp Lejune, North Carolina. The Marines and their families, who either live on the base or in the Greater Albany area, detailed the challenges they face finding jobs, obtaining housing, and making sure their children receive a quality education, while rotating to different bases across the country. Several attendees also offered suggestions about streamlining benefits processing and steps the government can take to better support military families. “Our troops and their families make great sacrifices to protect the freedoms we cherish,” said Congressman Bishop. “They deserve the best support and resources to give them some peace of mind here at home, and hearing from them today will allow me to be a more effective advocate for their needs in Washington.” ###
01.27.2011	Washington, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-2), Ranking Member of the Military Construction, Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies Appropriations Subcommittee, today sent a letter to Veterans Affairs (VA) Secretary, Erik Shinseki, outlining his priorities for improving the performance of the VA, and providing the troops, veterans and their families with the resources they deserve. Subcommittee Chairman John Culberson (R-TX) joined Rep. Bishop in sending the letter to Secretary Shinseki, as part of the subcommittee’s preparation for hearings later this year. “Our troops and their families have always gone above and beyond the call of duty, enduring great sacrifices to keep the American people safe,” said Ranking Member Bishop. “We have an obligation to provide the services, support and resources our veterans and their families deserve and we must ensure that the VA carries out its mission of providing adequate care to ease the burden of wartime service.” In the letter to Secretary Shinseki, Subcommittee Chairman Culberson and Subcommittee Ranking Member Bishop said: “Your Department’s mission is to serve America’s Veterans and their families with dignity and compassion, and to be their principal advocate in ensuring that they receive the care and support they have earned through service to our country. We are committed to ensuring that Congress, on behalf of the American people, fully supports the Department of Veteran Affairs in carrying out this mission.” Ranking Member Bishop has consistently supported veterans throughout his career and has staunchly defended the federal government’s obligation to provide the Veteran’s Administration with the resources it needs to meet our commitment to the troops. “As we try to find ways to improve the performance of the VA in the 112th Congress, we will look for efficiencies and eliminate redundant programs that waste taxpayer dollars,” said Ranking Member Bishop. “However, with our troops in harms away, we must continue to provide the combat support equipment that helps troops win on the battlefield, give their families some stability and peace of mind here at home, and deliver exceptional patient care and services for our veterans when they come home. Doing anything less would be a disgrace to their service.” The full text of the letter from Chairman Culberson and Ranking Member Bishop is below: January 26, 2011 Honorable Erik K. Shinseki Secretary, Department of Veterans Affairs 810 Vermont Avenue NW Washington, D.C. 20420 Dear Mr. Secretary: As the newly-elected Chairman and Ranking Member of the Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies Appropriations Subcommittee, we look forward to working with you and learning more about the operations of your Department. Your Department’s mission is to serve America’s Veterans and their families with dignity and compassion, and to be their principal advocate in ensuring that they receive the care and support they have earned through service to our country. We are committed to ensuring that Congress, on behalf of the American people, fully supports the Department of Veteran Affairs in carrying out this mission. However, it is the responsibility of the Subcommittee to provide effective stewardship of scarce taxpayer dollars, and our current fiscal situation requires us to eliminate inefficiency, fraud and abuse in all of the programs that your Department oversees. Therefore, we are writing today to ask for your help in identifying for the subcommittee savings in discretionary programs that could be enacted without diminishing patient care or services. We ask that you analyze all discretionary programs, including medical care, construction, information technology, general operating expenses, research, and the National Cemetery Administration, to look for savings and to also identify any duplicative or inefficient programs that can be eliminated or improved to provide savings for taxpayers and better health care and services for our nation's heroes. Our hearing schedule will begin shortly after March 1st, so we would ask that you provide the results of your analysis to us and the subcommittee staff by February 21, 2011. We are deeply grateful to you for your service to our nation and for your able leadership of the Veteran's Administration. Thank you. Sincerely, Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. Ranking Member Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies John A. Culberson Chairman Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies ###
01.26.2011	Washington, DC – The Military Coalition, a consortium of over 30 uniformed services and veterans associations representing more than 5.5 million current and former service members, their families, and survivors has announced their strong support and full endorsement of H.R. 333, the Disabled Veterans Tax Termination Act. Rep. Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-2), the Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veteran Affairs introduced H.R. 333 which would allow disabled veterans to receive the full amount of compensation they earned serving their country. “The Military Coalition has for years looked after the interest of our nation’s service members, veterans, and military families and I am proud to have their support on this vital piece of legislation,” said Congressman Bishop. “Veterans who have been injured during their service to our country have rightfully earned their military retirement pay and VA disability benefits, and it is unjust that our current policies effectively tax these Americans, taking money right out of their pockets. These policies must change and I look forward to working with the Coalition to pass this bill.” When a veteran receives income from multiple sources, such as from the VA and the Department of Defense, it is known as concurrent receipt. Under current law, many veterans are barred from collecting their VA disability compensation if they also receive military retirement pay, and face a dollar-for-dollar offset despite having earned both benefits while serving their country. The Disabled Veterans Tax Termination Act provides for a comprehensive solution to the concurrent receipt problem by expanding eligibility for concurrent receipt and eliminating the current system’s inequities. In their letter of support, 32 members of the Coalition thanked Rep. Bishop for his leadership, and made clear that they believe H.R. 333 is the most comprehensive legislation addressing the concurrent receipt problem and represents the Coalition’s ultimate goal on the issue. The Military Coalition, a leading champion for disabled retirees and their families, has vowed to push for passage of H.R. 333 in the 112th Congress. The full text of the Coalition’s letter to Congressman Bishop is below: January 25, 2011 The Honorable Sanford D. Bishop U.S. House of Representatives Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Congressman Bishop: The Military Coalition (TMC), a consortium of uniformed services and veterans associations representing more than 5.5 million current and former servicemembers and their families and survivors, wishes to extend our most sincere support of your bill, H.R. 333, the Disabled Veterans Tax Termination Act. The Coalition believes H.R. 333 is the most comprehensive concurrent receipt legislation introduced, as it will eliminate all of the remaining severe inequities for disabled retirees that exist in current statute. In the Coalition’s view, H.R. 333 is our ultimate concurrent receipt goal and has our full endorsement. The Military Coalition has a long history of supporting progress for disabled retirees and we are anxious to continue that progress through the passage of your bill. The Coalition thanks you for your leadership on issues that will have a profound, lasting impact on disabled retirees and their families and for continuing the work of another Georgian and strong supporter of the military community, former Congressman Jim Marshall. Sincerely, The Military Coalition (signatures enclosed) ###
01.25.2011	Washington, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-2) tonight released the following statement after President Obama delivered his State of the Union address to a Joint Session of Congress. “The President delivered an impressive, sincere and realistic speech about the challenges we face and what we must do to meet these challenges. He reiterated tonight that while our economy and our country are beginning to move in the right direction, we still have a long way to go before our economy fully recovers. “I was encouraged to hear him restate his commitment to working with both sides of the aisle to get our fiscal house in order. Solving our budgetary challenges will require both Democrats and Republicans to come together to guarantee that the 21st century is defined as the American century, and I look forward to working with the Administration to address these challenges.” ###
01.24.2011	Washington, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-2) today sent a letter to Governor Nathan Deal to highlight the possible adverse results from the Governor’s proposed changes to the Georgia Family Connection Partnerships (GaFCPs). Governor Deal is proposing to consolidate and transfer appropriated funds away from the Department of Human Services and directing them to the Governor’s Office for Children & Families (GOCF). The Governor’s proposal could change the public-private model for raising funds. Further, transferring the GaFCPs’ appropriation to GOCF will inhibit collaborative organizations’ ability to leverage dollars once their money and local decision-making ability is absorbed into a state agency. The present public-private partnership has increased involvement of local businesses and community leaders, which enhances the success of the GaFCPs throughout the State of Georgia. A complete copy of the letter is below: Dear Governor Deal, I am very familiar with the work of Georgia Family Connection in the Second Congressional District. Calhoun County Family Connection, Early County Family Connection along with many other local organizations have expressed concern regarding the proposed consolidation and transfer of appropriated funds from Georgia Family Connection Partnership to the Governor’s Office for Children and Families. Georgia Family Connection believes this is a bad idea because the consolidation and defunding of this initiative will adversely affect local collaboration and coordination along with the autonomy in the 159 county organizations throughout the state. During these challenging economic times, it is vital that the many public-private partnerships that Georgia Family Connection Partnership has developed over many years continue into the future. In Early County for example, this partnership has resulted in increased support and improved results for families and their children. It therefore is important to ensure Georgia Family Connection’s continued success across the state, and I urge you to keep their concerns in mind as you finalize the state’s FY12 budget. With warmest regards, I remain Sincerely, Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. Member of Congress ###
01.21.2011	Washington, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-2) today released the following statement of the death of Olan Faulk, Former Mayor of Richland, Georgia: “Georgia and America have lost a great public servant in Olan Faulk. His work as a rural educator, a community action program administrator, a long-time and effective aide for former U.S. Senator Sam Nunn, and as Mayor of his hometown of Richland, Georgia, are proof positive that Olan Faulk made a difference with his life.” “He was a great public servant, a trusted friend to my wife, Vivian, and me, and will be greatly missed by all who knew him.” “Our thoughts and prayers are with his wife, Riscoe, and his family at this most difficult time.” ###
01.20.2011	Washington, DC – The Democratic Steering & Policy Committee and the Democratic Caucus met and approved the Ranking Members of the Subcommittees of the House Appropriations Committee. Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-2) is now the confirmed Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction & Veteran Affairs. ###
01.20.2011	Washington, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-2), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veteran Affairs, announced today his introduction of H.R. 333, the Disabled Veterans Tax Termination Act. This legislation will end finally the current policy that wrongfully prevents disabled veterans from receiving the full amount of compensation earned by them through their service and sacrifice to our country. H.R. 333 has 72 original co-sponsors. “Veterans who have been injured during their service to our country have rightfully earned their military retirement pay and VA disability benefits,” said Congressman Bishop. “It is unjust that our current policies effectively tax these Americans, taking money right out of their pockets.” The Disabled Veterans Tax Termination Act provides for a comprehensive solution to the concurrent receipt problem facing members of our nation's Armed Services. Concurrent receipt refers to when a veteran receives income from both VA disability compensation and military retirement pay. Under current law, many veterans face a dollar-for-dollar offset on their military retirement pay based on their VA disability compensation, despite having rightfully earned both benefits through their service and sacrifice to our country. The legislation would permit retired service members who have a service-connected disability rated less than 50% to receive concurrent payment of both retired pay and veterans’ disability compensation. The bill also accelerates the phase-in period for current concurrent receipt provisions, and makes permanent concurrent receipt eligibility for Chapter 61 disability retirees with less than 20 years of service. “I am proud to introduce legislation that would correct this injustice to our service men and women,” stated Congressman Bishop. “I am hopeful that Congress can come together to ensure that those who risk life and limb for the security of our country do not suffer the indignity of receiving less than they deserve.” Congress has implemented a patchwork of concurrent receipt laws that have produced an incomplete solution to this issue. Previously, H.R. 333 had been introduced by Congressman Jim Marshall (2003-2011). ###
01.19.2011	Washington, DC – Congressman Norm Dicks (WA-6), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, today announced that Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-2) has been selected for the position of Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee’s Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, & Related Agencies. “I am looking forward to meeting the challenge of serving as the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee which funds our nation’s military construction and the programs that provide benefits for our nation’s veterans,” said Congressman Bishop. “This is a great honor for me and it provides great benefits for the State of Georgia and the Second District. The State of Georgia has a total of nine major military facilities and bases around the state, representing tens of thousands of jobs and several billion dollars of the state’s economy. With the recent expansion at Ft. Benning and the Marine Corps Logistics Base in Albany, these areas will soon witness great economic expansion. For example, Ft. Benning contributes over $1.2 billion to the local Columbus economy annually and will have over 51,000 military and civilian jobs with the addition of the Armor School.” “The Subcommittee is also responsible for the oversight of veteran’s affairs. With over 700,000 veterans living in the State of Georgia, their well-being is a chief concern of mine. I remain committed to providing deserved heath and education benefits for those who have bravely served our country.” The budget of the Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, & Related Agencies for Fiscal Year 2011 is $78 billion. Congressman Bishop will remain on the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food & Drug Administration, & Related Agencies. “Remaining on the Agriculture Subcommittee allows me to continue to do my dead-level best for the Georgia Agriculture community,” said Congressman Bishop. “Agriculture is a vital part of the economy of Southwest Georgia, so my continued membership on the Subcommittee is crucial to the success of our region.” Congressman Bishop also secured a seat on the Subcommittee on Legislative Branch, whose jurisdiction includes: House of Representatives; Joint Items; Architect of the Capitol (Except Senate Items); Capitol Police; Capitol Visitors Center; Congressional Budget Office; Government Accountability Office; Government Printing Office; John C. Stennis Center; Library of Congress; Office of Compliance; Open World Leadership Center; and the United States Capitol Preservation Commission. Ranking Member selections are still subject to approval by the Democratic Steering and Policy Committee, and the Democratic Caucus. ###
01.11.2011	Washington, DC – In response to the following inquiry by the Savannah Morning News: “Will there be any additional security precautions concerning the Congressman’s public appearances in light of the Arizona incident?” Congressman Bishop’s office released the following statement: “Congressman Bishop certainly would like always to be accessible for dialogue with constituents, but under the current circumstances, obviously there must be a balance between accessibility and security. Congressman Bishop supports the Second Amendment and intends to do whatever is necessary to protect and defend his family, his staff, and his constituents. He and his staff will use common sense and utilize law enforcement wherever appropriate. Further security briefings are anticipated on Wednesday by Capitol Police and the House Sergeant at Arms. ‘Ultimately,’ said Congressman Bishop, ‘we will all have to depend on the grace and mercy of God for protection as we endeavor to do His will and serve our constituents.’ ” ###
01.08.2011	Washington, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-2) today released the following statement on the tragic shooting of Rep. Gabrielle Giffords (AZ-8): "Vivian and I are deeply saddened by the tragic and senseless shooting of Rep. Gabrielle Giffords, her staff, and her constituents. Our thoughts and prayers are with those who were maliciously attacked and their families. May the Grace of God be with them during this difficult time." ###
12.09.2010	Washington, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-2) today voted to prevent scheduled cuts in Medicare reimbursement rates for doctors and to maintain the current Medicare rates doctors are paid through 2011. Absent this action by Congress, the rates were scheduled to be cut by 25% on January 1. “These cuts would have adversely impacted the access to health care of millions of senior citizens in Georgia and across the nation because many doctors have threatened to stop treating Medicare patients if the cuts are enacted,” said Congressman Bishop. “Congress, however, still needs to work towards a permanent solution to prevent any further uncertainty for patients and physicians.” The legislation (Senate Amendment to H.R. 4994 – Medicare and Medicaid Extenders Act) is completely offset and does not add to the federal budget deficit. The U.S. Senate approved the legislation on December 8, 2010 by unanimous consent. The measure now goes to the President for his signature. ###
12.08.2010	Washington, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-2) today released the following statement on the passage of the continuing resolution by the U.S. House of Representatives: “It is unfortunate that we have to operate the Federal Government under a continuing resolution, but given the inability to reach a bipartisan agreement on a budget and twelve appropriations bills, a continuing resolution is necessary. However, I am pleased that the continuing resolution will provide adequate funding and flexibility for the Department of Defense and that it also fully funds our operations in Afghanistan and Iraq and provides a pay increase for our military personnel.” “I also support the freeze in pay for federal employees, as it helps to reduce the deficit. On April 27, 2010, my colleagues and I supported legislation to reduce the deficit by freezing Congressional pay raises for Fiscal Year 2011. The measure, the Cancel the Pay Raise for Members of Congress in Fiscal Year 2011 Act (H.R. 5146), passed the United States House of Representatives by a vote of 402 to 15. The U.S. Senate then approved the bill the following day, and the legislation was signed into law by the President on May 14, 2010.” ###
12.07.2010	Washington, D.C. – I applaud the bipartisan agreement on much-needed tax relief for all Americans. Now is not the time to raise taxes on any segment of the population while the economy remains so fragile. Raising taxes would stifle investment, impede job creation, and put severe financial strain on businesses and individuals. Every worker in Georgia’s Second Congressional District will benefit from having 2% less taken from his or her paycheck each and every week for a year. This will keep money in the pockets of every working American and stimulate the economy. Out-of-work Georgians will benefit from the one-year extension of unemployment insurance benefits, so that they can continue to look for work and provide for their families as the economy recovers. Furthermore, many of Georgia’s seniors are on fixed incomes consisting of Social Security payments, supplemented by dividend and capital gains income. This agreement will help ensure that seniors can make ends meet in this challenging economic environment. Finally, while I would have preferred a full repeal of the estate tax, the bipartisan agreement provides substantial relief and certainty to Georgia’s farmers and small businesses by allowing a $10 million exemption for couples and by lowering the estate tax rate by 20%. I look forward to voting for this bipartisan agreement should it reach the House floor in its current form, and I urge my colleagues to send it to the President’s desk for his signature before the end of the year. ###
12.02.2010	Washington, D.C. – I agree that the extension of middle income tax cuts is vital to the economic health of our nation, and I proudly support providing this much needed relief. Over 75% of American workers are living paycheck-to-paycheck, and they simply cannot afford the burden of new taxes. Furthermore, many of our nation’s seniors are on fixed incomes consisting of Social Security payments, supplemented by dividend and capital gains income. This measure will help ensure that seniors can make ends meet in this challenging economic environment. Unfortunately, this measure does not go far enough. Given the current state of our fragile economic recovery, now is not the time to raise taxes on any American. Businesses large and small are still having difficulty creating new jobs, training their workers, and growing for the future. I remain deeply concerned that raising taxes on those businesses would further impede job creation and punish success at a time when we should be encouraging the entrepreneurial spirit. Furthermore, I am troubled that this measure does not address estate tax relief. The most oppressive estate tax we have seen in a decade is scheduled to go into effect at the beginning of the New Year. Our farmers and small business owners face dire consequences from inaction on this issue. Higher estate tax rates would have an especially severe impact on farmers and small business owners in Georgia’s Second Congressional District. According to a June 2009 report by the U.S. Department of Agriculture, if Congress does not take action on estate tax relief before the end of this year, the resulting higher estate tax could affect 10% of American farms, 98% of which are family-owned and operated. Many Georgians could lose farms that have been passed down from generation to generation, or be forced to sell much-needed land, buildings, and equipment. In addition, small business owners could lose the companies they worked so hard to build and hoped to hand down to their children. We cannot ignore these issues, and it is my hope that a bipartisan agreement can be reached before the New Year. We must extend the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts, at least temporarily, for all Americans, as well as provide substantial estate tax relief for the benefit of our family-owned farms and businesses. Now is not the time for political games and maneuvering. The nation needs us to come together and address this issue in a bipartisan manner. We truly cannot afford to wait any longer. ###
11.28.2010	Washington, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-2) today submitted the following statement on the death of U.S. Army Specialist Shannon Chihuahua into the Congressional Record: Madame Speaker, I rise today to pay tribute to a brave soldier, a dedicated citizen of Thomasville, Georgia, and a great American, U.S. Army Specialist Shannon “Chanen” Chihuahua, who selflessly gave his life while serving his country in Operation Enduring Freedom in Afghanistan. Specialist Chihuahua was born in 1985, and was raised in Thomasville, Georgia. After graduating from Thomas County Central High School in 2004, he attended Valdosta State University. He met his loving wife, Kristen, in July of 2006 and the two were married November 4, 2006. Answering the call to service, he enlisted in the U.S. Army. Specialist Chihuahua was assigned to the 1st Battalion, 327th Infantry Regiment, 1st Brigade Combat Team, 101st Airborne Division (Air Assault), at Fort Campbell, Kentucky. His awards and decorations include: Purple Heart; Army Commendation Medal; Army Achievement Medal; National Defense Service Medal; Afghanistan Campaign Medal; Global War on Terrorism Service Medal; Army Service Ribbon; NATO Medal; and Combat Medic Badge. While deployed to Afghanistan, he was one of several service members tragically killed on November 12, 2010 when insurgents attacked his unit using small arms fire and rocket propelled grenades. He gave the ultimate sacrifice; he died while trying to save a fellow soldier, who was injured. Specialist Chihuahua’s death is a great loss to this country, as he was a man of great promise and honor. He was described as an energetic and positive person with a constant smile. He was well regarded by his peers and known for his congeniality. His death is also a great loss to his loving family. He is survived by his wife, Kristen; two daughters, Sophia and Annabelle; his mother, Dennice Dinkins of Thomasville, Georgia; and father, Sebastian Chihuahua of Del Rio, Texas. Madame Speaker, U.S. Army Specialist Shannon “Chanen” Chihuahua made the ultimate sacrifice for his country. His time on this earth was too short. He was a proud American, a brave soldier, and a true family man. In life, he was loved and honored and in death, he will be remembered by a grateful nation. ###
11.17.2010	Washington, DC – In the Book of Ecclesiastes, it is written “for every thing there is a season.” After prayerful reflection and numerous conversations with constituents who both supported and opposed my re-election, it is with a heavy heart that I have concluded that Speaker Pelosi’s season has passed. Consequently, I cannot in good conscience support her nomination as House Minority Leader for the 112th Congress. On a personal level, I hold Speaker Pelosi in the highest regard. We served together on the House Intelligence Committee. I have long admired her intelligence as well as her tenacity. Her leadership was responsible for the House Democrats winning the majority in 2006 and then securing the passage of legislation that improves the lives of millions of Americans. In fact, I believe that Nancy Pelosi’s speakership in terms of her ability to forge consensus from the different views within the House Democratic Caucus was truly one for the history books. There comes a time, however, when one must put the future of the country and the Democratic Party ahead of purely personal considerations. Having Speaker Pelosi as the face of our party in the U.S. House of Representatives for the next two years will not allow us to rebuild for the future. It will make it more difficult for us to recapture the moderate and independent voters who deserted the Democratic Party in droves this November. It will make it more difficult for us to make inroads in rural America which shifted from blue to red in historic proportions. In fact, I don’t see how we will be able to recruit candidates to run in the South and other red states with Speaker Pelosi at the helm. The Editorial Page of The New York Times expressed it best last week. It said that “what House Democrats need is what Ms. Pelosi has been unable to provide: a clear and convincing voice to help Americans understand that Democratic policies are not bankrupting the country, advancing socialism or destroying freedom. If Ms. Pelosi had been a more persuasive communicator, she could have batted away the ludicrous caricature of her painted by Republicans across the country as some kind of fur-hatted commissar jamming her diktats down the public’s throat. Both Ms. Pelosi and Harry Reid, the Senate majority leader, are inside players who seem to visibly shrink on camera when defending their policies, rarely connecting with the skeptical independent voters who raged so loudly on Tuesday … Congressional Democrats need a new champion to stand against a tightly disciplined Republican insurgency.” Given the fact that we suffered substantial losses in the election, I think a new face is needed for leadership of the Democratic Caucus. For this reason, I will not vote for Speaker Pelosi as House Minority Leader. I will be supporting an alternative candidate with somber thoughts of my moderate to conservative colleagues who were battered into defeat by her image in countless thirty-second spots. ###
10.28.2010	Washington, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-2) today presented a check for $6.2 million to Valley Healthcare Systems, Inc. (VHSI). The funds were awarded through the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. “For over two decades, Valley Healthcare has been a leader in providing vital healthcare services to the citizens of Muscogee County,” said Congressman Bishop. “Whether rich or poor, black or white, urban or rural, the Valley Healthcare staff has worked to improve the lives of those in this community, serving as a linchpin in the healthcare of the community. With these funds today, Valley Healthcare will continue to expand and ensure that more citizens have increased access to high-quality, affordable healthcare.” VHSI is proposing to construct a new 29,860 square foot facility in a highly accessible location in Columbus. When fully operational, the new building will allow VHSI to perform an additional 17,000 visits annually. The project also will allow VHSI to add a pharmacist. According to an August 2010 report by the Center for American Progress, the $2 billion in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 generated $3.2 billion of economic activity. The report also said that in 2009 health centers generated nearly $20 billion in economic activities for their local communities – both urban and rural. In addition, the new health reform law provides an additional $9.5 billion in operating costs and $1.5 billion for new construction of community health centers. “With this funding increase, community health centers will be able to double the number of patients they serve to up to 40 million annually by 2015,” said Congressman Bishop. Since the main facility of VHSI was torn down in 2007, the health center has operated out of temporary and modular spaces. VHSI is the only non-Federally Qualified Health Center in Muscogee County and the only non-military healthcare provider on the south side of Columbus. In 2004, VHSI received a $500,000 appropriation through Congressman Bishop, who sits on the Appropriations Committee. ###
10.15.2010	Washington, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-2) today announced his support for legislation to provide Social Security recipients with a one-time $250 payment. The legislation (H.R. 5987, the Seniors Protection Act) had been drafted in anticipation of the Social Security Administration’s announcement today that there will be no automatic Cost-of-Living-Adjustment (COLA) for 2011. For the first time ever, 2011 will be the second consecutive year that Social Security retirees, veterans, and people with disabilities will see no increase in their monthly Social Security, SSI, VA Pension and Compensation, and Railroad Retirement benefits. This unprecedented situation is a result of economic conditions, not the result of Congressional or Presidential action or inaction. “I am a proud co-sponsor of H.R. 5987, the Seniors Protection Act, which will provide a $250 payment to about 54 million Americans in lieu of no increase in their monthly income,” said Congressman Bishop. “This is in keeping with my Blue-Dog principles; the President has already budgeted for this and we can do this in a fiscally responsible way.” “Americans who need Social Security to survive can’t afford to tread water while the economy lingers from the effects of the worst economic situation since the Great Depression,” said Congressman Bishop. “We will work quickly to enact a one-time $250 payment to seniors, veterans, and people with disabilities who receive Social Security to help them make ends meet during this tough time when housing values are down, other retirement income is volatile, and many are facing rising expenses.” The COLA is automatically calculated using data on inflation published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS). Today is the day BLS releases the final economic factor that the Social Security Administration uses to calculate the annual COLA. In 2009, Social Security recipients saw a 5.8% increase in their benefits, the largest since 1982, as a result of rising costs; but in 2010, they saw no COLA at all. Social Security benefit levels are modest – only $14,000 a year for the average retiree. The median income for senior households is just $24,000, reflecting just how much Social Security means to most elderly Americans. Six in ten seniors rely on Social Security for more than half of their income, and about a third of retirees have little other than Social Security on which to live. ###
10.05.2010	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement on the tragic accident in Early County: “I was saddened to learn of the tragic accident involving several members of the Tabernacle of Prayer and Deliverance Church congregation. My thoughts and prayers are with the victims and their families. We extend our deepest sympathies to the families who lost loved ones in this heartbreaking tragedy and pray for a complete and speedy recovery for each of the injured survivors.” “I want to thank the emergency responders from the Blakely/Early County area for their heroic efforts, as well as the people from the greater Columbus area for their tremendous show of support during this very difficult time.” ###
09.24.2010	Washington, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) voted to support the Senate-passed version of H.R. 5297, the Small Business Jobs Act. The legislation establishes a $30 billion Small Business Lending Fund in the United States Department of Treasury to provide community banks (those holding $10 billion or less in assets) with capital to increase small business lending. It also invests $1.5 billion in grants to support $15 billion in new small business lending through already successful state programs. The U.S. House of Representatives approved the legislation by a vote of 237 to 187, sending it to the President for his signature. “Small businesses have been hit hard by the recession – losing more than six million jobs since December 2007,” said Congressman Bishop. “They are being starved of the capital they need to grow and create new jobs. This bill supports entrepreneurs and businesses in Southwest Georgia by easing the credit crunch and providing robust incentives for investment to bolster small business and help get Americans back to work.” In addition, the Senate-passed version of H.R. 5297 includes tax cuts that will double and enhance small business expensing and extend bonus depreciation; allow for 100% exclusion of capital gains on investments in small business; double the deduction for start-up expenditures; and allow self-employed taxpayers to deduct health costs for payroll purposes. On August 16, 2010, Congressman Bishop hosted a Small Business Lending Forum in Albany, Georgia, where he brought together small businesses, banks, non-profit organizations, state and local officials, and the U.S. Small Business Administration to discuss strategies for securing a small business loan in this challenging economic climate. America’s 27 million small businesses – of which 868,000 are located in Georgia – continue to face a lack of credit and tight lending standards. The number of small business loans has been down nearly five million since the financial crisis began in 2008 under President Bush. ###
09.22.2010	Washington, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) today signed onto a letter to Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi, House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer, and House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander Levin urging that the U.S. House of Representatives extend the Bush 2003 tax rates on dividends and long-term capital gains. “With the state of our fragile economic recovery, now is not the time to raise taxes that would impede job creation and take money out of the pockets of our nation’s seniors,” said Congressman Bishop. “Seniors rely on dividend income to supplement their fixed Social Security payments. We owe it to our seniors to look out for them in this time of economic instability.” Last week, Bishop sent a letter to the House Leadership requesting that substantial estate tax relief be included in any upcoming tax legislation. Bishop also joined 30 of his colleagues in the Blue Dog Coalition, a group of fiscally conservative Democrats, in signing a letter to Speaker Pelosi and Majority Leader Hoyer urging them to consider legislation to extend all of the 2001 income tax cuts. The text of the letter is as follows: Dear Speaker Pelosi and Majority Leader Hoyer: A number of tax cuts enacted in the past decade are due to expire at the end of this year. Our fiscal policy should be one that maximizes economic growth and private sector job creation. That is why we strongly believe that Congress should extend the current tax rates for dividend and long-term capital gains taxes. By keeping dividends and capital gains tax rates linked and low for everyone, we can help the private sector create jobs and allow seniors and middle class households to save and invest more. A dividends tax increase would impede our nation's economic recovery by decreasing the amount of capital that companies would have access to, thereby slowing the private sector's ability to grow and create jobs. We also have a responsibility to protect middle class families and seniors from harmful tax increases and their economic impact. Raising the tax rate on dividends would likely cause some companies to forego paying dividends and others to pay a lower amount to shareholders. These outcomes would disproportionately affect seniors and those saving for retirement as they represent a large portion of investors who own dividends paying stocks. Many seniors depend on this income to supplement their fixed retirement income. A recent study found that in 2007 over 27 million tax returns had dividends qualifying for the tax rate reduction. Of those returns, 61 percent were from taxpayers age 50 and older and 30 percent were from taxpayers age 65 and older. Our economy is fragile. We need tax policies that will promote our recovery. Raising taxes on capital gains and dividends could discourage individuals and businesses from saving and investing. We urge you to maintain the current tax rate for both dividend and long-term capital gains taxes. ###
09.17.2010	Washington, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) released the following statement on the USDA announcement this week of the USDA 2009 Disaster Assistance program, which exclusively covers upland cotton, rice, soybeans, and sweet potatoes. “We all appreciate Senator Lincoln’s work on this issue and her attempt to provide disaster assistance for farmers. We never would have gotten this far in moving forward with assistance if it weren’t for her hard work.” “However, we understood that the Administration made a commitment to cover all of the provisions in Lincoln’s disaster package, and clearly the assistance announced Wednesday does not live up to that commitment. It is unacceptable that any assistance be limited to a few commodities, and based on emergency declarations resulting only from floods or excessive rain.” “The Second Congressional District has a variety of producers, especially peanut and specialty crop producers, who are very disappointed with this final package. A disaster is a disaster, and when one hits it doesn’t just impact one or two crops – it impacts all crops.” “I plan to continue to work with the leadership and administration to work towards an equitable resolution of this important matter.” ###
09.16.2010	Washington, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) today sent a letter to Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi, House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer, and House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander Levin urging that any legislation the U.S. House of Representatives considers extending the Bush 2001 and 2003 tax cuts will include substantial estate tax relief. Earlier this week, Bishop also joined 30 of his colleagues in the Blue Dog Coalition, a group of fiscally conservative Democrats, in signing a letter to Speaker Pelosi and Majority Leader Hoyer urging them to consider legislation to extend all of the 2001 income tax cuts. The letter states that “[g]iven the continued fragility of our economy and slow pace of recovery … [w]e believe in times of economic recovery it makes good sense to maintain things as they are in the short term, to provide families and businesses the certainty required to plan and make sound budget decisions. Providing this certainty will give small businesses, the backbone of our economic recovery, confidence and stability.” The text of Bishop’s letter on the estate tax is as follows: It is my understanding that the U.S. House of Representatives may soon consider legislation to extend some or all of the Bush tax cuts enacted in 2001 and 2003. I urge you to include as part of the overall tax package substantial relief in the estate tax. Beginning next year, the estate tax is scheduled to increase to its highest rate in a decade. A higher estate tax rate would have a severe impact on farmers and small business owners in Georgia’s Second Congressional District. If Congress does not take action before the end of this year, the resulting higher estate tax could affect 10% of American farms, 98% of which are family-owned and operated. Many Georgians could lose farms that have been passed down from generation to generation or be forced to sell much-needed land, buildings, and equipment. In addition, small business owners could lose the companies they worked so hard to build and hoped to hand down to their children. Fortunately, the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010 (P.L. 111-139) has several key exceptions, including exempting for two years the cost of extending the 2009 estate tax law, with a $3.5 million exemption and a maximum tax rate of 45%. Legislation also has been introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives (H.R. 3905) which calls for a permanent extension of the $3.5 million exemption and 45% maximum tax rate. While I would personally prefer a full repeal of the estate tax, the alternative of Congress doing nothing would be far worse – uncertainty in future estate planning as well as a higher tax rate and a lower exemption amount in 2011. I look forward to working with you to ensure that a solution can be reached in the coming weeks that will reform the estate tax while providing farmers and small businesses with the stability, certainty, and peace of mind they need to plan for the future. Sincerely, Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. ###
09.08.2010	Washington, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) today announced he will host a Town Hall Meeting with U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Lisa Jackson. The Town Hall Meeting will be held Friday, September 10, 2010, at South Georgia Technical College, Pope Center, 900 South Technical Parkway – Americus, Georgia 31709, from 11:00 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. “I know there are a lot of mixed feelings about the EPA in the Second District,” said Congressman Bishop. “I believe this Town Hall Meeting is a great opportunity for us, especially in the agriculture community, to express our concerns, ask questions, and more importantly, give the Administrator an opportunity to directly hear those views and concerns. I want to invite anyone interested, especially our farmers, to attend the meeting this Friday. I hope we will have a positive and informative discussion. Confirmed guests include: Congressman Bishop; EPA Administrator Jackson; State Representative Mike Choekas; Sumter County Chairman Brent Williams; County Administrator Lynn Taylor; Mayor Barry Blount; Americus CEO - Charlotte Cotton; South Georgia Technical College President Mr. Sparky Reeves; Georgia Southwestern State University President Dr. Kendall Blanchard; GA Environmental Protection Division Director Allen Barnes President of Georgia Farm Bureau Mr. Vincent "Zippy" Duvall; Georgia Cotton Commission Board Member & Farmer Jimmy Webb; Georgia Peanut Commission Board Member & Farmer Donald Chase; McClesky Mills Owner and FSA Chairman Ronnie Lee All interested persons are invited to attend. ###
09.02.2010	Washington, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) today announced today that an additional $500,000 in financial assistance has been approved for the Agricultural Water Enhancement Program (AWEP) in the Lower Flint River Basin project. “This funding for AWEP couldn’t have come at a better time,” said Congressman Bishop. “These additional funds will prove to be essential to the widespread adoption of these water-saving technologies. Our producers are good stewards of the land; these funds will help them implement more water conservation at a faster rate.” During his recent visit to Albany to join Congressman Bishop in announcing the additional funding of $70,000, the Chief of the Natural Resources Conservation Service – Dave White had an opportunity to also visit a variable rate irrigation project and was impressed with the potential for increased water savings and the high interest and demand for the program. As a result of his on-site visit, an additional $500,000 was made available to fund applications this year. The program was initially funded at $1 million; then, the additional $70,000 was made available in August of this year. Now an additional $500,000 is available for a total of $1,570,000. “This project will improve water efficiency by deploying advanced irrigation management practices across 27 counties in Southwest Georgia,” said Congressman Bishop. “Funded practices include low pressure drop nozzle irrigation retrofits with end gun shut-offs, remote soil moisture monitoring, sod based rotation, and variable rate irrigation.” The AWEP promotes ground and surface water conservation and improves water quality by helping farmers and ranchers implement agricultural water enhancement activities. These include: • Water quality or water conservation plan development, including resource condition assessment and modeling; • Water conservation restoration or enhancement projects, including conversion to the production of less water-intensive agricultural commodities or dry land farming; • Water quality or quantity restoration or enhancement projects; • Irrigation system improvement or irrigation efficiency enhancement; • Activities designed to mitigate the effects of drought; and • Other related activities to help achieve water quality or water conservation benefits on agricultural land. More information about specific AWEP projects visit: https://www.nrcs.usda.gov, or visit the nearest USDA Service Center in your area. ###
08.19.2010	Washington, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) today announced today that the Community Development Financial Institution (CDFI), Columbus Housing Initiative, has been selected to receive an award of $500,000 under the Fiscal Year 2010 round of the CDFI Program administered by the U.S. Department of the Treasury. Congressman Bishop strongly supported Columbus Housing Initiative’s pursuit of these funds. The Columbus Housing Initiative is a certified CDFI, established in 2003, that provides home purchase products for members of the military in Georgia. They will use their $500,000 Financial Assistance award to increase lending to their Target Market. “This award is great news for members of our military who need assistance in purchasing a home,” said Congressman Bishop. “These brave men and women have made an incredible sacrifice for our country, and helping them to fulfill the American Dream and finance a home purchase is one way to show our gratitude. I want to congratulate Columbus Housing Initiative and wish them much success in the future.” The CDFI Fund has selected 180 CDFIs, through a competitive application process, to receive these awards. Through the CDFI Program, the CDFI Fund invests in and builds the capacity of private, for-profit and nonprofit certified community development financial institutions that serve low-income people and communities lacking adequate access to affordable financial products and services. ###
08.12.2010	Washington, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) today announced today that the third round of checks to begin to close the “donut hole,” or gap in Medicare Part D drug coverage, has been sent to more than 375,000 seniors across the nation. In Georgia, nearly 10,600 checks were sent to seniors this week. This one-time tax-free check of $250 now has been mailed to over 21,700 seniors in Georgia since June 2010. The new health reform law, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, will continue to provide additional discounts for seniors on Medicare in the years ahead and close the “donut hole” by 2020. “Senior citizens should not have to choose between buying the prescriptions they need and putting food on the table,” said Bishop. “Closing the ‘donut hole’ and helping to defray the cost of prescription drugs is one of the most important things that Congress can do to ensure that Americans have peace of mind in their golden years.” Currently, Medicare beneficiaries pay a $310 deductible and 25% of their drug costs until the total reaches $2,830 for the year. Then, they fall into the “donut hole” or coverage gap. At that point, beneficiaries must pay all costs out of pocket until their annual expenses exceed $6,440. After that, seniors pay 5% of drug costs for the rest of the year. Medicare recipients do not have to do anything to get the $250 check – once their drug costs for the year hit $2,830 the one-time check will be issued automatically. The checks are just the first benefit from health reform for seniors in the Medicare Prescription Drug program. Beginning in January 2011, seniors in the donut hole will receive a 50% discount on brand name drugs. By 2020, the donut hole will be completely closed. Making prescription drugs more affordable for seniors is only one of the many benefits for seniors included in the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. Under the new law, other benefits for seniors include: • Beginning on January 1, 2011, provides that seniors will receive free preventive care services like mammograms and certain colon cancer tests and a free annual physical. • Strengthens Medicare by extending its solvency by an additional 12 years, from 2017 to 2029. • Includes Medicare efficiencies, so that experts estimate that seniors can expect to save on average almost $200 per year in premiums, by 2018, compared to what they would have paid without the new law. • Continues to reduce waste, fraud and abuse in Medicare. • Improves care by helping doctors communicate and coordinate. • Expands home and community-based services to keep seniors in their home, instead of in nursing homes. ###
08.11.2010	Washington, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) today announced he will host a free forum for small businesses in Southwest Georgia to learn about current lending and financing options available through the Small Business Administration (SBA). The forum will be held Monday, August 16, 2010, at Albany Technical College, Kirkland Conference Center, 1704 South Slappey Drive – Albany, Georgia 31071, from 9:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. “Small businesses are vital to Southwest Georgia’s economy and play an important role in our economic recovery efforts,” said Congressman Bishop. “Yet almost two years after a financial crisis caused a near collapse of the economy, many small businesses in Georgia are still having difficulties finding the working capital they need to invest in new jobs and new markets. This free forum will help small businesses in the Second Congressional District better understand the great variety of SBA loan programs available to Southwest Georgia.” Confirmed guests include: Congressman Bishop; Thelma Adams-Johnson, Executive Director – Albany Community Together; Debbie Finney – Small Business Development Center, Albany; George Hoag – SBA; and Perry Revell, Commercial Lender – SunTrust Banks, Inc. All interested persons are invited to attend. ###
08.10.2010	Washington, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) today announced his support for H.R. 6080, the 2010 Emergency Border Security Supplemental Appropriations Bill, which was approved by voice vote. “It is my strong belief that we cannot compromise our national security,” said Congressman Bishop. “We must do all we can to reduce the increasing violence around our border, and I fully support strengthening our border security, particularly from illegal entry into the U.S., as well as other potentially dangerous factors, including terrorist elements. This bill goes a long way to provide critical support to protect our great nation’s security.” The bill is the exact text of the Schumer Substitute to H.R. 5875 passed by the Senate on Thursday, August 5, 2010. The House had to consider it as a new bill to satisfy the Origination Clause of the U.S. Constitution. It provides a total of $600 million to help address the threat of increased violence along the Southwest Border by strengthening border security and enforcement efforts, and it is fully offset. It must now be approved by the Senate before it can be signed into law by the President. For more information on the bill, click here. ###
08.10.2010	Washington, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) today announced his support for H.R. 1586, the Education Jobs and Medicaid Assistance Act, which passed the House today by a vote of 247 to 161. The bill, which is fully offset by closing tax loopholes and cutting spending, provides $10 billion for aid to local school districts to prevent layoffs in elementary and secondary schools, saving an estimated 161,000 education jobs nation-wide, and 5,700 jobs in the State of Georgia. According to the Center for Budget and Policy Priorities (CBPP), the State of Georgia is estimated to receive under this legislation $322 million in additional education support. “The education of our nation’s youth goes hand-in-hand with America’s economic recovery,” said Congressman Bishop. “In Georgia this week, most of the school districts are opening. The sooner this bill becomes law, the sooner our school districts will be able to rehire teachers, stop planned layoffs, and prepare our children for future success.” In addition to the education aid, H.R. 1586 extends enhanced federal Medicaid funding to states, through June 30, 2011. CBPP estimates that Georgia will receive an additional $228 million in Medicaid assistance. Many states, including Georgia, have budgeted for the receipt of federal Medicaid dollars. Failure to pass this legislation would have caused states to lose significant amounts of fiscal relief, leading to a loss of state jobs. Under the Recovery Act, enacted in February 2009, the federal Medicaid matching rate was increased by 6.2 percentage points for all states and by additional percentage points for states with high unemployment (including Georgia). These temporary provisions were enacted in response to the state fiscal crisis – with increasing Medicaid caseloads and decreasing state revenues resulting from the deep recession. The provisions are scheduled to expire on December 31, 2010. This bill would continue the additional federal assistance for six months (from January 1, 2011 through June 30, 2011), but would phase the level of assistance down. For January – March 2011, the federal Medicaid matching rate would be increased by 3.2 percentage points for all states, and for April – June 2011, the federal matching rate would be increased by 1.2 percentage points for all states. For this six-month period, states with high unemployment would continue to receive the additional percentage points, as they do under current law. These provisions will ensure that states continue to receive increases throughout state fiscal year 2011 (which runs from July 1, 2010 through June 30, 2011). “These Medicaid funds will plug a huge hole in Georgia’s state budget,” said Congressman Bishop. “It will prevent the state from laying off more firefighters and police officers, cutting more services, raising taxes, and slowing down the economic recovery that is already underway.” Earlier this year, 42 governors wrote to Congress seeking the Medicaid assistance – including Georgia Governor Sonny Purdue. The National Governors Association stated in a June letter that, “Governors continue to support a two-quarter extension of the [Medicaid aid] …as the most efficient way to help states avoid further layoffs and service cuts that could otherwise slow the recovery.” “My colleagues and I have heard the request of the Governors, and we are proud to do all we can to ensure Americans have jobs and services available to them,” said Congressman Bishop. ###
08.04.2010	Washington, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) today announced that the Windstream Corporation of Georgia will receive an award of over $5.1 million to extend its broadband network to provide broadband service to homes and businesses in Southwest Georgia currently not serviced with broadband. The project stands to benefit approximately 44,000 Georgians. In addition, 2,000 business and nearly 120 community institutions stand to benefit from the project. The Windstream Corporation plans to provide $1.7 million towards the project. Congressman Bishop said, “This broadband project greatly benefits the Second Congressional District. It will help our rural communities, enabling them to more fully participate in our recovering economy, while we continue to modernize rural education and health care. It will create jobs and economic opportunities for our rural businesses throughout Georgia, allowing them to take advantage of technology to help them remain profitable and competitive.” The funding made available will provide broadband services to a significant portion of underserved areas in the Second District, including; Brooks, Dooly, Early, Grady, Macon, Miller, Sumter, Seminole, Schley, Talbot, and Thomas Counties. ###
07.29.2010	Washington, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-2) today sent a letter to the Chairman of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, Representative Edolphus “Ed” Towns (NY-10), regarding the U.S. Postal Service operations transfer from the Columbus Customer Service Mail Processing Center to the Macon Processing and Distribution Center. In the letter, dated July 28, 2010, Congressman Bishop stated a series of concerns about the transfer and its negative effects on the Columbus area. “Attempts by the Postal Service to improve productivity and increase efficiency have resulted in new procedures which have severely impacted postal service in the Columbus area,” wrote Congressman Bishop. “Especially impacted is mail originating from Columbus, Georgia and destined for Columbus, Georgia.” Congressman Bishop expressed his concern that the new system will force mail to be postmarked in Macon, 96 miles away, before it can be sent back to Columbus to be delivered, adding up to three days to delivery schedules. In addition, the transfer was approved May 26, 2010 and the process was to be completed by the first of this month. “According to conversations with mail employees at the Columbus mail facility, there have been significantly more delays with mail, even though the Postal Service study suggested there would be an improvement in service,” wrote Congressman Bishop. While a study of mail delivery systems in the Columbus area was conducted, it did not include Fort Benning, which is scheduled, under the BRAC process, to greatly increase in size. This increase in population, combined with the 96+ miles of mail travel distance will only further mail delivery delays. “It appears that the Macon facility, which now has idle equipment, cannot deliver mail to Columbus in a timely fashion,” added Congressman Bishop. ###
07.28.2010	Washington, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-2) announced his support today for a series of bills aimed at increasing American manufacturing and job creation. The three bills introduced also will promote clean energy technology exports to create clean energy manufacturing jobs for Americans. The bills also establish a commission to study the U.S. trade deficit in an effort to decrease U.S. dependency on China. In addition to these bills, a Sense of the House Resolution encourages fruit and vegetable and commodity producers to display the American flag on labels of products grown in the United States to remind Americans of the healthy bounty produced by American farmers and workers. “Americans are innovative and competitive; we have a willing and able workforce in our great nation,” said Congressman Bishop. “People are desperate to get back to work, and today we have the opportunity to create jobs, strengthen our economy, reduce our dependency on China, and return to our place as a global leader in manufacturing. We are proud to be Americans; we should be proud to buy American!” The “Make It In America” bills include:National Manufacturing Strategy Act, H.R. 4692 • Requires a comprehensive analysis of the nation’s manufacturing sector every 4 years and directs the President to submit a National Manufacturing Strategy to Congress. • This strategy should identify goals and recommendations regarding how the federal government, as well as State, local and private institutions, can best support the growth of U.S. manufacturers into the markets of the future. Clean Energy Technology Manufacturing and Export Assistance Act, H.R. 5156 • Helps American businesses to export clean energy technology products and services by giving them the information needed to navigate foreign markets and supports the development and implementation of a National Clean Energy Technology Export Strategy. • Clean energy technology exports could increase by $40 billion per year and create more than 750,000 jobs by 2020. [Energy Department] End the Trade Deficit Act, H.R. 1875 • Establishes the “Emergency Trade Deficit Commission” to examine the nature, causes and consequences of the U.S. trade deficit and make recommendations on reducing trade imbalances. • U.S. trade deficits harm the U.S. manufacturing base – a critical element of our economy. • The Commission’s work will provide added momentum for Congress’s efforts to address the trade deficit and strengthen U.S. manufacturing. ###
07.22.2010	Washington, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-2) announced today that the U.S. House of Representatives approved the Unemployment Compensation Extension Act, H.R. 4213, by a vote of 272 to 152. This emergency legislation will extend unemployment insurance benefits to millions of Americans through November 30, 2010, including 107,000 residents of the State of Georgia who have lost unemployment benefits as of July 17, 2010. The bill also will retroactively restore benefits to people who may have started losing their benefits as early as the end of May 2010. Congressman Bishop supported the legislation. “We can’t turn our back on the millions of Americans who are still struggling to find meaningful employment as the economy recovers,” said Congressman Bishop. “We must never forget that there are real people behind the numbers. They are our friends and family members; our neighbors and our acquaintances. They sit next to us in church every Sunday and they stand in line with us at the grocery store. We must ensure that these Americans receive the help they need as they look for a new job.” The U.S. House of Representatives voted on three previous occasions since May 28, 2010 to extend unemployment benefits through November 30, 2010. Each time, Congressman Bishop supported the measures while over 80% of House Republicans voted against extending the benefits. Republicans in the U.S. Senate also blocked for seven weeks the timely consideration of the unemployment insurance extension before finally approving it yesterday on a 59 to 39 vote. Today’s House passage now clears the way for the President to sign the bill into law. “Our priorities should be to boost the economy and prevent people from dropping out of the labor force altogether,” said Congressman Bishop. “For those struggling to reenter the workforce, we need to bridge the gap, so that they have access to the essentials in life that we all need – food, shelter, and clothing.” ###
07.19.2010	Washington, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-2) announced today that the United States Department of Agriculture Agricultural Research Services, Crop Genetics and Breeding Research Unit in Tifton, Georgia, in collaboration with the University of Georgia researchers at the National Environmentally Sound Production Agriculture Laboratory and the Center for Applied Genetic Technologies, has received a $1 million Federal grant for Peanut Genome Mapping and Marker Development. The Federal funds will be used to sequence and map the peanut genome and develop molecular markers that can be used in marker assisted breeding. The project aims to provide U.S. consumers with a higher quality and safer product while using fewer pesticides and less water. “This funding is great news for Georgia – for our dedicated peanut farmers, our state economy, and industry to have the best peanut products available” said Congressman Bishop. “I am pleased that the peanut genome will be studied, helping our farmers to increase productivity, develop a safer product, and reduce dependence on pesticides.” A roadmap for peanut gene organization will bring opportunities to help solve problems such as peanut allergies and to deliver new highly productive, high-quality disease-resistant varieties that can ensure sustainability of U.S. food production. “Recently, peanut allergies have been an increasing concern, factoring into the Department of Transportation’s proposed ban of peanuts on airplanes, said Congressman Bishop. “I have heard the concerns of those people with peanut allergies, and parents of children with peanut allergies, and I am confident that this research project will yield fruitful results towards helping those with this allergy.” “I have great confidence in our peanut farmers, the Crop Genetics and Breeding Research Unit in Tifton, and the University of Georgia. I have worked hard to ensure this project receives funding, and I am very proud to live up to my nickname, “the Peanut Congressman.” Georgia produces over 50% of US peanuts, $582 million per year. If aflatoxin contamination can be reduced, and disease resistance increased, peanuts will become a staple in the world food supply. The relevant genes must be identified to accomplish this quickly. Plant genetics and breeding enables Georgia farmers to grow higher quality crops such as peanuts with fewer inputs making U.S. agriculture more competitive. ###
07.16.2010	Washington, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-2) has signed on to a letter, with fifty-eight (58) other members of the Democratic Caucus – mostly Blue Dogs, urging Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi, and House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer to address federal deficit spending. The 59 Members pledged to reduce spending and pay for Congressional priorities, present and future. “I have grown increasingly concerned with the growing deficit,” said Congressman Bishop. “My colleagues and I are taking action to reduce the deficit while still stimulating our economy. We can do both, but Washington must be more fiscally conservative! While I support initiatives such as the Stimulus bill, my constituents and I want federal funds to be spent responsibly, and I feel it is time to curb excess spending and pay for the programs we have already set in place.” The letter, dated July 14, encourages deficit reduction, stresses the importance of paying for investments, and calls for fiscal responsibility with federal funds. An excerpt from the letter follows: “We recognize and understand the need for the emergency designation as narrowly defined in the statutory PAYGO law recently passed by the House and signed into law by President Obama. However, we have made a commitment to pay for our priorities. It is critical that we uphold our efforts to restore fiscal discipline to the federal government by not using this tool for anything other than it is intended – a true, unforeseen emergency. Extending critical, economic investments is no more important than paying for them. America is facing a debt crisis that is threatening to undermine our economic and national security. We can no longer afford to exacerbate the problem because the decisions about how to pay for what we spend are getting harder.” ###
07.14.2010	Washington, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-2) escorted Air Force Times Airman of the Year: MSgt Rodney C. Deese, II, of Columbus, Georgia, today at the 10th Annual Military Times Services Members of the Year Awards Ceremony, hosted by Rep. Gene Taylor (D-MS). This year’s honorees also included Army Times Soldier of the Year: SSG Zackary T. Filip; Navy Times Sailor of the Year: NC1 (SW/AW) Kylee W. Bolibrzuch; Navy Times Coast Guardsman of the Year: LCDR Richard A. Angelet; Marine Corps Times Marine of the Year: SSgt David E. Vogt, III. Winners are selected from peer nominations by readers of Army Times, Navy Times, Air Force Times and Marine Corps Times. The awards recognize service members who have made special contributions and performed dedicated, outstanding service everyday, on every level, often without fanfare or broad recognition. “MSgt Deese embodies the true spirit of our Armed Forces with his dedicated service, loyalty and devotion to his family and community,” said Congressman Bishop. “He strives to better the lives of others, and because of his amazing contributions, he is truly an everyday hero.” In past year alone, MSgt Deese has helped to build multi-national partnerships with Air Forces and services from eastern bloc countries, including 19 NATO allies. Many of his achievements are noteworthy firsts, including leading the contact team that, for the first time in DoD history, secured Air Force slots at the German Staff Noncommissioned Officers (NCO) Academy; assisting the Botswana Defense Force in building its NCO training model; and paving the way for two Romanian students to attend the Kisling NCO Academy, a first for the U.S. Air Force in Europe. In addition, Deese implemented changes at the Academy, including energy conservation efforts, earning him the 2009 HQ USAFE/DS Staff NCO of the Year Award. He recently completed his Masters Degree in Leadership with Dean’s List honors and earned the German Air Force’s Expert Marksman Award. Deese, a native of Columbus, Georgia, and his wife, Shannon, have a family of seven children. He is stationed at Kisling NCO Academy (USAFE), Kapaun Air Station, Germany (on Vogelweh Air Base), serving as the Director of Resources/First Sergeant. Left to Right: Gen Norton Schwartz, Chief of Staff of the U.S. Air Force; Melanie Gray, Air Force Times Managing Editor; MSgt Rodney C. Deese, II, Air Force Times 2010 Airman of the Year; and Congressman Bishop. ###
07.14.2010	Washington, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-2) today announced that Calhoun County will receive a $75,000 grant through the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention, part of the Department of Justice. The grant will allow Calhoun County to offer at-risk youth an opportunity to be mentored by senior citizens. “I believe that any program that helps our at-risk youth is a necessity,” said Congressman Bishop. “I am especially thrilled that this program connects youth with senior citizens. I am reminded of the phrase, ‘I wish that when I was younger, I knew what I know now,’ and I think how lucky these kids are to have this opportunity. Our seniors can teach our young people so much about life, making safe choices, and community history. This is a great opportunity for mentorship, and I am proud to have worked to ensure this grant for Calhoun County.” The program also allows Family Connection the opportunity to assess each family of these youth and direct them to local and regional resources that will assist them in becoming a more stable family while encouraging these children to succeed in school. The objectives include: 1. Reduce the number of times these youth are referred for discipline; 2. Reduce the number of unexcused school absences for these youth; 3. Increase the overall grade averages for these youth; and 4. Increase parental involvement (parents of youth in program) in these youths' academic and social life. “If we start early and get parents involved in kids’ lives in and out of school, we not only cut down on crime and drop-out rates, but we improve family life, as well,” said Congressman Bishop. “When our families are strong, our community is strong, and we have a great opportunity to strengthen family and community ties.” ###
07.02.2010	Washington, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-2) announced today that the House of Representatives passed by a vote of 239 to 182, H.R. 4899, the Supplemental Appropriations bill for FY 2010. This legislation provides $10 billion for an Education Jobs Fund, $4.95 billion for Pell Grants, $701 million for border security, $163 million for schools on military installations, $142 million in additional Gulf Coast oil spill funding, $50 million in emergency food assistance, $5.1 billion for FEMA, $37.1 billion for the war, and $13 billion in mandatory funds to Vietnam Veterans exposed to Agent Orange. Congressman Bishop supported the legislation. “As a member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense, I have been integrally involved in the oversight of our nation’s funding and support of our efforts in Iraq, Afghanistan, as well as other initiatives aimed at supporting our war fighters, said Congressman Bishop. “This Supplemental bill strikes, what I believe to be a fair and balanced approach for the emergency needs of our war fighters abroad and the critical domestic issues we face right here at home.” The bill also includes funds to settle both the Cobell v. Salazar and the Pigford v. Vilsack class action lawsuits; $1 billion for summer jobs; and also includes $31.5 million for the Farm Service Agency to cover costs associated with direct loans, guaranteed loans, operating loans and administrative expenses. In order to hold the total amount to the President’s requested level over a ten-year period, the amendment includes $11.7 billion in rescissions from programs that no longer require the funding, have sufficient funds on hand, or do not need the funding this year or next, and $4.7 billion in savings from changes to mandatory programs. In total, the amendment saves the Federal Government $493 million over ten years compared to the President’s request. ###
07.01.2010	Washington, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-2) announced today that the House of Representatives passed by a vote of 271 to 153 H.R. 5618, the Restoration of Emergency Unemployment Compensation Act, which extends through November 30, 2010 unemployment benefits to 1.7 million Americans, including 75,100 residents of the State of Georgia, who would have lost these benefits on July 3, 2010. Congressman Bishop supported the legislation. “As the economy recovers, millions of Americans are still struggling to find meaningful employment,” said Congressman Bishop. “The unemployed will not be enjoying the Fourth of July weekend if they will not be receiving their unemployment benefits. I am pleased that the House of Representatives has passed this much needed extension, and I urge the U.S. Senate to take quick action.” The Emergency Unemployment Compensation (EUC) Program began to phase out at the end of May. As a result, individuals exhausting their 26 weeks of regular unemployment benefits over the last month, or exhausting any of the tiers of Federal EUC benefits during this time, are not eligible for emergency unemployment benefits. The legislation passed today retroactively restores those benefits and continues the EUC program through November. In addition, the legislation restores full Federal funding for the permanent-law Extended Benefits program through November. ###
06.29.2010	Washington, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-2) announced today that NeighborWorks Columbus has been awarded an $87,750 grant. These appropriated funds will assist NeighborWorks Columbus in rehabilitating affordable housing and creating financing or lending tools to assist communities adversely impacted by the foreclosure crisis and the economic recession. “Recently, we have seen tough economic times, and the grant for NeighborWorks Columbus is great news for our community,” said Congressman Bishop. Everyone should have access to affordable housing, particularly those affected by the recession and the foreclosure crisis. I have worked very hard to ensure this grant for Columbus, and I look forward to seeing the improvements that will soon be made towards addressing the housing needs of Columbus.” The funding for these “Rehabilitation of Affordable Housing” grants was provided through the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2010 (P.L. 111-117), which was signed into law on December 16, 2009. The grantees are required to utilize this funding for the rehabilitation, or the financing of the rehabilitation, of affordable housing units. $35 million in federal funding has been awarded to 117 community-based NeighborWorks organizations and two NeighborWorks-affiliated capital corporations to rehabilitate, or finance the rehabilitation of, affordable housing nationwide. ###
06.24.2010	Washington, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-2) announced that the U.S. House of Representatives approved by a vote of 417 to 1 legislation to prevent the scheduled 21% reduction in Medicare physician payments through November 30, 2010, and makes the prevention retroactive to June 1, 2010. The U.S. Senate passed this measure by voice vote last Friday. Congressman Bishop supported the legislation, which is entitled “Senate Amendments to HR 3962, Preservation of Access to Care for Medicare Beneficiaries & Pension Relief Act.” “These cuts would have adversely impacted the access to health care of millions of senior citizens across the nation,” said Congressman Bishop. “Congress still needs to work towards a permanent solution to prevent any further uncertainty for patients and physicians.” The 1997 Balanced Budget Act implemented the current system used to determine physician reimbursements under Medicare Part B, which is known as the “Sustainable Growth Rate” (or SGR). A cost-control measure, the SGR sets a target each year for Medicare expenditure on physician services based on growth in the gross domestic product (GDP). If expenditures exceed the target, Medicare attempts to recoup the money by cutting physician reimbursement. The SGR has triggered such cuts every year since 2002, but Congress has prevented them from taking effect. Congressman Bishop has consistently supported legislation to block the physician payment cuts as well as to strengthen Medicare for current and future senior citizens. ###
06.23.2010	Washington, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-2) today announces that the Rural Development office of the U.S. Department of Agriculture has issued two grants totaling almost $75,000 for the Second Congressional District of Georgia. “I am very pleased to announce these two Rural Development Grants because of the great opportunities they provide for the life-blood of our district,” said Congressman Bishop. “The heart of South Georgia lies in our rural communities, and these ventures create jobs and stimulate our economy, and when our rural areas thrive, we know the country is getting back on track!” Southwest Georgia United Empowerment Zone, Inc., in Vienna, will receive a $50,000 Grant to be used for technical and financial assistance to build and grow its community-based resource development program to serve low-income rural communities in Georgia. The City of Pinehurst will receive a $22,784 Grant to be used for the renovation of the interior of the Oak Avenue Water Tower, saving an estimated thirty-three jobs through this grant’s assistance. ###
06.22.2010	Roberta, GA – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-2) reaffirmed his unwavering commitment to farmers and the agricultural industry in his remarks at Cooley Farms, Saturday, June 19, as part of the Crawford County Young Farmers Association’s 2010 Summer Tour. Congressman Bishop, noting that the average age of young farmers continues to rise, saluted the youths there for taking on that challenge and facing it head-on with this tour. He also made note of the challenges he is addressing on behalf of Georgia farmers. Chief among them is the Department of Transportation’s proposed ban of peanuts on airplanes. “How ridiculous can you get,” Congressman Bishop said. “I had to send the Secretary [of Transportation] a letter to remind him that in 1999 we passed a law which is still in effect that would prohibit anybody from banning peanuts on airlines, unless they’ve done a scientific study – peer review – and it has been submitted to Congress. None of that has happened, so I think we’re going to have to wait awhile for the Secretary [of Transportation] to get the egg off his face in that regard.” He also shared with the audience that he is working with colleagues to push the Administration to resolve issues that result in delays of agriculture exports. Congressman Bishop is co-sponsoring a bill supporting increased market access for exports of United States beef and beef-products to Japan. This week he wrote a letter to U.S. Trade Representative Ronald Kirk expressing his concern regarding the ban imposed on U.S. poultry exports to Russia, a situation that severely impacts Georgia’s poultry industry. Bishop said he has made the funding for the research labs in nearby Byron a top priority as he and his colleagues work on agricultural appropriations, and he is working with the University of Georgia to secure funding to ensure this research continues. Another example of how Bishop is looking out for farmers was his vote in support of the Tax Extenders bill. This bill, which is presently stalled in the Senate, provides agricultural relief assistance to farmers. Yesterday, Congressman Bishop called for the Senate to move forward to pass the American Jobs and Closing Tax Loopholes Act of 2010, commonly known as the Tax Extenders bill. In addition to closing tax loopholes, the measure provides assistance for 2009 agricultural losses, including specialty crops, livestock, sugar, aquaculture, cottonseed, and poultry. The Tax Extenders bill also supplies supplemental direct payments, emergency loans, and grants to states for crop or livestock producers including: a $42 million supplement for cottonseed assistance; $25 million in grants for aquaculture assistance; a $21 million payment to an agricultural transportation cooperative; $75 million in emergency loans for poultry producers; a $50 million payment for livestock producers who had grazing losses; $150 million in grants to states for specialty crop producers affected by drought; and $150 million in grants to states for specialty crop producers affected by excessive rainfall. No later than 90 days after the measure's enactment, the Department of Agriculture would be required to make grants to states to provide such assistance. The maximum grant made to a state could not exceed $40 million. In addition, the measure provides $10 million for administrative cost. “This important legislation provides much-needed agriculture disaster assistance to our farmers,” said Congressman Bishop. The Senate may feel that they can take their time with this, but our farmers are hurting and cannot continue to wait for financial relief.” ###
06.22.2010	Washington, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-2) asks for support for Georgia Peanuts in Roll Call’s “Great American Peanut Debate,” part of the annual Congressional Baseball Game. Voters are asked ‘Which state produces the best tasting peanuts?” Presently, the State of Georgia is in the lead with 39% of the vote, followed by Virginia with 30% in Second Place, and Texas with 15% in Third Place. “We all know the best tasting peanuts come from Georgia,” said Congressman Bishop. “I have always worked to do my dead-level best for our Georgia Peanut Industry, and I ask everyone to take a few minutes to show your support and vote to keep our Georgia Peanuts in the lead – where they belong!” Roll Call will host its 49th Annual Congressional Baseball Game next Tuesday, June 29 at 7:05 pm. During the game, Republicans and Democrats will take a break from swinging at each other in Congress to swing at each other on the field. To cast your vote in “The Great American Peanut Debate,” please visit https://corporate.cqrollcall.com/baseball/. ###
06.22.2010	Washington, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-2) today received a letter from Secretary of Transportation, Ray LaHood, stating that the Department of Transportation (DOT) will not ban peanuts from airplanes. The DOT clarified the proposed notice that explicitly states that the DOT will comply with Section 346 of the DOT and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 2000, Pub. L. No. 106-69. Congressman Bishop said today, “This is great news for all peanut producers, especially those in Georgia. We have a long and proud history of peanuts in Georgia, and it has been a privilege to do all I can to protect this vital part of our state’s economy.” The law requires that a peer-reviewed scientific study must be conducted first to determine that there are severe reactions by passengers to peanuts prior to issuing any prohibitive measure regarding peanuts and peanut-products on airplanes. The letter came in response to a June 10, 2010 letter from Congressman Bishop to Secretary LaHood reminding the Secretary that the DOT is prohibited from banning peanuts from airplanes. The full text of Secretary LaHood’s letter to Congressman Bishop follows: Dear Congressman Bishop: Thank you for your letter expressing your views about the U.S. Department of Transportation’s June 8 notice of proposed rulemaking covering various consumer protection issues, including greater access to air travel for persons with peanut allergies. You will be pleased to know that the Department is issuing a clarification today to the proposed notice that explicitly states that the Department will comply with Section 346 of the Department of Transportation and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 2000, Pub. L. No. 106-69. As you know, Section 346 states that no carrier will be required to provide a peanut- restricted area until 90 days after submission to both the Congress and the Secretary of a peer-reviewed scientific study that determines there are severe reactions by passengers. I have enclosed a copy of the clarification for you review. In accordance with Department rules applicable to pending proceedings, a copy of your letter and this response will be place in our rulemaking docket. If I can provide additional information or assistance, please feel free to call me. Sincerely yours, Ray LaHood ###
06.21.2010	Washington, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-2) today called for the Senate to move forward to pass the American Jobs and Closing Tax Loopholes Act of 2010, commonly known as the Tax Extenders bill. In addition to closing tax loopholes, the measure provides assistance for 2009 agricultural losses, including specialty crops, livestock, sugar, aquaculture, cottonseed, and poultry. The House of Representatives passed the bill in May prior to the Memorial Day District Work Period, and since then, the bill has been facing opposition in the Senate. “Back in May, I voted along with the majority of my colleagues to pass the Tax Extenders bill. I am very proud to support this legislation which strengthens America’s workforce and provides much-needed agriculture disaster assistance,” said Congressman Bishop. “I am very pleased to have worked with my colleagues in the Blue Dog Coalition to ensure that the funding provided in this bill is narrowly focused to where it is needed most – providing assistance to our agricultural community, putting Americans to work, and stimulating the economy.” The Tax Extenders bill also supplies supplemental direct payments, emergency loans, and grants to states for crop or livestock producers including: a $42 million supplement for cottonseed assistance; $25 million in grants for aquaculture assistance; a $21 million payment to an agricultural transportation cooperative; $75 million in emergency loans for poultry producers; a $50 million payment for livestock producers who had grazing losses; $150 million in grants to states for specialty crop producers affected by drought; and $150 million in grants to states for specialty crop producers affected by excessive rainfall. No later than 90 days after the measure's enactment, the Department of Agriculture would be required to make grants to states to provide such assistance. The maximum grant made to a state could not exceed $40 million. In addition, the measure provides $10 million for administrative cost. “This important legislation provides much-needed agriculture disaster assistance to our farmers,” said Congressman Bishop. The Senate may feel that they can take their time with this, but our farmers are hurting and cannot continue to wait for financial relief.” ###
06.17.2010	Washington, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-2) today announced that the Department of Labor (DoL) has granted an extension of the CAA MilSpouse program to the 700 spouses at Fort Benning, with $2.8 million in tuition assistance. Additionally, the DoL included 200 more spouses in the program, for a total of 900 Fort Benning spouses who will receive tuition assistance. In May 2010 there was an abrupt shut down of the CAA MilSpouse program with no explanation from the DoL or the Department of Defense (DoD). However, the program was extended for seven of the original eight states, with the exclusion of the State of Georgia. Shortly after learning that 700 military spouses from Fort Benning did not receive an extension, Congressman Bishop took quick action, sending a letter to the Assistant Secretary of Labor, Jane Oates, urging her to extend the resources to the Fort Benning military spouses. “I would be grateful for your thoughtful reconsideration of extending this grant program at Fort Benning for another year. At the very minimum, please ensure that the 700 current spouses at Fort Benning, who are in the middle of their education and training and are being funded by the CAA MilSpouse program, do not lose this vital assistance,” Congressman Bishop said in a letter dated June 7, 2010. “The CAA MilSpouse program provides the vital support that military spouses need to succeed in their lives and in their careers.” The CAA MilSpouse program was launched in November 2007 as a pilot by the DoL and the DoD and was designed to help military spouses obtain certification and credentials in high demand, high-growth, portable careers. The program provided flexible education funding accounts that pay up to $3,000 a year for tuition, fees, books, equipment, credentialing and licensing fees for spouses in eight states. The CAA Mil Spouse pilot program for spouses of service members were assigned to the following military states and installations: • California: Camp Pendleton (Marine Corps); Naval Base San Diego Metro (Navy) • Colorado: Fort Carson (Army); Peterson AFB (Air Force) • Florida: Eglin AFB (Air Force); Hurlburt Field (Air Force); NAS Jacksonville (Navy) • Georgia: Fort Benning (Army) 700 spouses • Hawaii: Hickam AFB (Air Force); Kaneohe Bay (Marine Corps); Pearl Harbor (Navy); Schofield Barracks (Army) • Maine: NAS Brunswick (Navy) • North Carolina: Fort Bragg (Army); Pope AFB (Air Force) • Washington: McCord AFB (Air Force); Fort Lewis (Army); Naval Base Kitsap (Navy) The full text of Congressman Bishop’s letter to Assistant Secretary Oates follows: June 7, 2010 The Honorable Jane Oates Assistant Secretary Department of Labor Employment and Training Services 200 Constitution Ave., NW Washington, DC 20210 Dear Assistant Secretary Oates: I recently learned of the Department of Labor’s decision not to extend the Career Advancement Account (CAA) MilSpouse grant that supports the spouses of active duty service members at Fort Benning, Georgia. As you know, this program has been extremely important and essential to military installations and military spouses. I would be grateful for your thoughtful reconsideration of extending this grant program at Fort Benning for another year. At the very minimum, please ensure that the 700 current spouses at Fort Benning, who are in the middle of their education and training and are being funded by the CAA MilSpouse program, do not lose this vital assistance. While I recognize there are HOPE Scholarships and Workforce Investment Act (WIA) funding as possible secondary resources, many of the spouses would still not qualify for them. Additionally, it will require spouses to reapply, hereby causing additional stress while their loved ones are enduring their second and third deployments. As you know, military spouses often like to follow traditional education paths. Their lifestyle, however, prevents them from doing so. Many spouses access online courses as opposed to enrolling in semester-long “in person” courses to better suit their family needs. The CAA MilSpouse program provides the vital support that military spouses need to succeed in their lives and in their careers. Let me thank you in advance for your attention to this matter. I would be grateful for your consideration of this important issue, and I look forward to your response. ###
06.16.2010	Washington, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-2) today sent a letter to U.S. Trade Representative Ronald Kirk urging him to support the Georgia Poultry industry. Congressman Bishop reminded Ambassador Kirk that the State of Georgia is the nation’s number one poultry exporter, with over $555 million of poultry exported from the state annually. Since January of this year, poultry exports to Russia have ceased as a result of a Russian ban on the use of hyper-chlorinated water in poultry processing. Since the issuance of the ban, U.S. poultry producers have substituted chlorine with alternative anti-microbial agents. However, Russia still prohibits poultry importation. The current ban has potential for economic disaster for the Second Congressional District, as well as the state of Georgia. In an effort to resume poultry export with Russia, Congressman Bishop requested that Ambassador Kirk bring the issue to the attention of President Obama for consideration at the impending G8 Summit. Congressman Bishop said in a letter dated June 16, 2010, that “a continued ban on U.S. poultry exports to Russia would not only have a direct and dramatic impact on our State, but also my Congressional District, which is the third largest poultry producer in the State of Georgia, and twenty-second nation-wide, with over $447 million in total production.” “It is absolutely vital that our two nations resume poultry trade. As such, I would like to urge you to include this important issue on the agenda when President Obama meets with Russian President Dmitry Medvedev for the upcoming G8 Summit.” The full text of Congressman Bishop’s letter to Ambassador Kirk follows: June 16, 2010 The Honorable Ronald Kirk United States Trade Representative 600 Seventeenth Street, NW Washington, D.C. 20508 Dear Ambassador Kirk: I am writing this letter to express my concern regarding the current ban imposed on United States poultry exports to Russia. On January 1, 2010, Russia enforced a regulation that prohibited the use of hyper-chlorinated water in the processing of poultry products. In a good faith effort to comply with the wishes of the Russian Government in this matter, the U.S Poultry Industry substituted chlorine with alternative anti-microbial agents. It is our understanding that this change meets or exceeds the Russian Government’s regulations in this regard. However, despite the U.S. Poultry Industry’s good faith efforts, our two nations have not been able to reach a satisfactory poultry trade agreement. As a result, all U.S. poultry exports to Russia have come to a halt since January. Total U.S. poultry trade with Russia amounted to over $1.4 billion annually and has become a critical market for the U.S. Poultry Industry and major producer states. In the State of Georgia, for example, the total value of poultry production amounts to $3.9 billion - - the largest in the nation. However, Georgia is also the number one poultry exporter in the nation, with over $555 million in annual exports. More importantly, a continued ban on U.S. poultry exports to Russia would not only have a direct and dramatic impact on our State, but also my Congressional District, which is the third largest poultry producer in the State of Georgia, and twenty-second nation-wide, with over $447 million in total production. It is absolutely vital that our two nations resume poultry trade. As such, I would like to urge you to include this important issue on the agenda when President Obama meets with Russian President Dmitry Medvedev for the upcoming G8 Summit. Thank you for your attention to this matter, and should you have any questions or need additional information, please do not hesitate to contact me. ###
06.16.2010	Washington, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-2) today attended a joint Congressional briefing hosted by the Military Family Caucus for the release of the National Military Family Association’s and the RAND Corporation’s groundbreaking study examining the impact of deployment on military families. The detailed briefing included legislative recommendations for supporting military families during various stages of deployment, as well as information to update Congressional staff and military families on available resources. Service members and their families were invited to participate. Specific focus was given to children with firsthand experience dealing with parental deployments. The results of the study by the RAND Corporation found higher rates of anxiety among children of military families than children not in military families. In addition, children whose parents were deployed in the previous three years were more likely to have problems at school and home while dealing with a parent’s absence. Military Family Caucus Co-Chairs Congressman Bishop and Congresswoman Cathy McMorris-Rodgers (R-WA, 5), along with Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA), spoke about Congressional responsibility to military families and their children. Congressman Bishop pledged support for military families saying, “my colleagues and I will do all we can to utilize this information to ensure proper care for these families.” “Our military families are one of our country’s greatest assets, and as President Herbert Hoover said, ‘Our children are our most valuable natural resource.’ Therefore, we must do all we can to ensure healthy, normal lives for these children of our military families.” ###
06.10.2010	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-2) today announced that Medicare will begin to mail $250 ‘donut hole’ checks to tens of thousands of senior citizens starting today. Under the recently enacted Health Reform law, seniors who fall in the “donut hole” coverage gap in 2010 will receive this one-time tax-free $250 rebate check. These checks will continue to be mailed monthly over the next several months. The checks are just the first benefit from Health Reform for seniors in the Medicare Prescription Drug program. Beginning in January 2011, seniors in the donut hole will receive a 50% discount on brand name drugs. By 2020, the donut hole will be completely closed. “Many people spend thousands of dollars each year on prescription drug costs. This check is a down-payment on reducing prescription drug costs for seniors and eventually closing the ‘donut hole’ altogether,” Congressman Bishop said. “This is the first example of how the Health Care Reform bill strengthens Medicare and helps seniors.” Medicare recipients do not have to do anything to receive the $250 check. Once their drug costs for the year hit $2,830, the one-time check will be issued automatically. However, Congressman Bishop warns seniors to beware of potential fraud. “We have already seen census scams this year, which caused confusion, especially for our senior citizens,” said Congressman Bishop. “I hope people will take caution when reading mail regarding the checks.” Affordable prescription drugs for seniors are one of many benefits in the new Health Reform law. Other benefits for seniors include: • Provides free preventive care services under Medicare, beginning in 2011. • Strengthens Medicare by extending its solvency by an additional 12 years, from 2017 to 2029. • Improves seniors’ access to doctors. • Continues to reduce waste, fraud and abuse. • Improves care by helping doctors communicate and coordinate. • Expands home and community-based services to keep seniors in their home, instead of in nursing homes. The “donut hole” coverage gap is the period in the prescription drug benefit (once their prescription drug costs exceed $2,830) in which the beneficiary pays 100 percent of the cost of their drugs until they hit the catastrophic coverage threshold. Last year, roughly 97,800 Medicare beneficiaries in the State of Georgia and 6,600 in the Second Congressional District fell in the “donut hole” and received no extra help to defray the cost of their prescription drugs. Under the new Health Reform help is on the way. ###
06.10.2010	Washington, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-2) today sent a letter to Secretary of Transportation, Ray LaHood, urging him to cease the proposed ban of peanuts on airplanes. Congressman Bishop reminded Secretary LaHood that in 1998, Congress prohibited the Department of Transportation (DOT) from banning peanuts unless justified through a peer-reviewed scientific study, when the DOT first tried to ban peanuts and peanut products on airplanes. Today, Congressman Bishop also joined a bi-partisan effort led by Congressman Jim Marshall (GA-8) calling on Secretary LaHood to reconsider the proposed peanut ban. The full text of Congressman Bishop’s letter to Secretary LaHood follows: Dear Secretary LaHood: I am writing today to express my opposition to the U.S. Department of Transportation’s (DOT) call to possibly ban peanuts and peanut products on commercial airlines as part of its proposed regulation “Enhancing Airline Passenger Protections.” As you know, Congress has spoken to this issue in the past, as a result of the DOT proposing a similar effort through an industry advisory letter in 1998. However, it would appear that the approved bill language contained in the Fiscal Year 2000 Transportation Appropriations and Related Agencies bill prohibiting the DOT from further bans on peanuts until a peer-reviewed scientific study justified such a ban, may be still in effect. Further, I am very concerned that the DOT would focus solely on peanuts in the proposed rule. Out of the 12 million Americans who suffer from food allergies (1 in 25 people have food allergies) milk is the most common allergen, followed by eggs and then peanuts. Just as important, approximately 30 million Americans are allergic to cats, while 15 million are allergic to dogs. According to the Asthma and Allergy Foundation of America (AAFA), approximately one percent of the U.S. population, or three million Americans, have peanut allergies. Why doesn’t the DOT’s proposed rule also ban milk and milk products? Why didn’t the rule include a ban eggs or foods containing eggs? Or for that matter, why doesn’t the DOT ban the travel of all dogs and cats, particularly within the passenger cabins of commercial planes? While I am certainly not proposing that any of these be included in any future DOT rule, each affects millions more Americans than peanuts! Just as important is the question of passengers who might wish to enter a plane with peanut products in their possession. Would the proposed ban on peanuts prohibit passengers from bringing peanut products on-board? And as a practical matter, how would such a ban be enforced with respect to passengers? What would be the penalty for a passenger caught with a Snickers Bar on a plane under the proposed rule? Finally, while I am sensitive to this issue and understand the challenges presented to individuals where exposure to peanuts can potentially cause severe allergic reactions, I do not believe this issue rises to, or meets, the threshold for new Federal regulatory intervention. Thank you for your attention to this matter, and should you have any questions regarding this matter, do not hesitate to contact me. ###
06.03.2010	Albany, GA – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-2) today issued the following statement in response to the suggested Department of Transportation Airplane Peanut Ban: “I am shocked and concerned about the excessive regulations proposed by the Department of Transportation regarding peanuts on airplanes. Given Congress’ response in the past, I am surprised that the Department of Transportation is trying this again.” “I represent one of the largest peanut producing regions in the country, and I look forward to working with my colleagues to end another example of extreme government regulation, and I am hopeful that we will prevail.” ###
06.02.2010	Columbus, GA – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-2) today presented Major General Jerry A. White (Retired) with the Civilian Marksmanship Program’s (CMP) Patriot Award at the National Infantry Museum and Soldier Center in Columbus, GA. General White’s experience includes over 30 years in the U.S. Army and over 15 years as a leader in the U.S. military community. General White has held a wide variety of key command and staff positions in the U.S. Army to include Commander of the United States Army Infantry Center, Fort Benning, Georgia; Commander of the 7th Infantry Division (Light), Fort Ord, California; Director of Operations, J-3, Forces Command, Atlanta, Georgia; Assistant Division Commander (Support), 7th Infantry Division (Light), Fort Ord, California; Commanding General, 2d Reserve Officer Training Corps Region, Fort Knox, Kentucky; Team Chief, National Military Command Center with the Organization of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Washington, DC; and Chief of Staff and Commander, 1st Brigade, 25th Infantry Division, Schofield Barracks, Hawaii. General White served two tours in Vietnam. General White retired from the Army in November of 1994. In 1995, He returned to Columbus to serve as the President of United Way of the Chattahoochee Valley until 2002. General White now serves as the President of the National Infantry Association and Chairman of the National Infantry Foundation. He is a member of the Downtown Rotary Club and serves on many local boards and councils. The Civilian Marksmanship Program (CMP) is a national organization dedicated to training and educating U. S. citizens in responsible uses of firearms and air guns through gun safety training, marksmanship training and competitions. The CMP is a federally chartered 501(c)(3) corporation that places its highest priority on serving youth through gun safety and marksmanship activities that encourage personal growth and build life skills. CMP history goes back to late 19th century efforts by U.S. military and political leaders to strengthen our country’s national defense capabilities by improving the rifle marksmanship skills of members of the Armed Forces. The CMP traces its direct lineage to 1903 when Congress and President Theodore Roosevelt established the National Board for the Promotion of Rifle Practice (NBPRP) and the National Matches. From then until 1996, first the Department of War and later the Department of the Army managed the program that became known as the “civilian marksmanship program.” During this period, program objectives shifted from military marksmanship to training civilians who might serve in the military to developing youth through marksmanship training. In 1996, Congress acted again to establish the Corporation for the Promotion of Rifle Practice and Firearm Safety that now governs the CMP. The CMP actively assists the mission of our armed services. As such, the organization created the Patriots Program, where outstanding citizens are recognized for their contributions to our country. The Patriot Award is represented by the presentation of an actual M1 Garand, the rifle that, along with the G.I. and Rosie the Riveter, won WWII. Mr. Charlie Maddox presented the rifle to General White along with Congressman Bishop. Mr. Maddox, who is the Chief Executive Officer of the CMP, is a former Paratrooper and Korean War veteran. He also serves as the Civilian Aide to the Secretary of the Army Emeritus. ###
06.01.2010	Cairo, GA – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-2) today celebrated the official issuance of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers permit for Tired Creek in Grady County. Congressman Bishop marked the occasion as a great milestone, having personally been involved with the Tired Creek project for many years. Congressman Bishop said: “There is an old proverb that says, “Do not cast your nets in rivers where there are no fish.” And I know there were times when it seemed that no permit would be issued, and that seeking the permit was like casting our nets in a river without fish. Today, we have proved this wrong – we caught a big fish! And as a result, we’ll soon see a 900-acre residential lake full of fish! This is a lesson in persistence – we are here today to celebrate the hard work and persistence of many people. Everyone here has contributed something to this project, and I am honored to be among you. I look forward to hearing from you, as you share your stories of teaching your children and grandchildren to fish in Tired Creek. And I hope they, too, will teach their children and grandchildren to fish in Tired Creek. I hope this will become a place with many happy memories for everyone in Grady County. And when you teach your children to fish, remember today, remember our persistence and our belief in the Tired Creek project. And teach your children that you can cast your nets where there are seemingly no fish, because if you’re persistent, you will reel in a catch.” In April, Congressman Bishop met at Tired Creek with officials from Grady County, the Environmental Protection Agency, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Florida Fish and Wildlife, Georgia Environmental Protection Division, and other constituents to discuss the project in an effort to revive stalled negotiations regarding the issuance of the permit. Today’s celebration centered around the formal presentation of the permit, and included Congressman Bishop, Grady County Commissioners, and other local officials. ###
05.31.2010	Albany, GA – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-2) commemorated this Memorial Day Weekend speaking at Andersonville National Historic Site’s Annual Memorial Day Observance in Andersonville, GA, and American Legion Posts 30 and 512 in Albany, GA. Congressman Bishop paused from his busy District Work Period schedule to honor the more than 770,000 veterans living in the state of Georgia, and the more than 170 brave men and women from Georgia who gave their lives in the Iraq and Afghanistan Wars. “Every day, these brave men and women fight for our freedom, Congressman Bishop said. “Therefore, we must remember their contributions and sacrifices not just on Memorial Day – but every day.” Since 2001, 55,528 Georgia residents have deployed to Iraq and Afghanistan. Of these 172, soldiers have lost their lives and 1,101 have been wounded. Congressman Bishop is a member of the House Appropriations Committee and Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans Affairs and Co-Chair of the Congressional Military Family Caucus. He has also served on the House Veterans Affairs Committee. ###
05.27.2010	Washington, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-2) today pledged his support to ensuring that the proposed Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Veterans Center for Columbus, GA becomes a reality. Congressman Bishop issued the following statement: “George Washington said ‘the morale and strength of a new nation’s military forces would be directly proportional to how well veterans who had served and sacrificed for the country were treated and appreciated,’ and I cannot agree more.” “Our veterans have served our communities and our country, and we must do everything we can to ensure they are cared for in every way. I pledge to continue to do all I can in Washington to ensure a Veterans Center is set up and fully supported in Columbus. The military is part of the foundation of freedom; my colleagues and I in Congress are the trustees.” As a member of the House Appropriations Committee and Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans Affairs (MilCon), Congressman Bishop has been urging both departments to consider creating a new veterans health facility in Columbus for several years. Congressman Bishop has been working with both the VA and the Department of Defense (DoD) on developing a plan to develop a Veterans Center in Columbus. Congressman Bishop is a member of the House Appropriations Committee and Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans Affairs and Co-Chair of the Congressional Military Family Caucus. He has also served on the House Veterans Affairs Committee. ###
05.27.2010	Washington, DC – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-2) today issued the following statement on the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers permit for Tired Creek: “I am very pleased that the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers has issued the permit for the Tired Creek project. I have been working on this project with Grady County officials for many years now, so it is exciting to see our efforts come to fruition with the issuance of this permit. It is my hope that this project will stimulate the Grady County economy and community well-being, so I look forward to seeing the development as it progresses and the success of Tired Creek.” Earlier this month, Congressman Bishop met at Tired Creek with officials from Grady County, the Environmental Protection Agency, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Florida Fish and Wildlife, Georgia Environmental Protection Division, and other constituents to discuss the project in an effort to revive stalled negotiations regarding the issuance of the permit. ###
05.22.2010	Albany, GA – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-2) today celebrated the Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW) Loyalty Day at VFW Post 2785 along with Mayor Adams and other distinguished guests. Congressman Bishop thanked the assembled Veterans and their families for their dedication and their service to the community and the country. “America cannot thank you enough for your selfless contributions,” said Congressman Bishop. “And I cannot thank you enough for your unfaltering dedication. Many of you here today have fought for, won, and helped preserve the freedom that we all enjoy today. The military is part of the foundation of freedom; my colleagues and I in Congress are the trustees.” “As such, I pledge to do my dead-level best to leave this world better than I found it, safe for your children, your grandchildren, and the many generations yet to come. Your service is vital to our community, our state, and our country as a whole.” Congressman Bishop is a member of the House Appropriations Committee and Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans Affairs and Co-Chair of the Congressional Military Family Caucus. He has also served on the House Veterans Affairs Committee. The VFW is an organization of war veterans committed to ensuring rights, remembering sacrifices, promoting patriotism, performing community services, and advocating for a strong national defense. In 1914, two organizations merged to form the VFW of the United States: the American Veterans of Foreign Service and the National Society of the Army of the Philippines. Both original organizations were founded in 1899. In 1936, the VWF received a Congressional Charter. ###
05.20.2010	ALBANY, GA – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-2) today praised the steps taken by the Marine Corps Logistics Base (MCLB) Albany together with Chevron Energy Solutions as they broke ground for the construction of the first landfill gas cogeneration project by the Department of the Navy. Today’s ground breaking marks the first step in compliance with the EPAct of 2005 and Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007, which mandate a 7.5 percent renewable power use by 2013. Through the new landfill gas project, MCLB Albany will use 19 percent of renewable power. “This is a great step in working towards meeting the Department of Defense’s goal of reducing its use of carbon-based/non-renewable fuels,” said Congressman Bishop. “Since Southwest Georgia is home to Ft. Benning, Moody Air Force Base, and Robins Air Force Base, it’s important for each to start the process of reducing non-renewable energy usage on our military bases, and I am confident the success of MCLB will set a standard that will soon be followed and upheld by the other bases in Southwest Georgia. In addition to improving our environment, the new construction is creating jobs our area desperately needs, providing benefits to our community on many levels.” Dougherty County will extract landfill gas from the Fleming/Gaissert Road Landfill, which receives approximately 100,000 tons of municipal solid waste each year. The biological decomposition of the waste generates landfill gas that is approximately 50 percent methane gas by volume. This gas will be sold to MCLB. By burning the collected landfill gas, cogeneration will produce approximately 1.9 megawatts of renewable electric power and steam. In addition, 82 buildings will undergo lighting retrofits. These measures will reduce MCLB’s carbon emissions by over 19,000 tons annually, which is equivilant to removing 16,000 cars from the road. Chevron Energy Solutions developed and designed the project and will maintain the landfill gas-to-energy facility, pipeline and landfill gas processing equipment. The new facility will house a dual-fuel engine generator, a stack heat recovery steam generator and two dual-fuel boilers. The primary equipment can operate on landfill gas or natural gas, which provides energy security benefits. ###
05.12.2010	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-2) spoke last night at a dinner hosted by the National Military Family Association (NMFA) at the Georgetown University Hotel for a group of 150, including Military and Veteran members, leaders, advocacy groups, and families. The NMFA brought together leading experts in the fields of military family support, childhood development, women’s issues, and behavioral health during the two day summit: When Parents Deploy: Understanding the Experiences of Military Children and Spouses. Last night’s dinner served as the commencement of the summit. Guests of the dinner included Military Family Caucus (MFC) Co-Chairs, Congressman Bishop and Congresswoman Cathy McMorris-Rodgers, summit panelists, and members of the NMFA’s Board of Governors and Board of Advisors. In his speech, Congressman Bishop emphasized the importance of Military families and the goals of the MFC, which Representatives Bishop and McMorris-Rodgers created to serve the interests of the family members of service members through educating Members of Congress and their staff on the challenges facing these Military families. “We formed the Military Family Caucus to highlight the commitment and increasing sacrifice our Military families make everyday, Congressman Bishop said.” “We want to bring to the forefront the special challenges they face with regard to such issues as health care, education, employment, housing, and child care.” Congressman Bishop said he is confident that Veterans’ organizations, the NMFA, and the MFC can provide excellent resources for Military families regarding mental health care, child development facilities, schools, and housing. ###
05.07.2010	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (D-GA02) announced today that Georgia’s Second Congressional District has received $336,269,998 under the Recovery Act between February 17, 2009 and March 31, 2010. This amount represents a $62 million increase since December 31, 2009. “The impact of the Recovery Act continues to be felt in every corner of Southwest Georgia,” said Congressman Bishop. “With these funds, we are creating new jobs and saving existing ones. We also are improving drinking water, constructing new roads, bolstering our rural health care infrastructure, strengthening our schools, and improving the quality of life for all of the residents of the Second Congressional District.” Of this amount, 449 were grants totaling $288,677,108; 85 were contracts totaling $45,406,395; and two were loans totaling $2,186,500. All thirty-two counties in the Second Congressional District have received Recovery Act funds. Congress passed the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 on February 13, 2009 in direct response to the economic crisis. The legislation was signed into law on February 17, 2009. The Recovery Act has three immediate goals: to create new jobs and maintain existing ones; promote economic activity and invest in long-term growth; and encourage unprecedented levels of accountability and transparency in government spending. The data, available at https://www.recovery.gov, is collected from reports submitted in April 2010 by recipients of federal contracts, grants, and loans awarded to date. ###
05.06.2010	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-2) praised the work of educators to commemorate Teacher Appreciation Week, which is celebrated this year from May 3-7. Coming from a family of educators, Congressman Bishop highlighted his understanding of the commitments and contributions teachers make to society. In recognition of this involvement, he said, “Teachers are heroes in our communities. None of us in Congress would be where we are today without the influence of those teachers who shaped our lives.” Congressman Bishop then quoted Benjamin Franklin, saying, “An investment in education pays the best dividends. It is our teachers who are responsible for the value of that investment, and I urge all of my colleagues to join me in commemorating them for their outstanding work.” In 1980, Congress officially declared a National Teacher Day, celebrated this year on May 4. Teacher Appreciation Week was founded in 1985 by the Parent Teacher Association, and celebrates its 25th Anniversary this year. Full Text of Congressman Bishop’s Statement Follows: MR. BISHOP (GA) – Madame Speaker, I am pleased to support this resolution to commemorate National Teacher Appreciation Week and to recognize the importance of teachers in ensuring that Americans receive a quality education. Teachers are heroes in our communities. None of us in Congress would be where we are today without the influence of those teachers who shaped our lives. They corrected us when we were wrong and they praised us when we were right. They taught us how to read and write, think critically, add and subtract, and they opened our minds to past events, scientific discoveries, and different cultures and civilizations. They encouraged us to follow our dreams and inspired us to reach our full potential. My parents were educators in this vein. My father served as the first President of Bishop College in Mobile, Alabama, and my mother worked as a librarian. I saw through them how our teachers work miracles in the classroom day in and day out. They truly deserve the strongest praise we have to offer. Benjamin Franklin once said that “An investment in education pays the best dividends.” It is our teachers who are responsible for the value of that investment, and I urge all of my colleagues to join me in commemorating them for their outstanding work. ###
05.03.2010	Cairo, GA - On Friday, April 30, 2010, Congressman Sanford Bishop met with officials from Grady County, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (Corps), Florida Fish and Wildlife, Georgia Environmental Protection Division, and other constituents to discuss a Section 404 Permit for the construction of a 960-acre lake to meet the fishing needs of Grady County and surrounding areas. Congressman Bishop and the participants held a meeting at the Grady County Chamber of Commerce and subsequently made an on-site visit to the point on Tired Creek where the dam for the reservoir is to be constructed. “The federal government has been working on this project since the 1930s, initially proposing to use the property to develop a lake and a park,” said Bishop. “Grady County is now trying to get a permit to develop the lake and I just want the issue resolved in a way that is most beneficial to the people in the Grady County area.” In a letter to the Corps dated April 20, 2010, the EPA recommended that the permit for the proposed lake project be denied based on the EPA’s concerns regarding several issues with the project; specifically, the need for the project, clarification of water quality issues, mitigation properties, and degradation of the property surrounding the lake. Grady County officials responded to the EPA in a letter to the Corps dated April 29, 2010, stating that the County had satisfied all established standards and requested a favorable permit decision from the Corps. Based upon the information presented at Friday’s meeting, the Corps of Engineers is expected to meet this week with the EPA to address those issues and the possibility of issuing a permit. At this point, the outcome is unclear; however, the Grady County delegation remains optimistic.
04.30.2010	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-2) announced that the Department of Veterans Affairs will start taking applications May 1st for The Marine Gunnery Sergeant John David Fry Scholarship, which Congress passed and was signed into law last year. The “Fry scholarship” expands the New GI Bill education benefits to cover the full cost of a college education for all of the children of service members who have died on active duty on or after September 11, 2001. Congressman Bishop, said, “This legislation honors the sacrifice of our military families, who are truly the unsung heroes of our nation’s defense. No one is more deserving of our nation’s support than children whose moms or dads have given their lives in military service to our nation.” Fry Scholarship •All children of members of the Armed Forces who have died in the line of duty while on active duty on or after September 11, 2001, are eligible for 36 months of tuition and fees up to the maximum in-state tuition and as well as a monthly living stipend, and book allowance. •The VA will begin accepting applications for this benefit tomorrow, May 1, 2010. •The benefit took effect August 1, 2009, and the VA must begin making payments no later than August 1, 2010 with retroactive payments for children enrolled in college from August 1, 2009 through July 31, 2010. •Surviving military children have 15 years to use their benefits, beginning on their 18th birthdays. •For more information, visit the VA website at https://www.gibill.va.gov or call 1-888-GIBILL-1 (1-88-442-4551) •VA estimates 1,500 military children will be eligible for the Fry scholarship in 2010. This provision, authored by Rep. Chet Edwards, was enacted as part of the Supplemental Appropriations Act in 2009 in honor of Marine Gunnery Sergeant John David Fry, 28, a Texas native who died in Iraq in 2006 while disarming an explosive. He is survived by three young children. This legislation builds on a record of accomplishments for our veterans and members of the military -- including the new G.I. Bill to provide returning troops with the promise of a college education; historic investments in veterans’ health care and providing that funding one year in advance to prevent political or legislative delays; expanding economic opportunities for returning soldiers and improving care for those with PTSD; and “landmark legislation” providing support to family members and others who care for wounded veterans and enhancing health services for the 1.8 million women veterans. ###
04.30.2010	Blakely, GA – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-2) today addressed health care professionals and guests at the Early County Department of Health Open House and toured the newly renovated facility. The recent renovations to the Department of Health were made possible through Stimulus funding through the 2009 American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. Congressman Bishop said, “I am very pleased to see that Early County used some of its Stimulus money to renovate the Health Department, so that we all get to see first-hand the improvements that have been made as a result of these funds.” Congressman Bishop also spoke about rural community health centers, which will receive $11 billion over the next five years as a provision of the Health Care bill that was signed into law in March. Congressman Bishop said, “There are many [provisions] that are beneficial to our area – The bill also provides new incentives to increase the number of primary care doctors, nurses, nurse practitioners, and physician assistants.” ###
04.29.2010	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-2) issued a statement today regarding the decision by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to make employer-provided health coverage for adult children under the age of 27 tax-free for Georgians. These changes immediately allow employers with cafeteria plans – plans that allow employees to choose from a menu of tax-free benefit options and cash or taxable benefits – to permit employees to begin making pre-tax contributions to pay for this expanded benefit. “As we put health insurance reform in place, I will fight to put in place the best deal for America’s families,” said Congressman Bishop. “We have seen the health insurance companies move swiftly to make coverage available as children are graduating from college this Spring—and now further steps are being taken to implement quickly the reform signed into law in March.” A key provision of health care reform requires health plans to allow young adults under the age of 26 to remain on their parents’ insurance policy, at the parents’ choice, effective in September 2010. In the last two weeks, more than 65 health insurance companies have agreed to implement this key provision early. This early implementation will avoid gaps in coverage for many graduating college seniors and certain other young adults and save on insurance company administrative costs of un-enrolling and re-enrolling them between May 2010 and September 23, 2010. Another step forward in the work to provide coverage to young adults has been taken, with the release of new guidance from the Internal Revenue Service on its implementation of a related provision in the health care reform legislation. Effective March 30, 2010, this provision states that workplace and retiree health insurance plans can now allow parents to add their adult children under age 27 to their health coverage on a tax-free basis. In its release, the IRS said, “These changes give employers a unique opportunity to offer a worthwhile benefit to their employees. We want to make it as easy as possible for employers to quickly implement this change and extend health coverage on a tax-favored basis to older children of their employees.” The net effect of these two provisions is that, beginning in September 2010, it will be mandatory for health plans to allow adult children to remain on their parents’ policy up until age 26 – while employers and employees will have a voluntary option to have adult children to remain on the policy on a tax-free basis up until age 27. Please see the IRS Release for more information. ###
04.21.2010	
04.21.2010	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) stressed the importance of World Malaria Day, which will be commemorated this year on April 25th. “Recently, there has been significant progress in the fight against malaria. The U.S. government provided 15.6 million artemisinin-based combination therapies (ACTs) to treat acute malarial illnesses in 2008 alone,” Bishop said. “As a result of increased efforts to provide life-saving treatment and prevention efforts, countries like Rwanda and Zambia have achieved great success. In fact, the prevalence of malaria fell by 53% in Zambia from 2006 to 2008.” “I urge my colleagues to join me in recognizing World Malaria Day and in raising awareness about this disease, so that together we can win the fight against malaria.” Malaria causes 350-500 million infections and kills nearly one million people throughout the world each year. ###
04.20.2010	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sanford Bishop issued the following statement on the passing of Dr. Dorothy Irene Height: “I was deeply saddened to hear of the passing of my dear friend and neighbor, Dr. Dorothy Irene Height. Dr. Height, throughout her life, worked tirelessly for civil rights and women’s rights; and her impact on both is unparalleled. “My wife, Vivian, and I send our heartfelt condolences to her loved ones, as well as to all who were touched by her immense legacy. Dr. Height will be missed by us all.” ###
04.16.2010	Atlanta, GA – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) today accepted the Georgia State Association Civil Liberties Award at the annual Georgia State Association of Elks’ Civil Liberties Luncheon. The award is given annually to the keynote speaker at the Luncheon, and Congressman Bishop was honored for his distinguished service to Georgia’s Second Congressional District. “Your work and service to the community is vital to the health of our nation. You have improved the lives of so many individuals in our state and enabled them to pursue their dreams to the best of their abilities,” Bishop said. “I commend you for your dedicated service … The members of our communities, the young and the old, veterans and civilians, all benefit from your incredible contributions, and it is an honor for me to defend their liberties.” Congressman Bishop also talked about his experience competing in the Elks’ Oratorical Competitions while in high school, and thanked them for introducing him to public speaking. The luncheon and award presentation was held this afternoon at the Wyndham Hotel in Atlanta. ###
04.13.2010	Ft. Valley, GA – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) presented a Congressional update to constituents in Peach County today at Ft. Valley State University's 28th Annual Ham & Eggs Breakfast. Mr. Bishop focused on benefits the Health Care and Stimulus bills provide Southwest Georgia. Highlighting the benefits of the Stimulus bill for Peach County, Congressman Bishop said, “These projects invigorate Southwest Georgia. They provide jobs and improve our infrastructure, while propelling even more economic growth in the future.” “Right here in Peach County, Ft. Valley State University received a $185,385 grant through the Department of Health and Human Services. The Ft. Valley Housing Authority received a $187,632 grant from Housing and Urban Development, and the City of Ft. Valley received a $99,999 USDA Rural Development Business Enterprise Grant.” The Ham & Eggs Breakfast was the last event in the Second Congressional District Representative Bishop attended during the Congressional Easter Recess. Mr. Bishop returned to Washington today to resume working on legislation. Congressman Bishop described the legislative period prior to the Easter Recess as “one of the most historic in the nation’s history,” and expressed his confidence that in the coming weeks, “Congress will take further action on the jobs front.” For more information on Health Care Reform and the Stimulus bill, please visit https://bishop.house.gov. ###
04.09.2010	Columbus, GA – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) today presented a check for $25,000 to the House of Mercy. The money presented was raised at February’s annual Black History Breakfast, hosted by Congressman Bishop. Congressman Bishop thanked the Black History Committee, and House of Mercy staff and volunteers for their time, love, patience, and devotion. Mr. Bishop also invoked the memory of House of Mercy founder, Mrs. Ocie Harris, who provided a Christian atmosphere to all in need. Mr. Bishop said Ms. Harris exemplified the words of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., who said, “Everybody can be great because anybody can serve. . . You only need a heart full of grace. A soul generated by love.” House of Mercy was founded in 1976 by Ocie Harris and provides food, shelter, clothing, medical care, and other outreach to the homeless of South Georgia. In addition to offering educational services and Christmas presents to children, House of Mercy has served well over one million meals. Receiving no local, state, or federal funding, House of Mercy relies on private and voluntary contributions. For more information on this organization, please visit www.houseofmercycolumbus.org. ###
04.09.2010	Reynolds, GA – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) today presented a check to Flint Cable, celebrating a Federal broadband investment totaling $8,191,826. Funding for Flint Cable, and other broadband projects around the country, was provided through the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, commonly called, “The Stimulus bill,” which was signed into law in February of 2009. Mr. Bishop said, “Broadband will help rural communities like Reynolds to more fully participate in our recovering economy, while we continue to modernize rural education and health care. It will create economic opportunities for rural businesses throughout Georgia, allowing them to take advantage of technology to help them remain profitable and competitive.” The Stimulus bill provided a total of $7 billion through the Departments of Commerce (Broadband Technology Opportunities Program) and Agriculture (Broadband Initiatives Program) to bring broadband to communities where there is little or no access. Round two of stimulus broadband funding, which will provide a total of $4.8 billion nationwide, is currently underway. Presently, there are applications pending for Southwest Georgia companies. The investment in Flint Cable is only the second Broadband project approved by the Federal Government in the entire State of Georgia, to date. ###
04.08.2010	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) yesterday responded to a request from the Mayor’s Office to appeal to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) for a 60-day deferment for the city to repay more than $374,000 to HUD due April 9, 2010. These funds were originally allocated for the Cutliff Grove Family Resource Center, Inc. Grove Town Project for 25 multi-family homes. “I am hopeful that HUD will grant the 60-day extension,” said Bishop. “This extension would allow the City of Albany, the Cutliff Grove Family Resource Center, Inc. and HUD an opportunity to resolve any outstanding issues to insure the project's successful completion for the citizens of Albany, Georgia.” The complete text of the letter follows. April 7, 2010 Mrs. Karen Jackson-Sims, Acting Regional Director U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development 40 Marietta Street, 16th Floor Atlanta, GA 30303 Dear Mrs. Jackson-Sims: This letter is written to you because of enclosed correspondence dated April 6, 2010, that I received from the City of Albany relative to the Grovetown Housing Development Project. This project had been slated for completion by the Cutliff Grove Family Resource Center, Inc. as a Community Housing Development Organization (CHDO) in Albany, Georgia. It is my understanding that pursuant to a HUD Compliance Monitoring Review, Cutliff Grove was declared by HUD to be ineligible as a Community Housing Development Organization. As a result, the City of Albany, Georgia decertified Cutliff Grove as an authorized CHDO without first giving the organization the opportunity to correct the deficiencies causing the findings of ineligibility by HUD and the resulting decertification by the City of Albany of Cutliff Grove as an authorized CHDO. Consequently, HUD requested the City to repay $374,415 that had been expended on the Cutliff Grove project. After review of the matter by City officials and meetings with Cutliff Grove and appropriate City staff, the City appears willing to allow Cutliff Grove 60 days to demonstrate the capacity to complete the project in full compliance with all HUD regulations and make all necessary corrections cited in the HUD Compliance Monitoring Review. With that in mind, both Cutliff Grove and the City of Albany have asked me to contact you to request that the City be given a 60-day deferment from April 9th to repay the $374,415.00 to allow Cutliff Grove time to accomplish the tasks necessary to meet HUD eligibility actions. Furthermore, if Cutliff Grove is successful, the City would consider re-certification as a CHDO. As you know, I represent one of the poorest congressional districts in the nation. Housing, as a result of the economic downturn, has been an even more difficult challenge for my constituents. This project was designed to provide 25 safe, decent and sound multi-family units. This project would serve to improve the quality of life for my constituents. The City of Albany has made affordable housing a cornerstone of its strategic plan to revitalize the City. If this request is granted, the City will work in conjunction with Cutliff Grove and an approved project manager to design a comprehensive time-line that will facilitate the completion of this project. The comprehensive plan will be submitted to HUD for its approval. Also, it is my hope that the department will provide technical assistance to the City of Albany and Cutliff Grove to ensure that the project will be completed under the rules and regulations of the department. It is my hope that you will respond to this request in a timely manner and give full and fair consideration to this request under the applicable rules and regulations of the department. Please keep me abreast of any actions that you take relative to this project. With warmest personal regards, I remain Sincerely yours, Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. Member of Congress Enclosures ###
04.06.2010	Albany, Ga. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) today announced that Sara Barge of Deerfield Windsor in Albany, GA is the winner of the 2010 Congressional Art Competition. Barge’s colored pencil work, “untitled,” will be displayed for one year in the U.S. Capitol, along with the winning entries from other Congressional districts across the country. “The goal of the Congressional Art Competition is to encourage young artists, promote art education and give recognition to the outstanding work that our schools are doing to enable young people to realize their potential,” Bishop said at today’s award ceremony. “Miss Barge’s work is a worthy representation of the artistic talent in Southwest Georgia. She should be proud of this accomplishment.” In addition to the winning entry, the following runners-up were selected: Second runner up: Elizabeth Pollack, of Peach County High, Fort Valley, GA, for her pencil drawing, entitled “Faerie;” Third runner up: Kelly Canady, of Thomas County Central High School, Thomasville, GA, for her marker, water-color pencil, and magazine collage, entitled “Girl;” and Honorable Mention: Anna Germany, of Deerfield Windsor, Albany, GA, for her colored pencil drawing, “untitled.” Judges for this year’s Second District contest were Mr. Al Smith, of A.K. Smith & Associates, Ms. Vicky Stephens, of Westmoreland & Patterson, and Mr. Chauncey Grant, of Paragon, Inc. Initiated by Members of Congress in 1982, the Congressional Art Competition is an annual art competition that allows high school students from all fifty states, the District of Columbia, and the U.S. Territories to showcase their artistic ability. The winning works from each Congressional District are displayed in a year-long exhibit in the Cannon tunnel that leads to the U.S. Capitol building. ###
03.23.2010	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) today praised the immediate benefits of health care reform following the bill’s White House signing ceremony. Bishop attended this morning’s ceremony. “There are misconceptions that the benefits of the legislation do not go into effect until 2014, leaving taxpayers to foot the bill for the next four years,” Bishop said. “That claim is simply false. With the legislation’s enactment today, Georgians of all ages, incomes, and backgrounds will benefit immediately.” Key provisions of the health care reform bill that take effect immediately are as follows:1. SMALL BUSINESS TAX CREDITS – Offers tax credits to small businesses to make employee coverage more affordable. Tax credits of up to 35% of premiums will be immediately available to firms that choose to offer coverage. Effective beginning for calendar year 2010. (Beginning in 2014, the small business tax credits will cover 50 percent of premiums.)2. BEGINS TO CLOSE THE MEDICARE PART D “DONUT HOLE” – Provides a $250 rebate to Medicare beneficiaries who hit the "donut hole" coverage gap in 2010. Effective for calendar year 2010. (Beginning in 2011, institutes a 50% discount on brand‐name drugs in the "donut hole;" also completely closes the "donut hole" by 2020.)3. FREE PREVENTIVE CARE UNDER MEDICARE – Eliminates co-payments for preventive services and exempts preventive services from deductibles under the Medicare program. Effective beginning January 1, 2011.4. HELP FOR EARLY RETIREES – Creates a temporary re-insurance program (until the Exchanges are available) to help offset the costs of expensive health claims for employers that provide health benefits for retirees age 55 - 64. Effective 90 days after enactment.5. ENDS RESCISSIONS – Bans insurance companies from dropping people from coverage when they get sick. Effective six months after enactment.6. NO DISCRIMINATON AGAINST CHILDREN WITH PRE-EXISTING CONDITIONS – Prohibits health insurers from denying coverage to children with pre-existing conditions. Effective six months after enactment. (Beginning in 2014, this prohibition would apply to all persons.)7. BANS LIFETIME LIMITS ON COVERAGE – Prohibits health insurance companies from placing lifetime caps on coverage. Effective six months after enactment.8. BANS RESTRICTIVE ANNUAL LIMITS ON COVERAGE – Tightly restricts new plan’s use of annual limits to ensure access to needed care. These tight restrictions will be defined by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). Effective six months after enactment. (Beginning in 2014, the use of any annual limits would be prohibited for all plans.)9. FREE PREVENTIVE CARE UNDER NEW PRIVATE PLANS – Requires new private plans to cover preventive services with no co-payments and with preventive services being exempt from deductibles. Effective six months after enactment. (Beginning in 2018, this requirement applies to all plans.)10. NEW, INDEPENDENT APPEALS PROCESS – Ensures consumers in new plans have access to an effective internal and external appeals process to appeal decisions by their health insurance plan. Effective six months after enactment.11. ENSURING VALUE FOR PREMIUM PAYMENTS – Requires plans in the individual and small group market to spend 80% of premium dollars on medical services, and plans in the large group market to spend 85%. Insurers that do not meet these thresholds must provide rebates to policyholders. Effective on January 1, 2011.12. IMMEDIATE HELP FOR THE UNINSURED UNTIL EXCHANGE IS AVAILABLE (INTERIM HIGH-RISK POOL) – Provides immediate access to insurance for Americans who are uninsured because of a pre-existing condition through a temporary high-risk pool. Effective 90 days after enactment.13. EXTENDS COVERAGE FOR YOUNG PEOPLE UP TO 26th BIRTHDAY THROUGH PARENTS’ INSURANCE – Requires health plans to allow young people up to their 26th birthday to remain on their parents’ insurance policy, at the parents’ choice. Effective six months after enactment.14. COMMUNITY HEALTH CENTERS – Increases funding for Community Health Centers to allow for nearly a doubling of the number of patients seen by the centers over the next 5 years. Effective beginning in fiscal year 2010.15. INCREASING NUMBER OF PRIMARY CARE DOCTORS – Provides new investment in training programs to increase the number of primary care doctors, nurses, and public health professionals. Effective beginning in Fiscal Year 2010.16. PROHIBITING DISCRIMINATION BASED ON SALARY – Prohibits new group health plans from establishing any eligibility rules for health care coverage that have the effect of discriminating in favor of higher wage employees. Effective six months after enactment.17. HEALTH INSURANCE CONSUMER INFORMATION – Provides aid to states in establishing offices of health insurance consumer assistance in order to help individuals with the filing of complaints and appeals. Effective beginning in Fiscal Year 2010.18. CREATES NEW, VOLUNTARY, PUBLIC LONGTERM CARE INSURANCE PROGRAM – Creates a long-term care insurance program to be financed by voluntary payroll deductions to provide benefits to adults who become functionally disabled. Effective on January 1, 2011. ###
03.22.2010	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) today sent a response to Georgia Governor Sonny Perdue following the Governor’s March 18, 2010, letter expressing his concern about the health care reform legislation. To see Congressman Bishop’s letter, please click here. ###
03.21.2010	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) issued the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives voted to pass the health care reform legislation: “Today is an historic day in the history of our country. This evening I cast a vote that I believe will have a significant impact on improving the lives of Southwest Georgians now and into the future. I believe that when the dust of this vigorous debate settles, and people actually see and learn what is in this bill and how it affects their lives, there will be even more widespread support for it.”
03.19.2010	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) today announced his support for the final health care reform legislation that will come before the House for a vote on Sunday, March 21. “I have decided to support the health reform legislation because it represents an historic opportunity to make health care more accessible and affordable now and into the future,” Bishop said. “I base this decision not on what is popular, but on what I believe is in the best interest for Georgia’s Second Congressional District both in the short and long-term. “Throughout this process, I have solicited the views of people both supporting and opposing health care reform. I have heard from doctors and patients, small business owners and the CEOs of large corporations, as well as residents of rural and urban areas. I also have heard from the healthy and the sick, the young and the old, and the rich and the poor. I thank each of you who shared your views with me, and I have listened to your opinions. “In my district there are more than 83,000 uninsured residents who will receive health insurance coverage under this bill. There are 14,500 uninsured individuals who have a pre-existing medical condition such as cancer, heart disease, and diabetes and who will now no longer be denied affordable health insurance coverage. In addition, there are 12,100 small business owners in my district who will qualify for tax credits to help employees afford health care. “My district is also home to 96,000 senior citizens who will benefit from a stronger Medicare program whose solvency is extended to 2026. There are 6,600 Medicare beneficiaries who will now be able to afford their prescription drugs with the closure of the Part D ‘donut hole.’ And, through the health care reform bill, 181,000 households in Southwest Georgia could qualify for tax credits to purchase health insurance through Medicaid, employer sponsored insurance, or other acceptable coverage. For these people and for millions of Americans like them, I have decided to support the health care reform bill. “Some people have asked how I could be a fiscally conservative Blue Dog Democrat and still support the health reform bill. I do not know how I could be a Blue Dog Democrat and not support this bill. According to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office, the bill will reduce the deficit by $138 billion over the next 10 years and $1.2 trillion in the decade after that. It includes tough provisions attacking waste and fraud in the Medicare and Medicaid programs, including some proposed by Republicans. It will slow the growth in health care costs that are becoming an increasing burden on families, businesses, and governments. And the legislation will benefit rural America by boosting mandatory funding for community health centers by $11 billion over five years and making significant investments in the training of primary care doctors. “This bill is not perfect. We cannot, however, let the perfect be the enemy of the good. Nor can we allow fear, misinformation, political motivation and partisanship to prevent us from taking the necessary steps to improve our health care system. I believe that we have a moral obligation to ensure that all Americans, regardless of race, ethnicity, geography, or income, receive the health care they need to lead healthy and productive lives. “As a man of faith, I know that Jesus taught us to provide and care for others, especially the ‘least of these’ who often have few advocates. In addition, when I ask myself, ‘What would Jesus do if he represented the Second Congressional district, and had the opportunity to vote to enable more than 32 million uninsured Americans to receive health insurance?’ I believe He would take care of this immediate need of the people – not let them fend for themselves while we start over or do nothing. This legislation goes a long way toward living up to this moral principle, and I am proud to support it.” ###
03.08.2010	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) today unveiled his redesigned Congressional Web site. The new site, which boasts a user-friendly layout and interactive new features, can be accessed at the same URL: https://bishop.house.gov. “One of my top priorities is to make sure you are informed about the current issues and legislation that I am working on in Congress,” Bishop said. “Therefore, I am pleased to debut this new Web site that will serve as an easy-to-navigate ‘virtual office’ where I can provide you with the latest information concerning my legislative activities, constituent services, and district events. With the ever-expanding role of the Internet in our lives, it is my hope that this new Web site will be a useful resource for residents of Georgia’s Second Congressional district.” The redesigned site offers several new features including interactive maps and calendars, YouTube video, expanded content sections, and more. Additional features will be added in the coming weeks. ###
03.05.2010	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) today announced that Flint Cable TV of Reynolds, Ga., was awarded a $4,095,913 loan and $4,095,913 grant by the Department of Agriculture for a broadband infrastructure project to improve economic and educational opportunities to rural Southwest Georgia communities. Funding for the projects is being provided through the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, or Stimulus bill, which was signed into law in February of 2009. “I am pleased that the Department of Agriculture has awarded this funding to Flint Cable TV, the first Southwest Georgia company to receive Stimulus funding for a rural broadband project,” Bishop said. “Broadband will help rural communities participate in our recovering economy, while modernizing rural education and health care. It will create economic opportunities for rural Georgia businesses to take advantage of technology to help them remain profitable and competitive.” The broadband funding awarded to Flint Cable TV will provide a Hybrid Fiber Coaxial (HFC) network to homes in underserved areas of rural central Georgia. This HFC network will use the latest DOCSIS 3.0 cable standard, enabling channel bonding and speeds up to 100Mbps. Flint Cable TV is the second Georgia company, and first company in Southwest Georgia, to receive Stimulus funding for rural broadband. ###
03.04.2010	Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. released the following statement regarding the status of health care reform: “I remain hopeful that Congress can put partisanship aside and approve fiscally-responsible legislation that will lower health insurance premiums, prevent dropped coverage and denial of coverage for pre-existing conditions, and make health care more accessible and affordable to all Americans. I hope that we can move forward on those items on which there is agreement, and continue working in the long term on items where we disagree.” ###
02.26.2010	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) today congratulated Early County 2055, located in Blakely, Ga., for coordinating efforts to donate a large shipment of peanut butter and other peanut products to the people of Haiti. “I offer my congratulations to the Early County 2055 coordinators on your extraordinary work to organize the shipments of peanuts and peanut butter to Haiti,” Bishop said in a letter to the organization. “I commend your generosity and the sense of service and compassion that you have shown to the people of Haiti who need our help now more than ever. It is truly inspiring that Southwest Georgia businesses are dedicating their time and resources to help alleviate hunger in an area so affected by devastation.” Through the group’s efforts, seven truckloads, or roughly 3.5 million servings of peanuts and peanut butter, have been shipped to the crisis area. ###
02.26.2010	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) was named one of the most centrist members of Congress by a report released today by National Journal Magazine. The report emphasizes Bishop’s independent and balanced approach to legislating. “At a time when partisan politics are common-place in Washington, I am committed to putting the needs and concerns of my district first, even if it means reaching across the aisle to do so,” Bishop said. “I made a promise to represent the principles of my constituents and district, and I take that promise very seriously and work every day to keep it.” In the report, which assigns Members separate scores for their 2009 roll-call votes on key economic, social, and foreign-policy issues, Bishop received a 60.7% liberal composite score and a 39.3% conservative composite score, placing him among the most centrist members of Congress as well as the Georgia Congressional Delegation.See the complete House ratings from the article by National Journal Magazine. ###
02.18.2010	Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. released the following statement upon the Justice Department’s announcement of a settlement in the Pigford case: “Today is an historic day for African American farmers who once found themselves victims of an unjust system. While the Administration and Congress are moving forward to bring a brighter future to people in rural America, we must also do everything possible to correct past injustices. Today’s decision by the Justice Department and the White House to award an additional $1.25 billion to settle all claims stemming from the original Pigford litigation is a significant milestone. “In Georgia, farming is a proud tradition and I am honored to represent farmers of every color and background. Therefore, I look forward to working with my colleagues on the House Appropriations Committee to expedite the funds for this settlement and to bring closure to those who suffered from the USDA’s discriminatory practices.” For more information on today's Pigford settlement, please see the Settlement Fact Sheet. ###
02.09.2010	Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. released the following statement upon the death of Congressman John P. Murtha: "I was saddened to hear of the death of my colleague, mentor, and friend Congressman John P. Murtha of Pennsylvania. For 36 years, Congressman Murtha served as an example to his House colleagues through his steadfast commitment to his constituents. As chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense, he was an outstanding leader who served our defense communities and who was dedicated to the important work of our subcommittee. I extend my deepest sympathies to his family and loved ones who mourn his loss." ###
02.04.2010	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) today co-chaired a Congressional Military Family Caucus briefing to discuss the growing epidemic of mental health issues among U.S. military spouses and children. Bishop, whose district includes Fort Benning and the Marine Corps Logistic Base – Albany, serves as co-Chair of the bipartisan Caucus along with Rep. Cathy McMorris-Rodgers, a Republican from the state of Washington. “Often we recognize the sacrifices that members of our military make without being fully aware of the tremendous hardship that their families must endure,” Bishop said at today’s hearing. “The stress and anxiety caused by long absences, back-to-back deployments, and frequent transfers can unfortunately result in high rates of mental health illness among our military families.” Since 9/11, studies have found that the psychological toll on service and family members has risen significantly. Last month, the New England Journal of Medicine published a report stating that wives of soldiers deployed to Iraq or Afghanistan between one and 11 months had an 18% higher rate of suffering from depression than those whose husbands did not go to war. When soldiers were deployed 11 months or longer, their wives had a 24% higher rate of suffering from depression. Additionally, children of deployed parents suffer more emotional issues, particularly if separations are long or if the parent at home is troubled. Panelists at today’s hearing included Mrs. Kristi Kaufmann, an Army spouse who has seen firsthand the effects on families while serving as the battalion family readiness group leader for more than 600 family members; U.S. Army Brigadier General Loree Sutton, Director of the Center for Excellence for Psychological Health and Traumatic Brain Injury; Mr. David McIntyre, President and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of TriWest Healthcare Alliance, which provides service and family members the online resources to access medical professionals; and Ms. Sherri Brown, Senior Vice President for service to the Armed Forces for the American Red Cross. The Military Family Caucus was formed in 2009 to serve the interests of family members of the uniformed services by educating Members of Congress and their staff on the challenges that military families face on a daily basis. ###
02.04.2010	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) voted today with fellow Members of the fiscally conservative Democratic Blue Dog Coalition to send statutory “pay-as-you-go” (PAYGO) legislation to the president’s desk, a major step in the Blue Dog’s efforts to strengthen fiscal responsibility and bring the federal budget under control. “With the Blue Dogs leading the way, the Congress is committed to addressing the country’s long-term fiscal challenges,” Bishop said. “The Blue Dogs have worked tirelessly over the years to require the federal government to spend within its means. Today our goal is nearly a reality. With the president’s signature, we will put an end to the out-of-control deficit spending that has led our country down such a fiscally disastrous path.” The bill requires Congress to offset all new policies that reduce revenues or expand spending. If the net effect of all new tax and spending legislation enacted during a session of Congress increased the deficit, there would be an across-the-board spending cut to bring the budget back into balance. In the 1990s, PAYGO laws turned deficits into record surpluses and created an economic boom. However, in 2002, PAYGO was waived and allowed to expire, clearing the way for policies that wiped out those surpluses. ###
02.02.2010	Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr.’s issued the following statement on the FY2011 Agriculture Budget: “I am highly disappointed in the president’s budget proposals to further reduce support for America’s peanut farmers. During the past several years, the peanut industry as a whole has made major concessions. In the 2008 Farm Bill, producers saw a price support system of 610.00 lower to 355.00 per ton. The agricultural budget proposals released yesterday will further erode our farmers’ safety net and that is unacceptable. “The industry cannot continue to sustain these blows and compete on a global market. While I support the efforts of the president to restore fiscal responsibility, I cannot support these reductions in the storage and handling of our peanuts, or any other measure that would put a burden on our production agriculture.” ###
01.21.2010	Albany, Ga. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) on Thursday accepted the Georgia Peanut Commission’s “Work Horse” Award during the annual Georgia Peanut Farm Show at the Albany Civic Center. “It is a tremendous honor to accept this award from the Georgia Peanut Commission,” Bishop said. “I have had the distinct honor of being known as the ‘Peanut Congressman,’ a title I wear with great pride and take very seriously. The peanut industry is crucial to the health and well-being of the economy of the rural South and I am committed to looking out for the industry’s interests in Washington.” Georgia’s Second Congressional District grows more peanuts than any other Congressional district in the United States, approximately 23 percent of the nation’s total peanut production. As a Member of Congress, Bishop has been a stalwart supporter of the Georgia peanut community, promoting the domestic farm industry and helping shape federal policies that give the competitive agricultural system a fair chance to survive and prosper. ###
01.14.2010	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. released the following statement in response to the recent earthquake in Haiti: “On behalf of the Second Congressional District of Georgia, my thoughts and prayers are with the people of Haiti who are suffering from an unspeakable tragedy in the wake of Tuesday’s earthquake. The total scale of the devastation and loss of life is at this time immeasurable, but the outpouring of support from our country and from countries around the world has been remarkable. We must continue to come together as a world community to aid the people of Haiti who have lost so much.” Americans seeking information about relatives in Haiti should contact the State Department Operations Center at 1-888-407-4747.. ###
12.16.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) voted today in favor of H.R. 2847, the Jobs for Main Street Act, which will create or save jobs in Georgia’s Second Congressional District and across the country with targeted investments for highways and transit, school renovation, hiring teachers, police, and firefighters, small business, job training and affordable housing. “Since the Stimulus bill in February, we’ve gone from losing 750,000 jobs a month to about 11,000 jobs a month,” Bishop said. “That is significant progress and today’s bill builds on that success by preserving the jobs of hardworking Americans and providing another boost to infrastructure projects around the country. The bill also extends unemployment insurance for those who have lost their jobs.” The bill funds $75 billion in targeted investments and is fully paid for by redirecting TARP funds from Wall Street to hardworking Americans. This $75 billion is broken down as follows: $48 billion for highways, transit and other infrastructure to put people back to work rebuilding our crumbling roads and bridges, modernizing public buildings, and cleaning our air and water; $27 billion for the hiring of teachers, police, firefighters and job training. Additional funds will extend several Recovery Act initiatives to help America’s small businesses create jobs, including eliminating fees on Small Business Administration (SBA) loans to make them more affordable for small businesses, and encouraging banks to lend to small businesses by raising to 90 percent (from 85 percent) the portion of a loan that the Small Business Administration will guarantee. ###
12.16.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) announced today that the House of Representatives approved H.R. 3326, the Fiscal Year 2010 Defense Appropriations bill, which completes the Appropriations Acts for Fiscal Year 2010 (FY2010). The bill includes more than $29.6 million in funding for Georgia’s Second Congressional District and the state of Georgia. “Southwest Georgia has a strong military presence through our Army base at Fort Benning and the Marine Corps Logistics Base in Albany,” Bishop said. “The funding approved by the House today will invest in necessary equipment, training, cutting-edge weaponry and research for our men and women in uniform. With this bill, we are protecting them as they go into battle in defense of our nation.” The following Second District and Georgia projects were included in the Fiscal Year 2010 Defense Appropriations bill approved today by the House of Representatives: $4,000,000 – Soldier Center at Patriot Park, Fort Benning; $800,000 – Global Supply Chain Management, Albany State University; $1,600,000 – Cognitive Based Modeling and Simulation for Tactical Decision Support, Columbus State University; $800,000 – Advanced Carbon Hybrid Battery for Hybrid Electric Vehicles, Columbus; $1,600,000 –Customized Nursing Programs, Darton College (Albany, Ga.); $1,200,000 – High Energy Li-Ion Technology for Aviation Batteries, Valdosta; $1,600,000 – Advanced Lithium Battery Scale-up and Manufacturing, Atlanta; $800,000 – Demonstration and Validation of Renewable Energy Technology, Albany State University; $2,400,000 – Dr. John H. Hopps Defense Research Scholars Program, Morehouse College; $1,600,000 – Cooperative Developmental Energy Program, Fort Valley State University; $1,520,000 – Nanophotonic Biosensors, University of Georgia; $4,000,000 – Fort Benning National Incident Management System/Operations Center; $1,600,000 – Wire Integrity Technology, Warner Robins AFB; $2,500,000 – Advanced Bio-Engineering for Enhancement of Soldier Survivability, Georgia Tech University; $4,000,000 – Advanced Sam Hardware Simulator Development, Georgia Tech University. For a complete summary of the Fiscal Year 2010 Defense Appropriations Act, please visit the House Appropriations Committee web site at https://appropriations.house.gov. Once the conference report is approved by the Senate, it will go to the President’s desk for his signature. ###
12.11.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) on Thursday was joined by his Georgia House and Senate colleagues to express concern with the Department of Labor’s recently proposed changes to the H-2A Visa program, which allows foreign nationals entry into the United State for temporary or seasonal agricultural work. Bishop initiated the letter of concern to Labor Secretary Hilda Solis, which was also signed by Georgia Congressional delegation members Senator Saxby Chambliss (R-GA), Senator Johnny Isakson (R-GA), Congressman Lynn Westmoreland (GA-03), Congressman Nathan Deal (GA-09), Congressman Jack Kingston (GA-01), Congressman David Scott (GA-13), Congressman Hank Johnson (GA-04) and Congressman John Barrow (GA-12). “The H-2A program is an important tool that enables the farm families we represent to grow their high quality products,” Bishop stated in the letter. “The program is designed to balance the legitimate needs of U.S. workers, seasonal immigrant H-2A farm workers, and employers. Unfortunately, the most recent proposed rule appears to be crafted in a manner that does not truly reflect the needs of both the employee and the producer.” The H-2A program is a critical labor resource that a large number of Georgia farmers depend on when they are unable to secure enough U.S. workers to fill their seasonal job openings. Currently, more than 60 Georgia farmers employ about 6,000 H-2A workers who help produce every fruit and vegetable grown in the region, as well as pine seedlings, trees and vegetable plant sets. If implemented, the proposed changes could potentially increase the costs and burdens of farmers and growers who participate in the H-2A program. “We sincerely appreciate Congressman Sanford Bishop and other key members of the Georgia delegation supporting our efforts to have an effective H-2A program for produce growers,” Robert Dickey, a Crawford County farmer and past President of the Georgia Peach Council, said. “Fruits and vegetables are the largest combined plant crop segment in the state of Georgia, generating a farm gate value of $1.1 billion. Having a reliable, seasonal labor supply is critical to an industry dependent on fresh market sales.” View the Georgia delegation's Letter to Labor Secretary Hilda Solis.
12.10.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) announced today that the House of Representatives approved H.R. 3288, the Fiscal Year 2010 Consolidated Appropriations Act, which completes the Transportation/Housing and Urban Development (HUD), Labor and Health and Human Services (HHS), Military Construction, Commerce, Science and Justice, and Financial Services Appropriations Acts for Fiscal Year 2010 (FY2010). The bill includes more than $343.8 million in funding for Georgia’s Second Congressional District. “The bill passed by the House today will steer much-needed funds to Southwest Georgia for programs and projects that will create a healthier environment for our citizens, provide a higher quality of life, and plan for future growth in our area,” Bishop said. “The funds will have an immediate impact in terms of improving health care technology and access, increasing opportunities for at-risk youth, and keeping our transportation systems safe and strong. In addition, the funding provided to both Ft. Benning in Columbus and the Marine Corps Logistics Base in Albany will support our ever-growing military bases.” The following Second District projects were included in the Fiscal Year 2010 Consolidated Appropriations Act approved today by the House of Representatives:Transportation/HUD Appropriations: $100,000 – City of Unadilla, Ga. for streetscaping and sidewalk improvements; $150,000 – City of Richland, Ga. for streetscaping and sidewalk improvements; $500,000 – Albany, Ga. for heavy-duty buses; $1,500,000 – Albany Transit Multimodal Transportation Center; $450,000 – Albany Industrial Park; $300,000 – Crisp County, Ga. Airport for various improvements. Labor, HHS Appropriations: $100,000 – Ft. Valley State University in Ft. Valley, Ga. for food and nutrition programs; $100,000 – Easter Seals for Southern GA in Albany, Ga. for children’s respite services; $150,000 – Columbus State University in Columbus, Ga. for Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) programs; $150,000 – Albany State University in Albany, Ga. to recruit/retain under-represented students; $100,000 – Enrichment Services Program, Inc. of Columbus, Ga., an after-school GED training program for at-risk youth; $100,000 – Phoebe Putney Health System in Albany, Ga. for healthcare programs for students. Military Construction Appropriations: $4.87 million – Marine Corps Logistics Base (MCLB) in Albany, Ga. for construction of a Weapons Maintenance Hardstand Facility; $333.4 million – Ft. Benning for BRAC and other related construction projects, including: o Battle Lab ($30 million); o Combined Collective Training Facility ($10.8 million); o Dining Facility ($15 million); o Fire and Movement range ($2.8 million); o Trainee barracks Complex, Ph 1 ($74 million); o Training Area Tank Trails ($9.7 million); o Training Battalion Complex ($38 million); o Training Battalion Complex, Ph 1 ($62 million); o Warrior in Transition Complex ($53 million); o Readiness Center ($15.5 million); o Blood Donor Clinic Replacement ($12.313 million); o Dental Clinic ($4.887 million); o SOF Expand Battalion Headquarters ($3.046 million); o Wilson ES Construct Gymnasium ($2.33 million). Commerce, Science and Justice Appropriations: $200,000 – The Family Center of Columbus, Ga.; $250,000 – State of Georgia Meth Project, Atlanta, Ga.; $75,000 – SWGA Humanitarian Rural Outreach in Bainbridge, Ga.; $145,000 – Taylor County Family Matters in Butler, Ga.; $250,000 – Project Rebound in Columbus, Ga.; $80,000 – Miller County New Vision Coalition in Colquitt, Ga.; $50,000 – Crawford Community Learning Center in Roberta, Ga.; $75,000 – Dooly County Family Connection in Vienna, Ga.; $75,000 – City of Cairo’s Holder Park Youth Center; $75,000 – Calhoun County Family Connection in Edison, Ga.; $75,000 – Building Toward Wellness in Columbus, Ga.; $75,000 – SW Judicial Circuit Family Violence Council in Americus, Ga.; $150,000 – Thomas County E-911 in Thomasville, Ga.; $100,000 – Arlington, Ga. Wireless IP Technology System; $75,000 – Butler Police Department (Butler, Ga.) for law enforcement equipment. Financial Services Appropriations: $100,000 – University of Georgia for a demonstration project on workforce expansion, development and poverty in SW Georgia; $100,000 – Southwest Georgia United Empowerment Zone (Vienna, Ga.) for rural economic development. For a complete summary of the Fiscal Year 2010 Consolidated Appropriations Act, please visit the House Appropriations Committee web site at https://appropriations.house.gov. Once the conference report is approved by the Senate, it will go to the President’s desk for his signature. ###
12.09.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) announced today that the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) has awarded $1,208,700 in grant funding for Southwest Georgia Health Care, Inc. (Richland, Ga.) to support construction and renovation projects, create new job opportunities in construction and health care and provide care for additional patients in an underserved rural community of Southwest Georgia. The grant is provided through the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (“Stimulus bill”). “This funding will provide much-needed support to an underfunded community health center in a rural area of Southwest Georgia,” Bishop said following a bipartisan grant announcement ceremony at the White House. “Many citizens in this area do not receive adequate preventative and primary care services. This grant will allow Southwest Georgia Health Care, Inc. to improve and expand access to health care services. In addition, the multiplier effect that these funds will create in terms of job creation and economic growth will have an immediate impact on this area.” Through Stimulus funding for this project in Richland, Ga., jobs will be created for contractors, construction workers, manufacturers of building supplies, health care workers, as well as at small and medium sized businesses where these workers and their families will spend their pay. The grant will be awarded through HHS’s Facility Investment Program (FIP), which addresses pressing health center facility needs. The funds are the latest in a series of grants awarded to community health centers, which deliver preventive and primary care services to more than 17 million patients nationwide, regardless of their ability to pay. Today’s $508.5 million awarded in Facility Investment Program grants to community health centers nationwide will address the pressing needs of health center facilities and expand their capacities to serve an additional 500,000 patients. These funds will also help health centers build new facilities, modernize current sites and create employment opportunities in underserved communities. Recipients of FIP funds are expected to commit grant funds and complete the proposed projects within two years. The grants will cover two types of projects: 1. Alteration/renovation: This project type includes work required to modernize, improve or change the interior arrangements or other physical characteristics of an existing facility, and purchase/install equipment. Alterations and renovations make existing space usable for another purpose. This type of project does not increase square footage. 2. Construction (new site or expansion of existing site): This project type includes—(i) adding a new structure to an existing site that increases the total square footage of the facility; and (ii) permanently affixing structure (e.g., modular units, prefabricated buildings) to real property (i.e., land). FIP grants, along with the entire health center program, are administered by the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA), a component of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. Of the 85 FIP grants announced by the White House today, the grant to Southwest Georgia Health Care, Inc. is one of only two grants awarded in the state of Georgia. The other went to Palmetto Health Council, Inc. in Palmetto. For more information about Facility Investment Program grants, visit https://bphc.hrsa.gov.
12.06.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (D-GA02) announced today that the U.S. House of Representatives approved the Chattahoochee Trace National Heritage Corridor Act. The legislation authorizes the Secretary of the Interior to study the suitability and feasibility of designating as a National Heritage Area eleven Georgia and seven Alabama counties known as the Chattahoochee Trace. Such a designation would make the region eligible to receive funding for publications and marketing for tourism, historic preservation, environmental education, outdoor recreation and small business development. “The Chattahoochee Trace region has been touched by nearly every era in early American history and has served as one of the South’s most important transportation routes, been an engine for commerce, and is a vital natural and recreational resource.” Bishop said. “Through the preservation and study of the area’s historical and recreational resources, it will create an engine for future economic growth.” The measure was included in the Senate amendments to H.R. 146, the Omnibus Public Land Management Act of 2009, which the House passed by a vote of 285 to 140. In the 110th Congress, Congressman Bishop was the lead Democratic co-sponsor of the Chattahoochee Trace National Heritage Corridor Act, along with Representative Jim Marshall (D-GA08), Representative Mike Rogers (R-AL03), and then-Representative Terry Everett (R-AL02). “Once completed, the study will clearly show that the Chattahoochee Trace region meets the National Heritage Area criteria as set forth by the National Park Service,” Doug Purcell, Executive Director of the Historic Chattahoochee Commission, said. “The actual National Heritage Area designation will, over time, be a positive economic force for change in the region and will be a major factor in improving the quality of life for many thousands of people who live along the lower Chattahoochee River in Alabama and Georgia.”
12.04.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) voted yesterday in favor of H.R. 4154, which will spur job creation and enable small businesses, farmers, and American workers in Georgia’s Second Congressional District to keep more of their hard-earned wealth. The legislation will ensure that individual estates worth less than $3.5 million (or 99.8% of estates in the United States) will never pay a penny in estate tax. “I have strongly supported a full repeal of the ‘death tax’ on the grounds that it is politically misguided, morally unjustified and downright un-American,” Bishop said. “The ‘death tax’ undermines the life work and the life savings of farmers and small- and medium-sized businesses in Georgia and across the nation. While I will continue to fight to fully repeal the death tax, I voted in favor of this bill because the alternative would have been far worse – uncertainty in future estate planning as well as a higher rate and a lower exemption amount in 2011.” Without the legislation, the estate tax would be eliminated entirely in 2010. In 2011, however, the maximum estate tax rate would increase to 55% and would include a much lower exemption amount of $1 million per individual ($2 million per couple). At these levels, Congressman Bishop was concerned that many Georgia farmers would lose their farms that have been passed down from generation to generation or be forced to sell much needed land, buildings or equipment. In addition, he heard from small business owners who feared that the businesses they hope to hand down to their children will be destroyed by the higher estate tax levels. “As the nation struggles to create jobs and emerge from recession, allowing the higher estate tax to go into effect in 2011 would have been irresponsible,” Bishop said. “I have heard from farmers, funeral home owners, newspaper publishers, radio station owners, and garment manufacturers about the need for estate tax relief. Their message has come through loud and clear.” The legislation also included the provisions of H.R. 2920, the “Pay-As-You-Go” (PAYGO) principle, which requires Congress to ensure that new policies that increase spending or reduce revenues do not add to the federal budget deficit. H.R. 4154 passed the House by a vote of 225 to 200. The bill now goes to the Senate for its consideration
12.02.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) submitted the following statement to the Congressional Record in support of H.R. 742, congratulating the Warner Robins Little League softball team from Warner Robins, Georgia, on winning the 2009 Little League Softball World Series. The resolution was agreed to by voice vote in the House of Representatives on Tuesday, December 1, 2009. “Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.742 which congratulates the Warner Robins American Little League Softball Team from Warner Robins, Georgia, on winning the 2009 Softball World Series Championship. “Although Warner Robins is technically no longer a part the 2nd Congressional District of Georgia which I represent, I continue to claim the residents of Warner Robins as my constituents as I have represented them in previous sessions of Congress. “All of us in Southwest Georgia are proud of this accomplishment. I would like to recognize and applaud the commitment to excellence, dedication, and determination shown by the players, parents, coaches, and managers who worked so diligently to accomplish a worthy goal. The City of Warner Robins and the State of Georgia should be commended for the outstanding loyalty and support they displayed for their team throughout the season. “The 2009 Champion Warner Robins Little League Softball Team consists of Carson Carriker, Sierra Stella, Chelsea Whaley, Caitlin Parker, Melissa Cox, Kelly Warner, Sabrina Doucette, Hanna Livingston, Kaylee Albritton, Ashley Killebrew, Avery Lamb and Sydney Barker. They were successfully managed and coached by Emily Whaley and Roger Stella. “As most of my colleagues know, Warner Robins Air Force Base is located in the City of Warner Robins. I have no doubt that members of the Warner Robin Softball team have parents or siblings serving in the military. We salute not only the team, but also their family members serving proudly in the military. “On behalf of my constituents in Georgia’s Second Congressional District, I offer my congratulations on a job well done!”
11.19.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) voted today in favor of H.R. 3961, the Medicare Physician Payment Reform Act, which will repeal a 21 percent fee reduction scheduled for January 2010 and replace it with a stable system to guarantee that Medicare beneficiaries continue to enjoy the same access to care that they have today. “We are fortunate to have dedicated physicians in Southwest Georgia who provide outstanding services for their patients,” Bishop said. “Today’s vote ensures that doctors will be able to continue providing high quality health care services to our seniors and veterans without the threat of ever-larger fee cuts followed by short-term patches.” In addition to replacing the broken Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR) formula – which is used to determine annual Medicare physician fee updates – with fairer growth targets to keep doctors’ pay steady, the bill also promotes primary care by providing an extra growth allowance for primary care services that can keep patients healthier longer. It also encourages integrated care so doctors communicate on a patient’s care. Finally, the bill will have statutory “pay-as-you-go” (PAYGO) legislation attached before it is sent to the Senate, a move that reinforces the 111th Congress’ commitment to put this principle into law and restore fiscal discipline. The PAYGO principle of budget discipline requires Congress to offset all new policies that reduce revenues or expand spending. Congressman Bishop was an original co-sponsor of the PAYGO bill that was approved by the House in July.
11.07.2009	“After months of studying the various proposals, listening to feedback from my constituents on both sides of the issue in town hall meetings, informal discussions, letters, e-mails and faxes, and after prayerful reflection, I concluded that I must support the health care reform legislation,” Bishop said. “I believe it would improve the lives of my constituents by ensuring that they have access to quality, affordable health care. H.R. 3962, while not perfect, makes substantial progress in this regard.” H.R. 3962, when signed into law, will immediately bring about reforms that will benefit the citizens of Georgia’s Second Congressional District and all Americans. The bill will immediately begin to close the donut hole in the Medicare part D prescription drug coverage for seniors. It will outlaw denial of coverage for people with pre-existing conditions, limit premium discrimination based on gender and age, and prevent insurance companies from dropping coverage when people develop serious illnesses and need it the most. In addition, the bill increases funding for community health centers and other primary care providers, doubling the number of patients seen over five years. It will extend coverage for young people to stay on their parents’ insurance plans up to their 27th birthday. It will extend COBRA health insurance coverage for displaced workers. Furthermore, it will hinder price-gouging by requiring that insurance companies disclose rate increases. By 2013, when the mandate for coverage and the Exchange are in place, additional provisions will take effect including no more co-pays for routine checkups and preventive care, yearly caps on individuals’ out-of-pocket expenses and no lifetime caps on what insurance companies will cover. “During my town hall meetings on health insurance reform last August, I said that we have a moral obligation to ensure that all Americans receive the health care they need to live healthy and productive lives,” Bishop said. “I have long been concerned about the poor health indicators among my constituents, and this evening I cast a vote that I believe will have a significant impact on improving the lives of Southwest Georgians now and into the future.” In addition to the benefits for Southwest Georgia, the bill will reduce the federal budget deficit by $104 billion over the next decade. It will allow states to form compacts that will enable consumers to buy policies from insurers across state lines. With regards to small businesses, the health care legislation will provide tax credits to nearly 14,000 small businesses in the Second Congressional District who offer their employees coverage and exempts 86% of small businesses (those with payrolls of less than $500,000) from having to provide coverage, and continues the business deduction for those who do. Finally, the House health care bill prohibits the use of federal funds for abortions. It also requires verification of citizenship or lawful presence for undocumented immigrants to receive coverage. “I look forward to further improvements as the bill is considered by the Senate and the Conference Committee, where differences between the House and Senate bills will be resolved,” Bishop said. “But this evening’s vote is a significant step towards affordable, quality health care for all.”
11.06.2009	Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) and Congresswoman Cathy McMorris-Rodgers (WA-05), Co-Chairs of the Congressional Military Families Caucus, issued the following statement regarding Thursday’s shootings at Fort Hood: “Yesterday was a sad day for all who serve our country. Our thoughts and prayers go out to the soldiers and military families at Fort Hood and around the world. “On behalf of the Congressional Military Families Caucus, we pledge our support in the difficult days ahead. This tragedy serves as a grim reminder of the need for the highest quality of mental health care for our soldiers and their families. We will work to ensure that those affected by this tragedy receive the support they need to begin the healing process.”
11.04.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) today joined with House colleagues to officially launch the newly-formed and bipartisan Congressional Military Family Caucus. Bishop, whose district includes Fort Benning and the Marine Corps Logistic Base – Albany, will serve as co-Chair of the Caucus along with Rep. Cathy McMorris-Rodgers, a Republican from the state of Washington. More than 70 Members of the House of Representatives have signed on to become members of the Caucus, the purpose of which is to foster the interests of family members of the uniformed services by educating Members of Congress and their staff on the challenges that military families face on a daily basis. Among the guests at today’s event was the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Admiral Mike Mullen. “Often we recognize the sacrifices that our members of the military make without being fully aware of the tremendous hardships that their families must endure,” Bishop said. “We formed the Congressional Military Family Caucus to shine a light on the special challenges our military families face and to determine and develop ways to address and resolve key issues that impact military families.” The Congressional Military Family Caucus will meet quarterly to discuss issues such as increasing family support, studying the effects of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), the impact of back-to-back deployments on families, marriages, and mental health, as well as the impact that constant re-stationing has on education, spousal employment, and children’s well-being. “We fully understand that the strength of our military is drawn from the strength of their families and we want to do all we can to protect our warriors and their loved ones,” Bishop said. “It is my sincere hope that the Congressional Military Family Caucus can, in some small way, honor our military families by telling their stories and working together to address their challenges.” The Caucus is tentatively planning to hold its first briefing in December with a panel discussion focused on the military education system. Representatives from the Department of Veterans Affairs and the Department of Defense will be present, as well as outside groups such as the National Military Families Association, Military Families United, and the Military Officers Association of America.
10.29.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) announced today that the House of Representatives voted to approve the Fiscal Year 2010 Interior & Environment Appropriations conference report. The bill includes $6.3 million in funding for projects in Georgia’s Second Congressional District. “The future of our country and our planet depends on the investments we make today,” Bishop said. “This bill makes real progress to clean up our water sources and restore the splendor of our lakes, forests and parks.” The following Second District projects were included in the FY 2010 Interior & Environment Appropriations conference report approved today by the House of Representatives: • $500,000 –Fort Valley Utility Commission’s wastewater reclamation facility • $3,100,000 – Chattahoochee River National Recreation Area • $1,200,000 – Chattahoochee-Oconee National Forest • $500,000 – Georgia Streambank Restoration • $1,000,000 – Consortium for Plant Biotechnology Research (Albany State University) “One of the greatest challenges our rural communities face in southwest Georgia is a declining infrastructure,” Bishop said. “While I am particularly pleased that the House approved $500,000 for Fort Valley – funding that will aid tremendously in renovating and improving the city’s water and sewer systems – I am hopeful that in subsequent years we can steer additional resources to Southwest Georgia to meet the overwhelming demands for funding for drinking and wastewater projects.” Additionally, the conference agreement prohibits funds in the measure from being used to implement any regulation requiring the issuance of permits under the Clean Air Act for carbon dioxide, nitrous oxide, water vapor, or methane emissions resulting from biological processes associated with livestock production. It also prohibits funds from being used to implement any rules that would require mandatory reporting of greenhouse gas emissions from manure management systems. “I have heard from ranchers and farmers both in my district and around the country regarding the Environmental Protection Agency’s rules on livestock emissions,” Bishop said. “As a member of the Appropriations Committee, I worked feverishly to ensure that the EPA’s rules didn’t have a grossly negative impact on our farming communities. These rules could potentially cost our farmers and ranchers a significant amount and, given the state of the economy, they could be a burden on their revenues.” In total, the conference agreement appropriates $32.3 billion, which is $6.5 billion less than the current level. This amount includes $11.2 billion in emergency appropriations and is $87 million less than the administration's request. Once the conference report is approved by the Senate, it will go to the President’s desk for his signature.
10.26.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) announced today that the House of Representatives unanimously passed H.R. 1471, legislation to expand the Jimmy Carter National Historic Site in Plains, Ga. Congressman Bishop introduced the bipartisan legislation earlier this year. “Jimmy Carter possesses a level of commitment to his country and the cause of humanity that has only rarely been matched,” Bishop said. “The Jimmy Carter National Historic Site does a remarkable job of helping people to understand the values that shaped this great Georgian. This bill will ensure that the site will continue to inspire generations of visitors, as well as grow and positively impact the economies of Plains and Sumter County through increased opportunities for tourism.” In summary, the bill will expand the national historic site’s authorized boundaries from 15 acres to 18 acres and will allow the National Park Service to acquire several additional properties for the park, including a house that the Carter family lived in from 1956-1961. Additionally, the legislation will redesignate the park from a national historic site to a national historical park and will direct that that the park service preserves and interprets a southern agricultural-based rural community during the early to middle years of the 20th century. The bill now moves to the Senate for consideration.
10.14.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) today announced that the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) has approved a $100,000 grant for the Golden Triangle Resource Conservation and Development Area to establish lending programs for household water wells in rural Southwest Georgia. The grant will be funded through the USDA’s Household Water Well System Grant Program. “This program provides financial assistance to rural residents who need to drill water wells,” Bishop said. “Because many rural residents do not live in areas where a centralized water system is feasible, this program helps meet a basic human need – access to clean, safe drinking water.” Golden Triangle Resource Conservation and Development Area will use the grant to make loans for 13 - 22 individual households in 12 Southwest Georgia counties: Baker, Calhoun, Clay, Decatur, Dougherty, Early, Grady, Miller, Mitchell, Seminole, Terrell and Randolph. The loans will be used to construct or upgrade a household water well system for an existing home. For more information about USDA’s Rural Development Water and Environmental Programs, please visit https://www.usda.gov/rus/water.
10.07.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) announced today that the House of Representatives voted to approve the Fiscal Year 2010 Agriculture Appropriations conference report. The bill includes more than $5.2 million ($5,223,000) in funding for projects in Georgia’s Second Congressional District. “This bill comprehensively ensures the continued strength of our agricultural sector while addressing the growing need for research and development into alternative fuels, land conservation, and innovative ways to feed our nation’s most vulnerable,” Bishop said. “I am also pleased by the allocation of funds to some critical research and development projects that specifically address the needs of Georgia agriculture.” The following projects, which will impact the Second Congressional district, were included in the FY 2010 Agriculture Appropriations conference report approved today by the House of Representatives: * $346,000 – University of Georgia (UGA) for cotton insect management and fiber quality research * $346,000 – UGA for water use and water quality enhancements * $178,000 – UGA for Phytophthora blight on vegetables research * $209,000 – UGA for blueberry production efficiency research * $267,000 – Oak research and preservation * $1,200,000 – National Peanut Laboratory * $254,000 – Peanut Institute/Baylor Medical study of childhood obesity * $2,423,000 – Georgia Water and Soil Conservation Commission In total, the conference agreement appropriates $121.2 billion, which is $264 million more than the current level. This amount includes substantial funding provided by the economic stimulus law, or $12.8 billion (12 percent) more than regular FY 2009 appropriations. More than 80 percent of the agreement's funding is for mandatory spending for programs such as crop support and food stamps. The bill includes $58.3 billion for food stamps, which, when combined with an additional $6.1 billion in FY 2010 funds provided by the economic stimulus law, will provide 19 percent more for food stamps than what is currently available. The bill also provides $16.9 billion for school lunch and other child nutrition programs, which is 13 percent more than the current amount; $7.3 billion for WIC, which is 6 percent more than the current amount; and $3.3 billion for the FDA, which is 19 percent more than the current amount. Additionally, the agreement includes $910 million for the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, which is $24 million (3 percent) more than the House bill and $28 million (3 percent) more than the current level. The bill also provides $5.3 million for the National Animal Identification System. Other areas of interest include a one-time $350 million in aid to dairy farmers, including $60 million to buy cheese and other products to shore up prices. Finally, the House-passed provision barring poultry imports from China was dropped and the agreement instead includes a Senate provision which allows such imports if the Agriculture Department determines that the poultry meets U.S. safety standards. Once the conference report is approved by the Senate, it will go to the President’s desk for his signature.
10.06.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) today announced that the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) awarded a $100,000 economic development and business promotion grant to Fort Valley State University. The grants were awarded to 15 historically African-American land-grant educational institutions in 14 states. “This federal investment in the future of our area of the state promises to pay for itself many times over in terms of the entrepreneurship training and benefits to our rural youth,” Bishop said. “I commend the USDA for approving this grant to provide a dynamic new economic development resource for the people of our area.” The grants, provided through USDA Rural Development, will help create businesses, promote cooperatives and provide jobs. According to Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack, these funds will allow students to learn to take advantage of existing economic development opportunities in their communities - such as renewable energy resources - as well as the vast business knowledge and connections of their faculty members. The recipients are among the 18 institutions supported under the Second Morrill Act of 1890, a law providing for the establishment of land-grant institutions focusing on agriculture, home economics and the mechanic arts. For more information on Rural Development's programs, visit https://www.rurdev.usda.gov/rbs/oa/1890.htm.
09.30.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) today praised the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers for the recent announcement of a $333 million contract to build a new hospital at Fort Benning. The award, announced Monday by the Savannah District U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, was made to Turner Construction Company, Inc., of Huntsville, Ala., for the design and construction of a 745,000-square-foot hospital, almost twice the size of the current 393,000 square-foot facility. “Monday’s announcement brings us one step closer to seeing the new hospital become a reality,” Bishop said. “The goal is to provide our soldiers, our veterans, and their families with a modern medical facility that will offer the highest quality of patient care and this contract is a milestone in the process of achieving that goal.” Design and construction is likely to begin shortly after the Corps of Engineers issues a notice-to-proceed in October and will span 1,200 calendar days. An estimated completion date is set for summer 2013. For more information about the contract or the hospital, please contact Billy Birdwell, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Public Affairs Officer at (912) 652-5014; or by e-mail at billy.birdwell@us.army.mil. This e-mail address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it.
09.30.2009	Washington, D.C. – The U.S. House of Representative’s Natural Resources Committee today unanimously approved H.R. 1471, legislation to expand the Jimmy Carter National Historic Site in Plains, Ga. Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) introduced the legislation earlier this year. The Committee also approved a Manager’s Amendment to H.R. 1471 that would allow the park to accept land donations in the Plains community. “The Jimmy Carter National Historic Site does a remarkable job of helping people to understand the values that shaped this great Georgian,” Bishop said. “This bill will ensure that the site will continue to inspire generations of visitors, as well as grow and positively impact the economies of Plains and Sumter County through increased opportunities for tourism.” In summary, the bill seeks to expand the national historic site’s authorized boundaries from 15 acres to 18 acres and would allow the National Park Service to acquire several additional properties for the park, including a house that the Carter family lived in from 1956-1961. Additionally, the legislation would redesignate the park from a national historic site to a national historical park and would direct that the park preserve, and interpret, a southern agricultural-based rural community during the early to middle years of the 20th century. The bill now goes before the full House for consideration.
09.22.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) voted today in favor of H.R. 3548, the Unemployment Compensation Extension Act, which will provide up to 13 additional weeks of unemployment benefits to workers who are about to run out of benefits. This extension is targeted to those states with particularly high unemployment rates, where it is more difficult to find new jobs. “This extension will ensure that those who are struggling to find work will be able to continue providing for their families – helping to pay for groceries, filling their cars with gas and making their mortgage payments on time,” Bishop said. “Additionally, extending these benefits is a cost-effective way to stimulate the economy as every $1 spent on unemployment benefits generates $1.63 in new economic demand.” In the state of Georgia, the extension will apply to 13,844 unemployed workers whose benefits would otherwise run out by the end of September and 58,887 unemployed workers who will run out of benefits by the end of December.
09.22.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) announced today that the House of Representatives unanimously passed H. Res. 765, which expressed condolences to the families of the individuals killed during the recent storms and flooding in the state of Georgia, as well as gratitude to all of the emergency personnel who continue to work to meet the needs of Georgia’s residents. Bishop was a co-sponsor of the resolution. “My thoughts and prayers are with the citizens of the areas affected by the flooding, especially those who have lost loved ones and who have suffered damage to their homes and possessions,” Bishop said. “I hope that with the passage of this resolution, the people of Georgia will be assured that the Federal government stands ready to assist with recovery efforts and the process of rebuilding the hardest hit areas of our communities.”
08.07.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) announced today that he will hold a series of town hall meetings to discuss the very important issue of health care reform. “Following the August District Work Period, the House will consider H.R. 3200, America’s Affordable Health Choices Act, which seeks to reform our broken health care system,” Bishop said. “On an issue as important as this, the Members of Congress must be given ample time to review the bill closely and to hear the concerns of their constituents. All of you will play an important role in the future of health care, and I encourage you to attend one of these town hall events and let your voices be heard.” The schedule of town hall meetings is as follows: Wednesday, August 19, 2009: 8:30 a.m. – 10:30 a.m. National Infantry Museum 3800 South Lumpkin Road Columbus, GA 31903 4:00 p.m. – 6:00 p.m. Fort Valley State University, Pettigrew Center Auditorium 1000 University Drive Fort Valley, GA 31030 Thursday, August 20, 2009: 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Bainbridge College, Kirbo Regional Center 2500 East Shotwell Street Bainbridge, GA 39819 4:00 p.m. – 6:00 p.m. Albany State University, ACAD Auditorium 504 College Drive Albany, GA 31705
08.05.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) today departed Iraq following a Congressional Delegation visit and fact-finding mission, taken at the request of the House Appropriations’ Subcommittee on Defense. The trip, which was led by Bishop, allowed Members of Congress to review troop readiness, operations, equipment and logistical support in the Central Command and European Command theaters of operations. Accompanying Bishop on the trip were Congresswoman Carolyn Cheeks Kilpatrick of Michigan, Congressman André Carson of Indiana, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson of Texas, Congressman Devin Nunes of California, and members of the Appropriations Committee’s professional staff. In addition to Iraq, the trip includes stops in Kuwait, United Arab Emirates (UAE), and Germany. “I am honored to have had this opportunity to travel with my fellow Members of Congress and the Defense Appropriations committee to Kuwait, Iraq, UAE, and Germany,” Bishop said. “It is a privilege to meet with our men and women who are overseas, including many from the state of Georgia, and to personally thank them for their service. Additionally, the visit provided the opportunity to make a first-hand assessment of the current situation in Iraq, including insight into the needs and concerns of our military and diplomatic personnel. This knowledge will allow the members of the Defense Subcommittee to ensure that our troops have the resources and tools they need to do their jobs.” The delegation left Washington, D.C. on Monday and traveled first to Camp Arifjan in Kuwait, where they had lunch with troops and received operational overview briefings on classified elements of U.S. policy. On Wednesday, the delegation traveled to Iraq where they received in-depth operational and intelligence briefing on the U.S. military’s area of responsibility and met with top U.S. military and civilian leadership, including U.S. Ambassador to Iraq Christopher Hill, General Ray Odierno, Commanding General of the Multi-National Force - Iraq, and Lieutenant General Charles H. Jacoby, Commander of the Multi-National Corps - Iraq. The delegation also met with top Iraqi leadership and attended a special discussion with female Iraqi Parliamentarians. Finally, the delegation attended a luncheon with U.S. soldiers and visited an outpost where they received operational updates. On Thursday the delegation will visit the U.S. Consulate in Dubai, United Arab Emirates (UAE) to discuss in-depth classified matters. While in the UAE, the delegation also plans to visit to the U.S. Navy Detachment in Dubai and tour the Jebel Ali Port Facilities that house the Navy Detachment. On Friday and Saturday, the trip will conclude with two stops in Germany, first in the city of Stuttgart to meet with General William E. “Kip” Ward, the Commanding General of the U.S. Africa Command (AFRICOM) and gain insight on future operations within the Africa Command theater of operations. Finally, the delegation will travel to Landstuhl where they will tour Landstuhl Regional Medical Center, a U.S. military hospital that serves as the nearest treatment center for wounded servicemembers coming from Iraq and Afghanistan. While in the city of Landstuhl, the delegation will also visit Ramstein Air Force Base (AFB), which serves as headquarters for the United States Air Forces in Europe (USAFE). There the delegation will receive briefings from the USAFE Commander, as well as General Carter F. Ham, the Commander U.S. Army Forces Europe (USAREUR). On Sunday, the delegation will depart from Ramstein AFB returning to Washington, D.C.
07.22.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) joined today with his Democratic colleagues and fellow Members of the Blue Dog Coalition to pass H.R. 2920, the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go (“PAYGO”) Act. The bill marks a crucial step in bringing the federal budget under control by following the most basic of budgeting rules: don't spend money you don't have. “With the Blue Dogs leading the way, the Congress is committed to addressing the country’s long-term fiscal challenges,” Bishop, an original co-sponsor of the bill, said. “The Blue Dogs have worked tirelessly over the years to require the federal government to spend within its means. Today our goal is one step closer to becoming a reality. It is time to put an end to the out-of-control deficit spending that has led our country down such a fiscally disastrous path.” The bill requires Congress to offset all new policies that reduce revenues or expand spending. Discretionary spending is not subject to PAYGO, and exceptions can be made for emergencies. If the net effect of all new tax and spending legislation enacted during a session of Congress increased the deficit, there would be an across-the-board cut in certain mandatory programs. The PAYGO bill that passed the House today is similar to the statutory PAYGO law that was enacted in the 1990s, which helped reverse huge deficits, create budget surpluses, and produce an economic boom. The previous rules expired in 2002, which contributed to the dramatic turnaround from a projected surplus of $5.6 trillion to projected deficits of more than $11 trillion.
07.09.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) announced today that the House of Representatives passed the Fiscal Year 2010 Agriculture Appropriations bill, which includes $2.8 million in funding for six Southwest Georgia projects. “This bill comprehensively ensures the continued strength of our agricultural sector by allocating funds to some critical research and development projects that specifically tackle the needs of Georgia agriculture,” Bishop said. “Georgia agriculture is not only important to the local economy, but it is also taking on an increasingly important role in protecting America’s environment, making us energy independent, and providing our country with a healthy and safe food supply.” The following projects, which will impact Georgia and the Second Congressional district, were included in the FY 2010 Agriculture Appropriations bill approved today by the House of Representatives: • University of Georgia, College of Agricultural and Environmental Sciences (Athens, GA) – Cotton Insect Management and Fiber Quality Research, $346,000; • University of Georgia, College of Agricultural and Environmental Sciences (Athens, GA) – Research for Water Use and Water Quality Enhancements, $346,000; • University of Georgia, College of Agricultural and Environmental Sciences (Athens, GA) – Research on the Integrated Management Phytophthora Blight on Vegetables, $178,000; • University of Georgia, College of Agricultural and Environmental Sciences (Athens, GA) – Research Initiative to Improve Blueberry Production Efficiency, $209,000; • National Peanut Laboratory, $1,200,000; • Peanut Institute/Baylor Medical (Albany, GA), $254,000. For a complete summary of the Fiscal Year 2010 Agriculture Appropriations bill, please visit https://appropriations.house.gov. The House and Senate versions of the Agriculture bill will be considered by a Conference Committee later this year.
06.26.2009	Fighting for jobs and energy independence, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (D-GA02) voted today with the majority of his colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives to approve H.R. 2454, the American Clean Energy and Security Act. The legislation will help reduce America’s dependence on foreign oil, create millions of new clean energy jobs, and protect the environment. The vote was 219 to 212. “America’s dependence on foreign energy sources is a threat to its long-term interests,” said Bishop. Bishop added, “Our dependence on foreign oil prevents us from confronting a wide range of national security issues in countries such as Sudan, Iran, and Iraq. Even the least informed among us cannot help but be struck at the absurdity of waging a war on terrorism, on the one hand, while continuing to enthusiastically spend hundreds of billions each year on oil imports—a frightening percentage of which finds its way into the hands of terrorists and their supporters.” “Moreover,” Bishop remarked, “Our energy dependence places additional burdens on Americans during this economic downturn, as soaring fuel costs impact the transport and price of food and goods throughout the country.” “All credible science confirms that the earth’s climate is warming,” Bishop continued. “In fact, the global temperature is quickly approaching a level wholly unknown to human beings throughout the course of recorded history,” stated Bishop. “Protecting the health and the survival of the planet is not only a moral concern, but a religious issue as well. My faith tells me that we must act as responsible stewards of God’s creation. We must do everything we can to ensure that the Earth and all of God’s creatures are preserved for generations to come.” Among the most important provisions in H.R. 2454 is a requirement that electric utilities meet 20% of their electricity demand through renewable energy and become energy efficient by 2020. H.R. 2454 also provides over $190 billion for clean energy technologies such as biomass, biogas, and other renewable sources that can bring new economic opportunities to rural America. The bill includes a requirement for new energy savings standards for buildings and industry. In addition, the bill mandates that major U.S. contributors to greenhouse gases reduce their 2005 output of carbon emissions by 17% by 2020 and over 80% by 2050. Finally, H.R. 2454 contains a number of provisions to protect consumers from energy price increases. According to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO), under H.R. 2454, the typical American household will not see energy price increases in excess of 48 cents per day. Moreover, the Center for American Progress, after examining the CBO’s projected impact study of H.R. 2454, found that 31% of households in the Second Congressional District would actually receive an average net benefit of $40. The Center’s report goes on to mention that the remaining 69% of those in the Second Congressional District would pay an average of 11 cents per day for their energy needs. “In recent weeks, I have successfully argued for a number of important changes to the bill that will lessen the impact on consumers as well as farmers and agriculture,” stated Bishop. “H.R. 2454, however, still has a long way to go before it is brought to the President’s desk for his signature. The bill is not perfect, and no one is completely satisfied with all of its provisions. I am hopeful that it will be improved in the U.S. Senate and in the House-Senate Conference. In our zeal for perfection, we must not scoff at laudable progress. Despite the bill’s flaws, I believe that it is vital that America takes this important first step towards economic, energy, and environmental security."
06.18.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) announced today that the House of Representatives passed the Fiscal Year 2010 Commerce, Justice and Science (CJS) Appropriations bill which includes $1.5 million in funding for Southwest Georgia. “As a member of the Appropriations Committee, I constantly look for ways to help Southwest Georgia become a better place to live, work and raise a family,” Bishop said. “The CJS Appropriations bill funds important programs that provide critical support to our local law enforcement agencies and family support services.” The following Second District projects were included in the FY 2010 Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations bill approved today by the House of Representatives: • Building Toward Wellness Community Coalition, Inc. (Columbus, GA), $75,000; • Butler Police Department (Butler, GA), $75,000; • Calhoun County Family Connection (Edison, GA), $75,000; • City of Arlington, GA, $100,000; • City of Cairo, GA, $75,000; • Crawford Counseling and Community Learning Center (Roberta, GA), $50,000; • Dooly County Community Coalition/Family Connection (Vienna, GA), $75,000; • Family Center of Columbus (Columbus, GA), $200,000; • Miller County New Vision Coalition, Inc. (Colquitt, GA), $80,000; • Project Rebound, Inc. (Columbus, GA), $250,000; • Southwest Georgia Humanitarian Rural Outreach (Bainbridge, GA), $75,000; • Southwestern Judicial Circuit Family Violence Council, Inc. (Americus, GA), $75,000; • Taylor County Family Matters Collaborative (Butler, GA), $145,000; • Thomas County Emergency 9-1-1 Service (Thomasville, GA), $150,000. In addition to the funding for Southwest Georgia, the bill makes critical investments in programs that help local and state governments keep their citizens safe, as well as research and development programs that facilitate scientific innovation and discovery. In the area of justice and crime-prevention, the legislation significantly increases funding for the FBI to boost our national security efforts, address the growing threat of cyber crime and prosecute financial fraud. It invests heavily in protecting our borders by providing $2 billion for the Drug Enforcement Administration to combat drug trafficking. Additionally, the bill provides funding for the prosecution of violent crimes against women and strengthens services for the victims of domestic violence and sexual assault. The bill also makes significant investments in scientific research and innovation. Specifically, the legislation invests in science, technology, engineering and math education to help our students succeed in a global job market. It funds research to find ways to reduce global climate change, and it invests $6.9 billion in the National Science Foundation for the most promising scientific research and innovation. For a complete summary of the Fiscal Year 2010 Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations bill, please visit https://appropriations.house.gov. The House and Senate versions of the Commerce, Justice and Science bill will be considered by a Conference Committee later this year.
06.10.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) announced today that the House of Representatives on Tuesday voted unanimously to pass H. RES. 385, a bipartisan resolution to celebrate the life and work of Millard Fuller, the founder of Habitat for Humanity and the Fuller Center for Housing. Congressman Bishop sponsored the resolution in honor of Mr. Fuller, who passed away on February 3, 2009. Fuller was a longtime resident of Georgia’s Second Congressional District. Upon introduction, the resolution had 68 original co-sponsors. “Throughout his life, Millard Fuller's talent and passion were put on display in no small number of ways,” Bishop said in his remarks before the vote. “Although he obtained a great fortune from his tireless efforts as a businessman, he soon found that in order to live a life of fulfillment, he had to dedicate himself to a simple life of devotion and service to a higher purpose. As this resolution is voted on today, let us seek to emulate Millard Fuller's passion for the good and the just, and his selfless pursuit of a better, gentler world.” Since its founding in 1976, Habitat for Humanity has built more than 300,000 houses around the world, providing more than 1.5 million people in 3,000 communities with safe, decent, affordable shelter. The Fuller Center for Housing, created in 2005, partners with community churches, schools, businesses and civic organizations to build decent, affordable homes for people who are unable to secure adequate housing by conventional means.
06.09.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) today joined with fellow Members of the Blue Dog Coalition in strong support of President Obama as he urged members of both the House and Senate to pass legislation requiring that any new mandatory government spending be matched with budget cuts or savings elsewhere. In a White House press conference with members of the Coalition, the President announced his support for legislation that would reinstitute statutory pay-as-you-go (PAYGO) rules, a move long advocated by the Blue Dogs as a way to restore much-needed fiscal discipline to the federal government. “The Blue Dogs are committed to addressing the country’s long-term fiscal challenges and have worked tirelessly over the years to require the federal government to spend within its means,” Bishop said. “The President’s announcement today follows up on his commitment to PAYGO rules. I was proud to stand today with President Obama and my fellow Blue Dogs and I look forward to serving as an ally in Congress as both chambers move to pass this important legislation.” Today’s announcement marks the first time the Obama Administration has officially transmitted legislation to Congress, a sign of the President’s strong commitment to restoring fiscal responsibility and accountability to the federal government over the long-term.
06.03.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) on Tuesday submitted testimony to an International Trade Commission hearing in Washington, D.C., to explore the increase in Chinese tire imports in the U.S. markets. “The flood of tire imports over the last five years has been remarkable,” Bishop said. “It is no surprise then that there has been a steep decline in domestic production. The Chinese imports drove down our share of our own market which has resulted in layoffs, reduced capacity, and plant closings.” In April of this year, the United Steelworkers Union (USW) responded to the dramatic surge of consumer tire imports from China by filing a trade case under Section 421 of U.S. trade laws, which allows the U.S. to address surging imports into our markets. Today’s hearing was an investigation of the USW’s filing. Congressman Bishop has taken particular interest in this issue since the announcement last year by Cooper Tire and Rubber Company that it would close its factory in Albany, Ga., resulting in the loss of nearly 1,400 jobs. “The Cooper Tire Company has helped contribute to Albany’s growth and prosperity by providing good jobs at good wages,” Bishop said. “With the economic troubles now gripping Georgia, our country, and much of the world, it was a real setback to the hardworking citizens of Albany when the closing of the Cooper facility was announced.” Complete text of Congressman Bishop’s testimony at Tuesday’s hearing: Congressman Sanford Bishop Testimony for the Record Certain Passenger Vehicle and Light Truck Tires from the People’s Republic of China U.S. International Trade Commission Investigation No. TA-421-7 Tuesday, June 2, 2009 Madame Chairman and Members of the Commission, thank you for allowing me the opportunity to testify today on this very important issue. On behalf of my constituents in Georgia’s Second Congressional District, I am pleased to support the Section 421 petition filed by the United Steelworkers (USW) union. I am also pleased that a good number of my colleagues are in attendance today to express their support for this petition on behalf the people they represent. The flood of tire imports over the last five years has been remarkable. By volume, imports have tripled. By dollar value, imports have more than doubled. It is no surprise then that there has been a steep decline in domestic production. The Chinese imports drove down our share of our own market which has resulted in layoffs, reduced capacity, and plant closings. Just before Christmas of last year, Cooper Tire and Rubber Company announced it would close its factory in Albany, Georgia, resulting in the loss of nearly 1,400 jobs. You can only imagine the shock that this announcement brought on our workers and their families, and for that matter, the entire community. Albany is a beautiful town. It is the birthplace of Ray Charles and big band leader Harry James. In the early 1960s, a determined group of Albany citizens led a desegregation campaign that attracted national attention. The Cooper Tire Company has helped contribute to Albany’s growth and prosperity by providing good jobs at good wages. With the economic troubles now gripping Georgia, our country, and much of the world, it was a real setback to the hardworking citizens of Albany when the closing of the Cooper facility was announced. I am here today in a show of solidarity for all of the workers who are losing their jobs in Albany, as well as for all of those whose jobs are at stake as long as Chinese-made tires flood the domestic market. I commend the United Steelworkers, who represent some 15,000 workers in the tire industry, for bringing this petition. I urge the Commission to act now to spare these workers from the economic catastrophe that would come from preventable job losses. Congress was wise to create the Section 421 safeguard as China got Permanent Normal Trade Relations and admittance to the World Trade Organization. There was bipartisan support for having China join the community of trading nations, but of course, it was linked to their acceptance of certain rules such as Section 421. There was plenty of bipartisan caution about further liberalizing trade with China. After all, there had never been a country growing as a manufacturer and exporter with such ferocity and with such a different economic model than most other World Trade Organization Members. The Section 421 safeguard was a prudent device for dealing with possible surges. The Chinese understood this and they agreed to abide by its terms. In light of that, I was unhappy to see that Chinese officials apparently tried to improperly circumvent the procedures and provide the ITC with information outside the hearing process. I thank the Commission for putting a halt to that effort and making sure procedures were followed. The fact remains that the Section 421 safeguard should be applied whenever appropriate to correct the inequality that is part of trade in today’s global and fast-paced environment. But the USW petition makes a strong case that injury has occurred and will continue. If remedies exist, why not use them? President Obama has recast America’s image in the world and brightened its message. On trade policy, he has promised more stringent enforcement of trade laws and I welcome that stance. Now, I hope to see it put into practice. With your conclusion that injury has occurred or is threatened, and a recommendation for import relief, you can clear the path for the first step in a new direction in our country’s trade policy. Please consider the facts carefully, as I know you will, and recommend relief for Cooper Tire and all of America’s tire industry workers. Thank you.
05.14.2009	Albany, Ga. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) today announced that Hans Perez of Peach County High School in Fort Valley, Ga., is the winner of the 2009 Congressional Art Competition. Perez’s work, “Guarding Freedom,” will be displayed for one year in the U.S. Capitol, along with the winning entries from other Congressional districts across the country. “The goal of the Congressional Art Competition is to encourage young artists, promote art education and give recognition to the outstanding work that our schools are doing to enable young people to realize their potential,” Bishop said at today’s award ceremony. “Mr. Perez’s work is a worthy representation of the artistic talent in Southwest Georgia. He should be proud of this accomplishment.” In addition to the winning entry, the following runners-up were selected: Second runner up: Seung Kim of Columbus High School for “Springtime at the Cottage;” Third runner up: Kelly Canady of Thomas County Central High School for “Four Boats;” Honorable Mention: Karen Swann of Brookwood High School for “Untitled.” Judges for this year’s Second District contest were Dr. Ulf Kirchdorfer, Dean of Humanities and Professor of English at Darton College here in Albany, and Janice Rentz, President of the Georgia Artist Guild of Albany. Initiated by Members of Congress in 1982, the Congressional Art Competition is an annual art competition that allows high school students from all fifty states, the District of Columbia, and the U.S. Territories to showcase their artistic ability. The winning works from each Congressional District are displayed in a year-long exhibit in the Cannon tunnel that leads to the U.S. Capitol building.
05.14.2009	Washington, D.C. – The U.S. House of Representative’s Natural Resources Committee today held a hearing on H.R. 1471, legislation to expand the Jimmy Carter National Historic Site in Plains, Ga. Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) spoke at the hearing, which was hosted by the Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests and Public Lands. “I was pleased to sponsor this bipartisan legislation in the U.S. House of Representatives,” Bishop said at the hearing. “If passed, it will bolster the local economy, enhance tourism, and provide people from around the world with a new insight into the life and career of the 39th President of the United States.” Also speaking at today’s hearing in support of the bill was Georgia State Representative Mike Cheokas, who is presently serving his third term as a member of the Georgia House of Representatives for District 134, which includes the city of Plains. “The legislation would create new opportunities that would allow people of all walks of life to enjoy a walk back in time in our country's proud history,” Cheokas said. “The items to be included in the legislation would provide our fellow Americans rich historical perspectives of President Jimmy Carter and rural life in America years ago.” Representing the National Park Service, Stephen P. Whitesell, the Associate Director of Park Planning, Facilities, and Lands, also spoke in support of H.R. 1471. “The Department supports enactment of H.R. 1471,” Whitesell said. “This legislation would authorize the addition of properties to the Jimmy Carter historic site that would help broaden public understanding of the life and work of President Carter and enhance the visitor experience in Plains, Georgia.” In summary, the bill seeks to expand the national historic site’s authorized boundaries from 15 acres to 18 acres and would allow the National Park Service to acquire several additional properties for the park, including a house that the Carter family lived in from 1956-1961. Additionally, the legislation would redesignate the park from a national historic site to a national historical park and would direct that that the park preserve and interpret a southern agricultural-based rural community during the early to middle years of the 20th century.
04.30.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) today voted in favor of H.R. 627, the Credit Cardholders’ Bill of Rights Act, which will provide tough new protections for consumers facing excessive credit card fees, sky-high interest rates, and unfair, incomprehensible credit agreements. Congressman Bishop is a co-sponsor of the legislation. “When so many American families are struggling to make ends meet, consumers who play by the rules deserve to be treated fairly by their credit card companies,” Bishop said. “The Credit Cardholders’ Bill of Rights protects against unfair credit card practices and gives Americans the information and rights they need to make decisions about their financial lives.” The bill levels the playing field between card issuers and cardholders by applying common-sense reform and consumer protections to the credit industry. Included in the bill are regulations that will ban most retroactive interest rate hikes on existing balances, double-cycle billing – the practice of charging interest on debt consumers have already paid on time – and due-date gimmicks. The bill also increases the advance notice of impending rate hikes, requiring card companies to provide 45 days notice of all interest rate increases or significant contract changes. The bill passed the House of Representatives by a bipartisan vote of 357 to 70.
04.24.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) today praised President Obama and the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) for designating 17 Georgia counties as a federal disaster area. Under the major disaster declaration, individuals and business owners in affected areas are eligible for temporary housing and home repair grants, low-cost loans to cover uninsured property losses and other recovery programs. “I want to thank President Obama and FEMA for this very important designation that will provide much-needed relief to areas that have been hardest hit by the recent storms, flooding, tornadoes and high winds,” Bishop said. “As our area continues to recover, I encourage affected communities to take full advantage of this federal assistance.” The President's action makes Individual Assistance funding (for individuals and households) available to affected individuals in Berrien, Brantley, Brooks, Coffee, Colquitt, Decatur, Dougherty, Echols, Lanier, Lowndes, Miller, Mitchell, Pierce, Tift, Ware, Wheeler and Worth Counties. Public Assistance funding (for state and local governments and certain private nonprofit organizations for emergency work and the repair or replacement of disaster-damaged facilities) is available in Appling, Atkinson, Bacon, Baker, Ben Hill, Berrien, Clinch, Coffee, Colquitt, Early, Echols, Grady, Lowndes, Mitchell, Montgomery, Pierce, Toombs and Ware Counties. According to FEMA, residents and business owners who sustained losses in the designated counties can begin applying for assistance immediately by registering online at www.DisasterAssistance.gov or by calling 1-800-621-FEMA(3362) or 1-800-462-7585 (TTY) for the hearing and speech impaired. The toll-free telephone numbers will operate from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. (local time) seven days a week until further notice. For more information about the Federal Disaster declaration, please visit FEMA’s Georgia assistance web page at https://www.fema.gov/news/event.fema?id=11388. For information about including additional Georgia counties in the disaster area declaration, please contact the Georgia Emergency Management Agency (GEMA) at (404) 635-7000; https://www.gema.ga.gov.
04.23.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) today announced his support for a 46th Army Brigade Combat Team (BCT) which was scheduled to come to Fort Stewart in Liberty County, Ga. Earlier this month, Secretary of Defense Robert Gates announced that the Army will stop the growth of BCTs at 45 brigades, rather than the 48 brigades previously planned. “My concern is based on the increased need for Army combat troops in our global war against terror and the impact the BCT curtailment will have on Fort Stewart,” Bishop said in a letter to Secretary of the Army Pete Geren. “Military Construction funds have already been authorized and appropriated for the 46th BCT. Numerous housing, schools, and base infrastructure projects have begun, and investments by local businesses have been made, in preparation for receiving the new brigade. I am concerned about the disposition of the appropriated funds and impact on local business should Fort Stewart not receive the new BCT.” According to Bishop, Fort Stewart is an ideal location for military growth as it possesses one of the largest training areas east of the Mississippi capable of Army, Navy, Marine, and Air Force joint training. Additionally, it is the only post in the Army that is adjacent to both a sea and aerial port of debarkation.
04.06.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) today announced plans to tour the flood damaged areas of Southwest Georgia tomorrow, Tuesday, April 7, 2009. Last week, heavy rains caused widespread flooding in Southern Georgia, including the second district counties of Brooks, Calhoun, Decatur, Early, Lowndes, Mitchell, Baker and Miller. “My thoughts and prayers are with the citizens of the counties affected by the flooding, especially those who have suffered damage to their homes and possessions,” Bishop said. “Tomorrow, I will accompany officials from the Georgia Emergency Management Agency as they begin the process of assessing the damage to our area. Most importantly, I want everyone to know that my office is available and will continue to provide assistance and the most up-to-the-minute information as this situation develops.” Tomorrow, officials from the Georgia Emergency Management Agency (GEMA) will be on the ground to begin the process of individual damage assessments. Public assessments will be conducted at a later date once the floodwaters have receded. Currently, local and state emergency and public works personnel, volunteers, humanitarian organizations and other private interest groups are providing the emergency assistance required to protect the public's health and safety. According to GEMA, other affected second district counties include Crisp, Dougherty, Grady, Lee, Muscogee, Thomas and Worth. Emergency Contact Information: Michael Bryant, Congressman Bishop’s Thomasville Office: (229) 226-7789 Jamey Crozier, Congressman Bishop’s Albany Office: (229)439-8067 Georgia Emergency Management Agency (GEMA): https://www.gema.ga.gov Charles Dawson, GEMA Director of Operations: (404) 635-7001 Jonna West, GEMA Field Coordinator: (404) 683-3339
03.26.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (D-GA02) released the following statement today regarding the passing of John Hope Franklin: “I was deeply saddened to hear of John Hope Franklin’s passing. Mr. Franklin was truly a champion of the Civil Rights Movement, helping to end segregation in public schools and weaving black history into American history in his celebrated work, ‘From Slavery to Freedom.’ As an African-American Member of the United States Congress, I stand on the shoulders of civil rights heroes like Mr. Franklin, and I acknowledge that I would not be where I am today were it not for his courageous efforts. “The nation has truly lost a distinguished scholar, historian and icon. However, John Hope Franklin’s legacy will endure through the millions of lives he touched.”
03.12.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) today announced bi-partisan legislation to expand the Jimmy Carter National Historic site located in Plains, Ga. Proposed improvements include the creation of a park campground, development of a multi-use trail and enhanced facilities for the maintenance and curatorial functions. "Jimmy Carter possesses a level of commitment to his country and the cause of humanity that has only rarely been matched,” Bishop said. “The Jimmy Carter National Historic site does a remarkable job of helping people to understand the values that shaped this great Georgian. This bill will ensure that the site will continue to inspire generations of visitors, as well as grow and positively impact the economies of Plains and Sumter County through increased opportunities for tourism.” Specifically, the legislation seeks to make the following improvements: * Establish camping facilities at the Georgia Welcome Center, located on U.S. Highway 280 in Plains; * Create a multi-use trail that would run along the Southwest Georgia Railroad lines and connect the new campground, the city of Plains and the boyhood farm; * Develop a new site for the park’s maintenance facility and curatorial storage; * Acquire the property that was Billy Carter’s gas station, as well as the “Haunted House,” the oldest house in Sumter County, where the Carters lived before their current residence. “I took lessons I learned growing up in Plains to the White House and beyond,” President Carter said. “I see this legislation, which has the potential to improve tourism and other areas of the local economy, as a way for me, in some small way, to give back to Plains all that it did for me.” The Jimmy Carter National Historic Site and Preservation District was established by Congress in 1987. The current historic site consists of the Plains Railroad depot, Jimmy Carter’s boyhood home, Plains High School, the Carter Compound (Carter’s current residence), and 100 feet of scenic easements along both sides of U.S. Highway 280. For more information about the park, visit www.nps.gov/jica.
03.09.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) today announced that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has awarded $173,852 in Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) funding to three Southwest Georgia fire departments. The funds, to be used for staffing, equipment and training, will be distributed as follows: • $93,936 to the Terrell County Fire Department in Dawson, Ga.; • $20,066 to the Quitman County Fire Department in Georgetown, Ga.; • $59,850 to the Sylvester Fire Department in Sylvester, Ga. “These grants benefit our local fire departments by providing much-needed resources to the first responders who keep our communities safe and secure in times of crisis,” Bishop said. “Emergency personnel serve the needs of the community each and every day, and these grants will ensure that they have the equipment and training they need to do their job.” For more information about FEMA’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant program, please visit www.firegrantsupport.com.
03.03.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (D-GA02) today announced the release of $1.3 million that will support Southwest Georgia Health Care in Richland, Ga. These funds, authorized by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act and administered by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’ Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA), will help citizens with little or no health insurance obtain access to primary and preventive health care services while also creating health care jobs in Georgia’s Second Congressional District. “As a public servant, it is my duty to ensure that all of my constituents have access to affordable, quality health care,” Bishop said. “Too many children, adults and seniors live in rural areas with limited or no health care options. The funding released this week will allow Southwest Georgia Health Care to continue to provide quality health care to the Southwest Georgia communities that depend on them.” Southwest Georgia Health Care provides comprehensive primary health care services through nine medical and dental centers located in Americus, Cordele, Eastman, Georgetown, Cusseta, Plains, Richland and Rochelle. The primary care health centers serve the populations of Chattahoochee, Dodge, Quitman, Stewart, Sumter, Webster and Wilcox counties, in addition to adjoining four surrounding counties of Schley, Marion, Randolph and Clay counties in Georgia, and Barbour County in Alabama. “In these difficult economic times, the need for our programs and services has continued to increase,” Ajay Gehlot, CEO of Southwest Georgia Health Care, said. “These funds will help us, not only in providing a safety net for the most vulnerable populations in our communities-uninsured, elderly and very young, but will also create more jobs and service opportunities in the area.” Nationwide, grants totaling $155 million will assist 126 health centers and help provide health care to an estimated 750,000 low-income people across the country. The grants are expected to create 5,500 jobs at the new health centers across the country.
02.25.2009	“Last November, the American people demanded change both at home and abroad. I am pleased that President Obama tonight presented a comprehensive plan to combat the country’s economic and financial challenges – a plan that will bring about the change that this country so desperately needs to stimulate the economy, create jobs, get consumer credit flowing, relieve the housing crisis and bring accountability to our financial system. “There are many components to the President’s plan, but each is dependent on the next and none of them can stand alone. The challenges we face are interrelated, and if we are to see our economy through to a brighter day, we must address them all. Tonight the President called on Congress and the American people to confront these challenges, to take the steps required to bring fiscal stability and to grow our economy over the long term. “The President also spoke tonight about reforming the budget, and promised the American people that he will work to reduce the deficit by half in his first term as president. Later this week, President Obama will send his budget outline to the Hill and I look forward to working with my colleagues in the House to ensure that we bring responsible spending back to our nation’s budget to reflect the President’s vision.”
02.19.2009	Washington, D.C. – Georgia’s Democratic Congressional delegation has selected an informal panel to advise the delegation regarding Presidential appointments to selected judgeships on the district courts, U.S. Attorneys, and U.S. Marshals in Georgia. President Obama has asked the delegation to make recommendations for these positions, and the delegation will consider the advice of the panel when making its recommendations to the President. At present, applications are being taken for the following openings: Three for the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Georgia One for the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Georgia The U.S. Attorney for all three districts The U.S. Marshal for all three districts Expressions of interest should be accompanied by a resume. Applicants should be prepared to respond to requests for additional information from members of the panel. Interested individuals should apply as soon as possible, but no later than March 2, 2009, to George (Buddy) Darden, at bdarden@mckennalong.com Members of the panel are as follows: Senator David Adelman Tom Bordeaux, Esq. Senator Robert Brown Robert Burroughs, Esq. Jim Butler, Esq. Charles Byrd, Esq. George (Buddy) Darden, Esq. – Chairman Harold Franklin, Esq. Sharon Gay, Esq. Judge Jack Ruffin Nyota Tucker, Esq. Michael Williams, Esq.
01.05.2009	U.S. Representative Sanford Bishop issued the following statement after learning of the passing of Griffin Bell, the longtime Judge and former U.S. Attorney General: “I am deeply saddened by the loss of this great American and public servant. We have lost a true friend and a prominent leader. Griffin Bell’s distinguished service as a civil rights advocate, U.S. attorney general, World War II veteran, and federal courts judge reflects his lifelong commitment to public service and the American people. Throughout his career in public service, he strove to bring people together and resolve differences in a pragmatic manner, and in the process, he made an historic difference.” “He was certainly a strong influence in my own life. In fact, he was an inspiring mentor to countless numbers of young people over the years. Griffin Bell was looked up to and loved by everyone, and he will be greatly missed.”
10.01.2008	Washington, D.C. Congressman Sanford Bishop announced today that legislation which will provide 180 days of transitional health care to service members who separate honorably from active duty and agree to serve in the National Guard or Selected Reserve will soon become law. Bishop authored the legislative language and offered it as an amendment to the House version of the 2009 Defense Authorization bill, which passed last spring. The final version of the bill was recently approved by both chambers of Congress, and will soon go to President Bush, who has indicated he will sign the bill into law. “Without the right incentives to retain trained and experienced Guard and Reserves forces, our nation will face greater challenges keeping the threat of terrorism at bay,” Congressman Bishop said. “It is in the interest of national security that we retain these highly skilled men and women, and incentives such as transitional health care will help accomplish that objective by providing the brave men and women of our military with an extra measure of comfort as they move back to civilian life.” Currently, when an active duty service member retires or is involuntarily separated from military service, he or she is afforded 180 days of transitional health care at no cost. Service members, however, who have served honorably and simply leave active duty at the end of their contractual agreement are not afforded transitional health care. They may be entitled to the Continued Health Care Benefit Program (CHCBP) up to 18 months although it may be too cost-prohibitive for a soldier and his/her family just leaving the service. Current fees are more than $900 for an individual (per quarter) and approximately $2,000 for families (per quarter). By providing 180 days of health care at no cost, the Bishop proposal will allow these separating service members some measure of relief knowing that their families will have health care coverage as they make the transition to the civilian workforce or continue their education. The benefits also will be long-term savings in training costs by encouraging the retaining of skilled service members in the Selected Reserve, especially those soldiers with proven leadership and maturity. The Congressional Budget Office estimates that the legislation has the potential to retain 13,000 trained and ready services members in our National Guard and Selected Reserve every year. The amendment is the text of a bipartisan bill authored by Bishop along with U.S. Representatives Steve Buyer (R-IN), Gene Taylor (D-MS), and Jeff Miller (R-FL). In the Senate, the amendment was championed by Senators Saxby Chambliss (R-GA) and Mark Pryor (D-AR). The transitional health care measure had been supported by the National Guard Army/Air, the Army Reserve, the Navy Reserve, the Marine Corps Reserve, the Air Force Reserve, and the Coast Guard Reserve. In addition, it had been supported by the Guard and Reserve professional organizations as well as our nation’s leading veterans’ organizations including the National Guard Association of the United States, the Association of the United States Army, the Reserve Officers Association, the Military Officers Association of America, the National Association for Uniformed Services, the Veterans of Foreign Wars, and the America Legion. Overall, the FY 2009 Department of Defense Authorization authorizes $531.4 billion in budget authority for the Department of Defense and the national security programs of the Department of Energy. The bill also authorizes $68.6 billion to support ongoing military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan during FY 2009.
09.01.2008	Washington, D.C.– Congressman Sanford Bishop today reminded Southwest Georgia farmers of an important upcoming deadline for disaster assistance programs. Farmers who are eligible for disaster assistance under certain new Supplemental Agricultural Disaster Assistance programs for losses caused by natural disasters in calendar year 2008, but who are not fully covered by crop insurance or the Noninsured Crop Disaster Assistance Program (NAP), only have until Sept. 16, 2008, to pay the "buy-in" fee for 2008 crops, including grazing lands. “It seems lately that Georgia has managed to be plagued by almost every form of foul weather at just the wrong times. So I would encourage our farmers to enroll in these programs to ensure they have options should a crop be ruined,” said Bishop. The 2008 Farm bill (the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008) authorized five new Supplemental Agricultural Disaster Assistance programs: the Supplemental Revenue Assistance Payment (SURE) program; Livestock Forage Disaster Program (LFP); Tree Assistance Program (TAP); Livestock Indemnity Program (LIP); and the Emergency Assistance for Livestock, Honey bees and Farm-raised Fish (ELAP) program. The “buy-in" waiver applies to SURE, TAP, LFP and ELAP for 2008 crop production and livestock losses. To be eligible under the 2008 Farm bill for disaster assistance under SURE, ELAP and TAP, producers must have enrolled in crop insurance or NAP for all crops in all counties in which they have an interest, including grazing and hayland. To be eligible for disaster assistance for LFP, producers need only have crop insurance or NAP coverage for the specific grazing land for which assistance is being requested. For more information on the “buy-in” waiver and applicable fee, please contact your local FSA County Office before the September 16 deadline. Or, visit https://www.fsa.usda.gov for more information
09.01.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sanford Bishop last night voted to address our nation’s energy crisis, reduce gas prices, protect taxpayers, and lessen America’s need for foreign oil by supporting the Comprehensive American Energy Security and Consumer Protection Act. The legislation, which includes provisions to expand domestic drilling both off-shore and on land, passed the House by a vote of 236 to 189. “More production of oil and natural gas is needed, but it will not get us to energy independence alone. This legislation will provide us with a supply of domestic energy and give us the tools we will need to wean ourselves off foreign oil over the long term,” said Bishop. The bill provides the largest opening of land offshore for oil and gas development in our nation’s history by making available the vast areas of the Outer Continental Shelf. Also, it makes available a potential 1.8 trillion barrels of oil by lifting the moratorium on development of oil shale in Colorado, Utah and Wyoming. Additionally, the bill ensures that oil companies are producing energy products from land already in their possession and mandates annual lease sales in the National Petroleum Reserve in Alaska. To promote energy independence, the bill extends and expands tax incentives for renewable energy, including plug-in vehicles, renewable electricity, solar and wind, as well as energy efficient homes, buildings and appliances. The bill also encourages every region of the country to be a potential producer by calling for cellulosic biofuels to be produced from a highly diverse array of feed stocks and creates a renewable energy reserve to invest in clean energy sources and fund the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP). To protect American taxpayers, the bill reforms several laws and loopholes which currently allow Big Oil to avoid paying their fair share of taxes. It is estimated that lost revenue from the current, cozy arrangement between Big Oil and the federal government costs American taxpayers about $15 billion. “Make no mistake, this legislation is not the ultimate solution to our energy crisis, but a decisive first step toward securing our energy future. I am disappointed in my Republicans colleagues who voted against this bill, which gives our country exactly what the majority of the American people have been calling for - more drilling,” said Congressman Bishop. “The perfect should not be the enemy of the good, and this legislation, which will be perfected further in the Senate, is a good bill.”
09.01.2008	Washington, D.C. – Yesterday, Greg Murray of Bainbridge testified at a Congressional hearing on the impact of the recent salmonella outbreak on the Georgia Tomato Industry and Georgia Agriculture. The hearing, hosted by the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture of which Congressman Sanford Bishop is a member, covered several food safety-related topics, including shortcomings within the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) that initially suggested tomatoes were the cause of the deadly outbreak. The outbreak, which eventually was linked to Mexican-grown jalapeño peppers, cost Georgia tomato farmers an estimated $13.9 million. “In 25 years of growing tomatoes, our farm has experienced floods, hail storms, freezes, droughts, poor yields, poor markets, disease and insect infestations and many other difficulties,” testified Murray, who farms more than 80 acres of tomatoes each year. “But the one thing we have never had to face was a public hysteria attack caused by the media and agencies of the federal government. No amount of planning could have prepared us for what we faced this June as we started harvesting our spring crop of tomatoes.” Murray, who termed last summer’s recall the “false food safety awareness fiasco,” contributed testimony about his own experience, pointing out certain aspects of the situation which prolonged and worsened effects on Georgia’s tomato farmers. “Each day the CDC and FDA were announcing more salmonella cases had been reported. The messages were confusing,” said Murray. “Consumers could not understand the reported salmonella cases were from product consumed three to five weeks ago, not product currently on the market. So the safest thing for a consumer, or a food outlet was to just not purchase or consume tomatoes.” Murray also made several recommendations to the panel on preventing another “fiasco” in the future, including institution of a food safety program that considers regional production differences and product risk levels, and a plan of action that demands state and federal agencies work together with the agriculture and food industry on future responses. He also asked for partial compensation for growers and shippers who suffered financially during salmonella scare through no fault of their own. Following today’s hearing, the Committee hopes to begin the process of examining FDA’s current food safety guidelines. In particular, the Committee will focus on how, during outbreaks of food-borne illness, potential sources of contamination can be narrowed to prevent more financially devastating false-alarm recalls. Meanwhile, Congressman Bishop this week formally asked House leadership to consider providing $100 million to cover crop losses resulting from what many believe was the FDA’s mishandling of the salmonella outbreak. “We cannot have another summer like the past one. As long as this country produces a domestic supply of food and fiber, we will have incidences of contamination every now and then. But we cannot and must not allow those relatively rare situations to affect entire unrelated industries ever again,” said Congressman Bishop.
09.01.2008	Washington, D.C. Congressman Sanford Bishop today issued the following statement on the economic crisis currently facing the nation: “Like many of my colleagues, I believe our economy is broken and in need of a fix. But when it comes to giving the thumbs up and voting right away for legislation exactly as it was proposed by the Bush Administration – well, this isn’t my first time at that rodeo. “Several times over the past eight years, the Bush Administration has asked Congress to pass legislation as soon as possible, or risk dire implications for our life and liberty. We went into Iraq and approved infringements upon our civil liberties that way. And, now, the Administration wants us to pass a bill as soon as possible with no time for questions or else risk the collapse of the global economy. “Make no mistake, action is needed. But I have learned an important lesson over the past eight years, and I do not believe any good can come out of approving hastily drawn plans by the Bush Administration. “Right now, the same administration that denied a recession even existed has turned around and demanded us to act in a matter of days to prevent an economic depression. But I do not believe we should invest without a purpose, and that purpose should be measurable in its outcome. Any policy adopted must help Americans suffering on Main Street just as much as it must stem the crisis on Wall Street. “Ensuring these kinds of provisions for the American people might cause a delay of a few days or even weeks. But, to me, it is worth the wait to ensure the legislation can truly bring our economy out of recession, create jobs for the unemployed, and preserve the billions of dollars in retirement savings tied up in troubled Wall Street firms. “For the taxpayers, for those in foreclosure, and for the unemployed, it is incumbent upon us as Members of Congress to put the brakes on this speeding train and ask the right questions before approving such a costly and far-reaching bill.”
09.01.2008	Washington, D.C. – With the October 15 deadline to file a 2007 income tax return fast approaching, Congressman Bishop today urged his constituents to take the necessary steps to ensure they receive their economic stimulus payments. This includes the estimated 4.3 million retirees and disabled veterans who may be eligible to receive a stimulus payment, but who normally don’t file a tax return. “At a time when the price of almost everything is rising, it is absolutely crucial that everyone who is eligible, especially our seniors, veterans, and disabled citizens, take the necessary steps to receive their economic stimulus checks,” said Bishop. “If you or a friend or loved one falls into one of these categories, I strongly urge you to please fill out the forms necessary to receive the stimulus payments.” The IRS has yet to hear from an estimated 4.2 million people who receive certain Social Security benefits and 178,000 who receive certain Veterans Affairs benefits. The agency twice has sent to this group letters that enclosed a Form 1040A, a sample tax form and instructions for sending the tax return to the IRS. If these instructions have been misplaced, the fastest way to obtain a Package 1040A-3 is to go to IRS.gov or to local IRS offices. There are more than 400 local offices nationwide where people can get assistance in preparing the return as well. A return also can be prepared and submitted for free through Free File which is available at IRS.gov. Those with specific questions may also contact 1-866-234-2942.
09.01.2008	Washington, D.C. – With the October 15 deadline to file a 2007 income tax return fast approaching, Congressman Bishop today urged his constituents to take the necessary steps to ensure they receive their economic stimulus payments. This includes the estimated 4.3 million retirees and disabled veterans who may be eligible to receive a stimulus payment but who normally don’t file a tax return. “At a time when the price of almost everything is rising, it is absolutely crucial that everyone who is eligible, especially our seniors, veterans, and disabled citizens, take the necessary steps to receive their economic stimulus checks,” said Bishop. “If you or a friend or loved one falls into one of these categories, I strongly urge you to please fill out the forms necessary to receive the stimulus payments.” The IRS has yet to hear from an estimated 4.2 million people who receive certain Social Security benefits and 178,000 who receive certain Veterans Affairs benefits. The agency twice has sent to this group letters that enclosed a Form 1040A, a sample tax form and instructions for sending the tax return to the IRS. If these instructions have been misplaced, the fastest way to obtain a Package 1040A-3 is to go to IRS.gov or to local IRS offices. There are more than 400 local offices nationwide where people can get assistance in preparing the return as well. A return also can be prepared and submitted for free through Free File which is available at IRS.gov. Those with specific questions may also contact 1-866-234-2942.
08.01.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sanford Bishop today announced that Quitman, Clay, Randolph and Stewart counties will receive $485,000 in funding from the United States Department of Transportation to establish a new rural transit program. "I am so pleased to know this funding has come through. We have advocated long and hard for this project which will help the many southwest Georgians who lack a reliable mode of transportation and cannot get to work, to the store, to the doctor, or anywhere else that requires the use of a vehicle," said Bishop. No efficient, centralized transportation option has ever been available for residents in Quitman, Clay, Randolph and Stewart Counties, a problem which imposes a burden on elderly, disabled, and low-income residents. Realizing this need, Bishop, as a member of the House Appropriations Committee, requested funding for a rural transit system for the area in 2003. The Committee approved funding pending development of a specific transit plan, which was recently completed with the assistance of the Lower Chattahoochee Regional Development Center (LCRDC). The main transit facility will be located in the Springvale Community in Randolph County, a central location to the four-county transit area. In addition to offering a reliable, affordable mode of transportation to area residents, the rural transit system is also expected to aid in reducing unemployment by helping more residents travel to and from jobs in neighboring communities.
07.01.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sanford Bishop today applauded passage of the Homes for Heroes Act, which will expand housing services and assistance for homeless veterans. The legislation, which Bishop co-sponsored, cleared the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 412 to 9. “In the United States of America, it is unconscionable to me that so many of our veterans live without a roof over their head. They honored us with their service, and we absolutely must honor them with a place to call home,” said Bishop. The Department of Veterans Affairs estimates that more than 400,000 veterans are homeless at some point during the year. It also estimates that nearly 200,000 veterans are homeless on any given night. The Homes for Heroes Act will confront this situation head-on with a $200 million-per-year assistance program for supportive housing and services for low-income homeless veterans and their families at the Department of Housing and Urban Development. It also makes at least 20,000 rental housing vouchers a year available to homeless veterans and their families, and allows veterans’ families to continue to receive the assistance provided for in the bill in the event of the veteran’s death.
07.01.2008	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (D-GA) today applauded action taken by the U.S. House of Representatives to override President Bush’s veto of legislation that would have prevented an 11% pay cut to doctors who treat Medicare patients. The House vote of 383 to 41 surpassed the two-thirds majority required to override a presidential veto. “As the baby boom generation retires, Congress must do all that it can to ensure that our nation’s current and future senior citizens have access to affordable health care. Preventing these payment cuts is a good start,” said Bishop. The legislation, the Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers Act, blocks a 10.6% cut in payments to physicians treating Medicare patients. This cut was scheduled to take effect on July 1, 2008. The bill also freezes the current payment rates through the end of the year, and provides for a 1.1% increase for 2009. “Should these cuts have taken effect, many physicians would have found it too costly to continue to treat their Medicare patients,” said Bishop. The legislation also includes provisions benefiting rural America, including authorization of almost $105 million for a federal grant program to help states provide health services to Iraq and Afghanistan war veterans living in rural areas. Another $5 million authorization will go toward grants for small “critical access hospitals” located in rural areas that are making a transition to skilled nursing and assisted living facilities. The legislation now moves to the Senate.
07.01.2008	Washington, D.C. Congressman Sanford Bishop announced today that his friend and former legislative aide for military affairs, Lieutenant Colonel Robert J. Young, will deploy to Iraq next month following a week of training at Fort Benning, in the Second Congressional District. During LTC Young’s deployment, his first to the Middle East, he will be assigned to the Office of Provincial Affairs at the US Embassy in Baghdad. “Rob is an outstanding soldier. He served the Second District honorably as my military fellow and I have also been able to count on him over at the Pentagon. I will truly miss being able to call on his expertise and counsel,” said Bishop. “Of course, it is with a tremendous sense of pride that we send him off to serve our nation – I know America needs him in Iraq more than we do here on Capitol Hill.” Since serving as Congressman Bishop’s Military Fellow in 2006, LTC Young has led the Army Reserve’s government affairs office as the Chief of Government Relations, serving as the primary interface between the Congress and the United States Army Reserve. “I thoroughly enjoyed working for Congressman Bishop and serving the constituents of Georgia’s Second District,” said Young. “I look forward to serving our country and the citizens of Iraq as a member of the State Department’s Provincial Reconstruction Team.” Though LTC Young will be based in the International Zone in Baghdad, he will spend much of his deployment traveling across the war-torn country to assess the progress of and assist local governments with rebuilding efforts. Inspecting infrastructure and school building projects, as well as overseeing investments by local governments all will be part of LTC Young’s responsibilities in the country. LTC Young is a native of Marlton, NJ, and a graduate of the U.S. Military Academy at West Point. He also has a Masters in Business Administration from the University of Florida.
06.01.2008	Washington, D.C.- Congressman Sanford Bishop today released the following statement on the Gaibler Peanut Loan Rate Cut proposal: “I do not understand why a proposal to reduce the loan rate of runner peanuts, which comprise eighty percent of U.S. production and are grown primarily in the Southeastern United States, was not debated during the Farm bill that Congress only recently passed. This plan would arbitrarily reduce the loan rate for peanut farmers and hurt growers across the Southeast. “I plan to contact the Secretary of Agriculture on this issue and urge him to prevent the proposal from moving forward.”
06.01.2008	Washington D.C. Congressman Sanford Bishop, Representative for Georgia’s Second Congressional District, today announced that the SOWEGA Council on Aging (COA) will soon receive a $245,000 grant from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, which it plans to put toward building a new senior center. “The SOWEGA COA has done a great job of serving senior citizens and helping those in need since 1966. A new senior center will continue its legacy of giving back to the community,” said Congressman Bishop. “This project will impact the lives of many area seniors for years to come.” SOWEGA COA helps seniors transition into the better parts of their lives with various activities by providing helpful resources and fostering a community atmosphere. It allows the elderly to not only enjoy life, but also teaches them how to live healthy and stress free. “The SOWEGA COA wants to thank Congressman Bishop for his continued interest and support of the senior citizens in Southwest Georgia. We are looking forward to using the grant for the construction of a new senior center in Albany,” said Kay Hind, Executive Director for the Council. “We are grateful for the support Congressman Bishop gives to senior citizens in our Southwest Georgia district. We are excited about this grant as we move forward with a state-of-the-art new senior center which will help us better serve our clients,” said SOWEGA COA board president Reba Stewart. SOWEGA COA represents a diverse set of individuals in fourteen counties throughout southwest Georgia. Its numerous programs are geared to the health and well being of its members. For more information, contact 229-432-1124.
06.01.2008	Washington, D.C. The U.S. House of Representatives today approved a bill honoring the legacy of the United States Infantry with the minting of a commemorative coin. Congressmen Sanford Bishop (D-GA) and Lynn Westmoreland (R-GA), who represent the “Home of the Infantry,” Fort Benning, in Congress, served as the legislation’s lead Democrat and Republican co-sponsors, respectively. The measure, H.R. 3229, had 290 co-sponsors overall. “I am proud to represent ‘The Home of the Infantry’ – Fort Benning – in Congress, and humbled and honored to be a co-sponsor of this legislation,” said Bishop on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives. “A great nation is measured in part by how it remembers those who defended, preserved, and contributed to its heritage. The United States Army Infantry has contributed greatly over the years at a tremendous human cost, and it is beholden to those of us serving in Congress to pay tribute to their sacrifices.” Money raised through the sale of the coins will go toward maintaining the National Infantry Museum at Fort Benning. The 200-acre site, which is already under construction, will serve as a tribute to the infantry’s legacy of valor and sacrifice. The museum will honor Infantry Soldiers for their selfless service to our country and preserve for all time the artifacts that tell their stories. “For more than 200 years, our Infantry has defended our lives and our freedom, and no tribute can repay what these soldiers have given their fellow Americans,” U.S. Rep. Lynn Westmoreland said. “The Infantry coin itself is part of our continuing efforts to honor those who served on the front lines for this nation, and sales of the coin will honor them in perpetuity by creating an endowment that will fund the maintenance of the National Infantry Museum at Fort Benning. I’m humbled to play a role in shining a spotlight on these American heroes. The museum is a great attraction for Columbus and sales of this coin will go a long way toward its success in the future.” “Passing of this coin legislation is a significant milestone in the National Infantry Foundation’s efforts in recognizing 233 years of sacrifice to this nation,” said Major Gen. (Ret.) Jerry White, Chairman of the National Infantry Foundation. The legislation now moves to the Senate for consideration.
06.01.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sanford Bishop yesterday backed an Emergency Appropriations bill that includes funding for an extension of unemployment benefits and a landmark expansion of the GI Bill of Rights. The bipartisan legislation was backed by Democrats, Republicans and the White House and was approved by a vote of 416-12. “Our men and women in uniform are bright, dedicated, and hard working individuals who deserve every chance at receiving an education when they leave the military. I am so proud to have supported legislation that, at last, gives them that opportunity," said Congressman Bishop. More than 43,973 men and women from Georgia have been deployed to Iraq or Afghanistan since September 11, 2001. Unfortunately, current benefits pay only about 70 percent of a public college education and 30 percent of a private college education for these veterans when they return home. The expanded GI Bill will restore full, four-year college scholarships to veterans of the Iraq and Afghanistan wars to help make them part of an economic recovery like the veterans of World War II. The legislation will also allow veterans to transfer those benefits to family members. The Supplemental Appropriations bill also includes provisions to provide a 13 week extension of unemployment benefits for those workers who are unable to find a job in today’s struggling economy. The economy has lost nearly 325,000 jobs this year and 1.6 million Americans have been unemployed more than six months, despite looking for work. “Ensuring unemployed Americans can make ends meet in a sagging economy is just common sense,” added Bishop. The legislation approved by the House today also includes $161.8 billion that will support the cost of military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan through the summer of 2009.
06.01.2008	Washington – U.S. Representative Sanford Bishop today applauded the passage of a revised version of the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations bill which includes $350 million to replace Martin Army Community Hospital at Fort Benning. Bishop noted that the latest version of the bill was negotiated and supported by Democratic and Republican leaders and the White House. “I am very pleased the chief negotiators of this bill recognized the importance of replacing some of our nation’s oldest military medical facilities. Providing our men and women in uniform access to modern, state-of-the-art medical facilities is simply the right thing to do,” said Congressman Bishop. The funding is part of a $860 million provision to rebuild and address critical infrastructure needs at other aging military hospitals in order to prevent the types of problems that surfaced at Walter Reed Army Medical Center last year. Martin Army Hospital was constructed in 1957 and is one of the oldest in the Army Medical Department inventory. The Army has identified Martin Army Hospital as the top priority hospital replacement project in the United States due to its age and future requirements as Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) and Global Rebasing operations move forward. The Army estimates that, eventually, up to 100,000 soldiers, military trainees, retirees, civilians, and their families will be eligible to use the new hospital. In recent years, the services have identified billions of dollars in recapitalization requirements for which current budgetary allotments are insufficient, but which desperately need funding due to the condition of the facilities. The funding problems will be exacerbated in the immediate future as installations like Fort Benning add thousands of personnel, dependent families, and departments due to BRAC, and as more wounded soldiers return from service in Iraq and Afghanistan. The allocations for military medical facilities in the Emergency Supplemental will relieve some pressure on the backlog of projects needing funding. The Emergency Supplemental was taken up as two amendments. The first provides funding for the ongoing wars in Iraq and Afghanistan and was approved 268-155. The second, which includes funding for Martin Army Hospital and addresses some of the country’s other domestic emergencies such as a modern-day GI Bill for veterans, disaster aid for flooding in the Midwest and extended unemployment insurance for those affected by the economic downturn, was approved 416-12. The Senate is expected to pass a similar version of the measure next week. A link to a complete summary of the bill can be found on the House Appropriations committee’s website.
06.01.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sanford Bishop announced today he has secured $855,000 for Hydrillia control at Jim Woodruff Lock and Dam on Lake Seminole. The funding was included in the FY 2009 Energy and Water Appropriations bill approved yesterday by the House Appropriations Committee, of which Bishop is a member. “I know how important the environmental health and well-being of Lake Seminole is to communities in Decatur and Seminole county. I am so pleased to have helped secure this funding, which will ensure the waters of the lake remain navigable, clean, and accessible,” said Bishop Overall, the FY 2009 Energy and Water Appropriations bill allocates $33.26 billion to the Department of Energy and related agencies. This year’s bill, more than ever before, invests in initiatives aimed to tackle the nation’s energy crisis and relieve the enormous financial burden high energy costs impose on working families. To this end, the bill includes $2.5 billion for energy efficiency and renewable energy programs, including research and development into alternative fuels and conservation block grants to help states and local communities use energy more efficiently. The full House of Representatives will consider the bill next month. For a complete summary of the bill, please see the House Appropriations Committee’s website. The following Second District project was included in the FY 2009 Energy and Water Appropriations bill, approved yesterday by the House Appropriations Committee: • Jim Woodruff Lock and Dam, Lake Seminole (FL, GA, and AL) – To assist in controlling growth of Hydrillia - $855,000
06.01.2008	Washington, D.C. – A bill that includes over $1.25 million secured by Congressman Sanford Bishop for seventeen Second District organizations gained the approval of the powerful House Appropriations Committee yesterday. Each organization will use funding from the bill, the FY 2009 Commerce, Justice, and Science Appropriations bill, to administer programs for at-risk, abused, and low-income children, the elderly and working families. “This funding will touch the lives of the youngest and most vulnerable citizens in communities across the Second District,” said Bishop, a member of the Appropriations Committee. “I am honored to have been able to help such outstanding organizations.” Overall, the $56.8 billion bill funds several key areas either not addressed or underfunded by the President’s budget, including state and local law enforcement crime prevention grants and climate change research. The bill also rejects the President’s $149 million cut to economic development assistance programs, and restores funding to $250 million, $1 million above its FY 2008 level – an important allocation that will spur economic growth in the midst of an ailing economy. The full House of Representatives will consider the bill next month. For a full summary of the bill, please see the House Appropriations Committee’s website. The following Second District projects were included in the FY 2009 Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations bill approved yesterday by the House Appropriations Committee: • Clarence and Maxine Owens Foundation - Bainbridge, GA - Outreach Services of Southwest Georgia - After school program for at risk youth. - $75,000 • Calhoun County Family Connection - Edison, GA – To provide an opportunity for a new program to partner "at-risk" youth with senior citizens - $75,000 • SOWEGA CASA, Inc.- Americus, GA - For the expansion of volunteer base though the recruitment, training, and retention of volunteers to tutor and mentor youth in a part of rural Southwest Georgia with extremely limited resources and an especially high population of deprivation of neglected children - $75,000 • Twin Cedars Youth Services, Columbus, GA – To provide a safe haven for orphaned and needy children, including residential treatment for girls who have or are at risk of being sexually abused. - $75,000 • Graduation Kitchen Table Workshop/Crawford County Family Connection - Roberta, GA - At risk youth after school program - DOJ/JJ - $75,000 • City of Albany, GA – Totally Teen Zone – At risk, gang prevention and after school program. - $75,000 • Dooly County Community Enrichment Coalition/Family Connection – Vienna, GA - To provide operational funds for Dooly County Family Resource Center, targeting at-risk youth. - $75,000 • Terrell County Family Connection – Dawson, GA – Funding for the Mothers on Mission for Success program which aims to build character through a variety of activities including: tutorial (monitoring academics) assistance; addressing parent/child conflict resolution, alcohol, tobacco, and other substance abuse, self esteem building, career development, HIV/AIDS awareness, and gang prevention. - $75,000 • Pataula Center for Children, Inc. - Blakely, GA - Child Advocacy Center will provide a safe place for the evaluation of child sexual abuse or any case with the potential for prosecution. - $75,000 • Chattahoochee County Family Connection – Cusseta, GA – Funding for support of their at-risk youth after-school program. - $75,000 • Albany Area YMCA - Albany, GA – Support for youth programs and activities, targeted to at-risk youth.- $75,000 • City of Marshallville, GA - After-school and summer youth development program designed to develop positive self-esteem and job readiness skills for youth between ages 16-24. - $75,000 • Muscogee County Marshal's Office, Columbus, GA – Funding is requested for the Junior Marshal Program, a mentoring program organized and sponsored by a local law enforcement agency and designed to assist students in the areas of attitude, behavior, discipline and community service. - $75,000 • Talbot County Family Connection - Talbotton, GA – Funding will provide academic and cultural after school programs which will support approximately 150 at-risk rural high school students. - $75,000 • Kenneth B. Walker Residential Home, Columbus, GA .- To provide a safe haven for at-risk teenage males who have suffered from child abuse and neglect, as well as those released from a juvenile detention facility. – $50,000 • City of Arlington, GA - Youth After School Program - Support for recreational activities for at-risk youth after school. - $75,000 • Urban League of Greater Columbus, GA - Youth advocacy, education, employment, and mentoring for at-risk youth. –$50,000
06.01.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sanford Bishop announced today that the House Appropriations Committee has approved funding for four organizations focused on improving economic conditions in Southwest Georgia. Bishop, who as a member of the powerful House Appropriations Committee helped secure the funding, said the provisions were wrapped into the FY 2009 Financial Services and General Government Appropriations bill. “In times like these, we must do everything possible to jumpstart economic activity,” said Bishop. “And that means encouraging initiatives that work from the top-down as well as the bottom-up.” Slated to gain funding are Blessings Ministry’s Community Development Corporation of Monroe ($50,000), the Lower Chattahoochee Regional Development Center Rural Small Business Initiative ($75,000), Heritage Foundation Inc. of Thomasville ($75,000), and the University of Georgia ($50,000). Overall, the FY 2009 Financial Services and General Government Appropriations bill approved $22.4 billion for the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), the Small Business Administration (SBA), the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) and several other agencies. With the country facing tough economic times, the bill invests in economic development programs for disadvantaged communities and provides record loans to small businesses. To protect consumers from dangerous products like toys with lead, the bill provides a substantial increase to the CPSC for the second year in a row. The bill also helps states upgrade voting equipment to meet the requirements of the Help America Vote Act. The bill will be considered by the full House of Representatives next month. For a complete summary of the bill, please visit the House Appropriations Committee's website. The following Second District projects were included in the FY 2009 Financial Services and General Government Appropriations bill approved today by the House Appropriations Committee: • Blessings Ministry’s Community Development Corp. - Monroe, GA - $50,000 • Heritage Foundation Inc. - Thomasville, GA - $75,000 • Lower Chattahoochee Regional Development Center SWGA Rural Small Business Initiative - Columbus, GA - $75,000 • UGA – Public Service and Outreach (SWGA Poverty Project) - Athens/Albany, GA - $50,000
05.01.2008	Washington, D.C. Congressman Sanford Bishop today released the following statement on the House - Senate conference committee agreement on the Farm bill: “Through months of veto threats and game playing by the White House, the Farm bill conference committee members managed to stand their ground and craft a bipartisan agreement on this bill. “This conference agreement provides an adequate safety net for our farmers and guarantees an affordable and nutritious food supply for the youngest and most vulnerable among us – all in a fiscally responsible way. I am especially pleased that the peanut rotation program, which we paved the way for in the House bill last summer, and which will encourage a cleaner, greener method of planting, made its way into the conference agreement “I sincerely hope the President will reconsider his most recent threats to veto this Farm bill, which represents so many long hours of work and deliberation by Congress, and holds such tremendous implications for rural America.”
05.01.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sanford Bishop yesterday backed a bipartisan Farm bill that invests in improved nutrition, conservation, renewable energy and farm programs. “This bill will help producers of all commodities stay on the land they hold and love, and encourage conservation of natural resources and land for use by future generations,” said Congressman Bishop. “Many of the needs of Southwest Georgia are addressed by this bill. The peanut rotation program, which we paved the way for in the House bill last summer, will bring peanut growers into the next generation of agriculture by encouraging a cleaner, greener method of planting while ensuring an affordable and accessible supply to the markets that rely on U.S.-grown peanuts.” Struggling farmers will receive much needed aid from the legislation. The Farm bill also reforms disaster assistance to make it a permanent, paid for program for farmers with crops stricken by natural disasters such as drought and flood. Nearly three-fourths of the Farm bill will support nutrition programs that help 38 million American families afford healthy food. The legislation also boosts conservation programs that reduce soil erosion, enhance water supplies, improve water and air quality, and reduce damage caused by floods and other natural disasters. Under the bill, farmers will play a greater role in fueling our energy independence. The Farm bill invests $1 billion in renewable energy focusing on new technologies and new sources. It takes another critical step in transitioning biofuels beyond corn to non-food crops and sources such as switchgrass, woodchips and corn stalks. Despite the reforms to farm programs within the bill and the critical programs funded by this long-worked for legislation, President Bush has threatened a veto. “This bill represents meaningful compromise on behalf of the lawmakers to whom this legislation is most important, meets the White House demands by more than half way, and means billions of dollars to not just rural America, but to people living in every corner of this country,” said Congressman Bishop. “If we can spend billions of dollars fighting a war and rebuilding another country – including supporting that country’s land use and agriculture programs – I think we ought to be able to find it within our means here in Congress to support American agriculture.” The following is a summary of the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008: The conference report on the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008 makes historic investments in our food and farm economy. The bill will expand food security programs, protect our vital natural resources, promote healthier foods and local food networks, and reform commodity and biofuel programs to reflect the priorities of the nation. Ensuring Food Security • Nutrition programs increased by $10.361 billion with appropriate benefit increases that are indexed to the cost of living • Vital assistance to food banks increased by $1.25 billion • New funding boosts organic agriculture, fruit and vegetable programs, and local food networks • Country-of-origin labeling for meat and produce made mandatory Promoting Homegrown Renewable Energy • Provides $1.1 billion to fund programs that will help the renewable energy industry invest in new technologies that use a variety of sources beyond feed grains. • Corn ethanol tax credit reduced and redirected to incentives for cellulosic ethanol • Creates a loan guarantee program and a program to encourage and develop production of dedicated energy crops • Bioenergy research increased and renewable energy programs expanded Reforming Farm Programs • Farm program safety net extended and modernized, with an updated adjusted gross income means test for commodity programs • Farm and conservation program transparency increased, with direct attribution of payments and the ending of practices that result in multiple payment eligibility • Crop insurance reformed to prevent windfall reimbursements to crop insurance companies • Budgeted standing disaster assistance program for crops stricken by catastrophic natural disasters such as drought and flood Protecting the Environment • Conservation program spending increased by $7.9 billion • Doubles funding for the Farm Protection Program to protect agricultural lands from urban and suburban development pressure • Increases funding for the Environmental Quality Incentives Program and Conservation Stewardship Program to enhance and protect our natural resources • Continues funding for Grassland Reserve and Wetlands Reserve programs • Creates an Open Fields Program to encourage public access to private land for hunting and fishing as well as a Chesapeake Bay program to help restore and protect the Bay watershed Strengthening International Food Aid • Provides $60 million to purchase food overseas to feed people in need on top of the existing Food for Peace international aid program, along with an evaluation of this change and its effect on U.S. response times • Reauthorizes the McGovern-Dole International Food for Education and Child Nutrition Program for infant, child, and school nutrition programs in underdeveloped countries and provides an infusion of $84 million in additional funding For a complete overview of the bill please visit: https://agriculture.house.gov/inside/FarmBill.html
05.01.2008	Washington, D.C. Congressman Sanford Bishop today announced that the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations bill, which was taken up today in the U.S. House of Representatives, provides $350 million to replace Martin Army Community Hospital (MACH) at Fort Benning. Part of a $1 billion provision to rebuild and address critical infrastructure needs at two other aging military hospitals, the funding will prevent the types of problems that surfaced at Walter Reed Army Medical Center last year. “We owe it to our soldiers, our veterans, and their families to provide access to a modern medical facility that is not susceptible to water shut-offs, power outages or drainage problems, and that ensures patients’ rooms stay cool in the summer and warm in the winter,” said Congressman Bishop. “A few of our military hospitals, including Martin at Fort Benning, are simply just too old to provide the modern, state-of-the-art infrastructure necessary for high-quality medical care.” MACH was constructed in 1957 and is one of the oldest in the Army Medical Department inventory. The Army has identified MACH as the top priority hospital replacement project in the United States due to its age and its future requirements as Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) and Global Rebasing operations move forward. The Army estimates that, eventually, up to 100,000 soldiers, military trainees, retirees, civilians, and their families will be eligible to use the new hospital. “Congressman Bishop recognized the need to improve conditions at Martin Army Hospital and brought it to the attention of the committee,” said Congressman Chet Edwards, Chairman of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans Affairs. “It was a privilege to work with Congressman Bishop and the other members of the committee to make sure our military families have access to first class medical facilities capable of meeting the requirements of the current mission.” In recent years, the services have identified billions of dollars in recapitalization requirements for which current budgetary allotments are insufficient, but which desperately need funding due to the condition of the facilities. The funding problems will be exacerbated in the immediate future as installations like Fort Benning add thousands of personnel, dependent families, and departments due to BRAC, and as more wounded soldiers return from service in Iraq and Afghanistan. The allocations for military medical facilities in the Emergency Supplemental will relieve some pressure on the backlog of projects needing funding. The Emergency Supplemental was taken up as three amendments. The first amendment, which would have provided $162.5 billion for the Department of Defense to fund the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, did not pass. The other two amendments, which set Iraq policy restrictions and provided funding for domestic emergencies, passed. The third amendment included funding for MACH, as well as funding for a 21st Century GI bill for veterans, levees on the Gulf Coast, and emergency unemployment compensation for workers affected by the weakening economy. The provisions which passed must be agreed to by the full Senate before they can be sent to the President to be signed into law.
05.01.2008	Encourages experienced service members to join the Selected Reserves by providing 180 days of free health coverage Washington, D.C. Congressman Sanford Bishop (D-GA) announced today that the U.S. House of Representatives approved his amendment to H.R. 5658, the Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009, to provide 180 days of transitional health care for soldiers in the United States Military who choose to voluntarily separate from active duty and join the Selected Reserves (SELRES). The Defense Authorization bill overwhelmingly passed the House last night by a vote of 383-26. “The brave men and women who join the ranks of our military deserve every consideration upon their release from active duty. Transitional health coverage would provide a great deal of comfort to members and their families as they move to civilian life,” said Congressman Bishop. Currently, when an active duty service member retires or is involuntarily separated from the military service, he or she is afforded 180 days of transitional health care at no cost. Conversely, those service members who have served honorably and simply leave active duty at the end of their contractual agreement are not afforded transitional health care – even if they have agreed to continue serving in the Selected Reserves. The 180 days of transitional health care will allow the separating service members health care coverage as they return to the civilian work force or continue their education. With the potential to retain 13,000 additional trained Soldiers, Sailors, Marines or Airmen for the reserve forces, the legislation could save Guard and Ready Reserves significant retraining costs as well as provide them with more highly trained personnel to fight the Global War on Terror. The legislation also provides service members’ families with health care coverage. “Without the right incentives to retain trained and experienced Guard and Reserves forces, we will face greater challenges keeping the threat of terrorism at bay. We must retain these highly skilled men and women in the interest of national security,” Congressman Bishop said. The legislation is supported by the National Guard Army/Air, the Army Reserve, the Navy Reserve, the Marine Corps Reserve, the Air Force Reserve, and the Coast Guard Reserve.
04.01.2008	Washington, D.C. – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed HJ Res 70, honoring the 100th Anniversary of the Army Reserve, which will be formally celebrated on April 23. Congressman Sanford Bishop, the legislation’s lead sponsor, introduced the resolution in December with Representatives Steve Buyer (R-IN), Gene Taylor (D-MS), John Shimkus (R-IL), and 230 original co-sponsors, more than half the current membership in the U.S. House of Representatives. Upon passage, the resolution had more than 260 co-sponsors. “As we celebrate and honor the 100th anniversary of the U.S. Army Reserve, we are reminded of the integral role our reservists have played in the safety and security of our nation, and praise them for the distinction with which they serve today,” House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said. “I commend and thank Congressman Bishop for his service in the Reserve, as well as for the support he has shown to our brave men and women, not only on this momentous anniversary, but each and every day.” Speaking on the resolution on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives, Bishop remarked, “The outpouring of bipartisan support that this resolution has received is indicative of the high regard in which the Army Reserve is held among Members of Congress and the American public. Our reserve soldiers truly are ‘twice the citizen.’” The Army Reserve was created by Congress on April 23, 1908, to support the Active Army in times of national crisis. Initially, it included 360 medical professionals but over the past century the scope and size of the Army Reserve has grown. Today, more than 190,000 Army Reserve Soldiers provide support to the Army with skills they acquire from both military and civilian training and experiences. Throughout the past century, the Army Reserve has played an important role in each of our nation's major conflicts, including World Wars I and II, the Korean conflict, the Vietnam conflict, the Gulf War, as well as peacekeeping and humanitarian relief missions. Since September 11, 2001, the Army Reserve has mobilized more than 192,000 Soldiers in support of the Global War on Terror, as well. “For our first 100 years, we were called Citizen Soldiers. Now, we are Warrior Citizens, because we are an integral part of the Army – part of the operational force. We are warriors for our Nation, and we are also citizens who willingly put our lives on hold – leave our Families and our jobs – to defend our Nation. We are citizens who willingly lay down our plows and pick up our rifles when called upon,” said Lt. Gen. Jack C. Stultz, Chief, Army Reserve, and Commanding General, U.S. Army Reserve Command. The Army Reserve's 100th Anniversary commemoration will be celebrated in Washington, D.C. on April 23, 2008, and will include the enlistment of 100 Army Reserve Soldiers in Washington D.C. as well as local events at Army Reserve units around the country over the next year.
04.01.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C.—The United States Chamber of Commerce today presented Representative Sanford Bishop, Jr. (D-GA-02) with its prestigious Spirit of Enterprise Award for his support of pro-growth legislation during the second session of the 110th Congress. “Representative Bishop has proven to be an effective ally to the business community, supporting legislation that helps grow the economy and creates new jobs for hardworking Americans,” said Tom Donohue, Chamber president and CEO. “The Chamber is grateful for Sanford’s commitment to these important issues and is proud to present him with this award.” “I am proud to have earned this award from the Chamber once again,” said Representative Bishop, who has been honored with the Chamber’s Spirit of Enterprise Award each year since 2004. “I pledge to continue doing my dead-level best to support legislation that creates jobs and economic opportunities for Southwest Georgians.” The Chamber’s prestigious Spirit of Enterprise Award is given annually to members of Congress based on rankings it gives for key business votes outlined in its yearly publication How They Voted. These designated key votes are recorded floor votes on issues established as priorities on which the Chamber communicates its position prior to the vote. Those members of Congress who support the Chamber’s position on at least 70% of those votes receive the award. The Chamber key-voted 11 Senate and 20 House votes in 2007, including a trade promotion agreement with Peru, an extension of the Andean Trade Preference Act, an extension of the federal backstop for terrorism risk insurance, revisions to the rules of governing direct foreign investment, and critical water resources legislation to facilitate commerce at the nation’s waterways and ports. To view a complete list of the 2007 Spirit of Enterprise recipients visit www.uschamber.com/soe. The U.S. Chamber is the world’s largest business federation representing more than 3 million businesses of every size, sector, and region.
04.01.2008	Washington, D.C. – The U.S. House of Representatives marked Tax Day 2008 by passing the Taxpayer Assistance and Simplification Act of 2008, legislation designed to help make the tax code easier to understand, level the playing field for middle class families, and stop taxpayer harassment by ending the private collection of federal taxes. “Too many Americans dread tax day simply because our tax code is such an onerous and complicated document,” said Congressman Bishop. “This bill simplifies the process and eliminates wasteful spending by ending the private collection of taxes.” This week the Washington Post reported that the IRS’ contracts with privately-owned entities that collect taxes cost the IRS $37 million more than it generates. The Taxpayer Assistance and Simplification Act also includes measures to make the tax code easier to use and understand. Currently, the tax code contains more than seven hundred provisions affecting individuals and more than fifteen hundred affecting businesses – a total of more than 1.4 million words. The confusing tax code costs taxpayers more than $1 billion annually because taxpayers make the wrong decisions on tax forms. The bill passed today strengthens IRS outreach and assistance efforts to help ensure taxpayers know they are entitled to tax refunds or to payments under the Earned Income Tax Credit.
03.01.2008	Washington, D.C. Congressman Sanford Bishop, Representative for Georgia’s Second Congressional District, today announced that Open Arms, Inc. of Albany is the recipient of a $199,850 grant from the United States Department of Health and Human Services. Open Arms will invest the funding in its Transitional Living Program, which provides safe and stable housing for youth ages 16-21 who are runaways or homeless. “Open Arms not only gives shelter to these youth, but puts them back on track toward leading normal, productive, adult lives,” said Congressman Bishop. “We will see this investment returned to the community many times over.” Through a variety of structured services, Open Arms encourages youth to assume greater responsibility for their transition, achieve self-sufficiency, and avoid long term dependency on social services. This includes signing behavior contracts, finding employment, paying rent, and maintaining a household. Services are also offered to pregnant and parenting youth. "The best way to change tomorrow is to start with the youth of today,” said Rosalynn Fowler, spokeswoman for Open Arms. Founded in 1991, Open Arms has expanded to include six other programs that broaden the availability of life altering programs which provide protection, prevention, advocacy or support for children. For more information, contact (229) 431-1121.
03.01.2008	Washington, D.C. Congressman Sanford Bishop, Representative for Georgia’s Second Congressional District, today announced that Communities in Schools (CIS), Albany/ Dougherty, Inc., a dropout prevention organization, will receive a $199,544 grant from the United States Department of Education. “Georgia’s high school graduation rate hit an all-time high in recent years, and there’s no doubt that organizations like CIS have been instrumental in this achievement,” said Congressman Bishop. CIS provides students with one-on-one mentoring to help them mature in their personal and social responsibilities, increase participation in education, refrain from using drugs and alcohol, and curb violent behavior, including gang activity. Lynn Borders, CIS Executive Director, reports, “We greatly appreciate and are so excited with the Department of Education's selection of Communities In Schools of Albany/Dougherty as a recipient of this funding. It acknowledges our organization's growth and service to students, and further pays tribute to our many community members who entrust us with their personal contributions, to use them responsibly, and in ways that will help our students to succeed in school and in life.” CIS Albany/ Dougherty, an accredited affiliate of Communities In Schools of Georgia, as well as the 30-year-old CIS National, was established in Dougherty County in 1995. The mission of Communities In Schools (CIS) is “to champion the connection of community resources with schools to help young people successfully learn, stay in school and prepare for life.” For more information about CIS Albany/ Dougherty, contact (229) 888-2664.
03.01.2008	Washington, D.C. Yesterday, the U.S. House of Representatives agreed to extend until April 18, 2008 the current farm policy pending negotiations of a new Farm bill. This follows two prior extensions of the 2002 Farm bill which was meant to expire on September 30, 2007. Current negotiations between the House and Senate have slowed amid veto threats from the White House regarding from where extra spending in the bill should come. Congressman Sanford Bishop, Representative of Georgia’s Second Congressional District, issued the following statement on the latest extension: “As the spring planting season begins, I am not pleased to vote for the third time to extend the 2002 farm bill. Last summer, the House Agriculture Committee and farm state legislators, including myself, worked tirelessly and quickly to draw up and pass comprehensive farm legislation. While the Senate’s protracted negotiations over the Farm bill last fall were disappointing, I am even more disappointed with the White House’s game playing on a bill worth $280 billion dollars to rural America.” “Hopefully, this time next month, we will not be voting on another extension, but a new Farm bill.”
03.01.2008	Washington, D.C. Congressman Sanford Bishop (D-GA), along with Congressmen Steve Buyer (R-IN), Gene Taylor (D-MS), and Jeff Miller (R-FL), recently introduced HR 5609, a bill to provide 180 days of transitional health care for soldiers in the United States Military who choose to voluntarily separate from active duty and join the Selected Reserves (SELRES). “The brave men and women who join the ranks of our proud military deserve every consideration upon their release from active duty. Transitional health coverage would provide a great deal of comfort to members and their families as they move to civilian life,” said Congressman Bishop. Currently, when an active duty service member is involuntarily separated from the Army, he or she is afforded 180 days of transitional health care at no cost. Conversely, service members who have served honorably and leave active duty at the end of their contractual agreement with the Armed Services are not afforded free transitional health care. These service members represent a trained pool of military talent available to serve our Army in a different capacity, and the bill introduced by Congressman Bishop provides an incentive for them to continue serving our country. “Without dedicated and experienced Guard and Reserves forces, it is impossible to keep the threat of terrorism at bay. Retaining these highly skilled men and women is paramount in maintaining our nation’s security. We need to provide our service members an incentive to continue serving.” If passed, the legislation would provide 180 days of transitional health care to service members who leave active duty at the end of their contractual agreement and enter the SELRES. Transitional health care would also be provided to service members’ immediate families. By encouraging the retaining of skilled service members in the SELRES, the bill aims to bolster our Armed Forces in fighting the War on Terror, provide long-term savings in training costs, and allow separating service members a measure of comfort knowing their families will have health care coverage. After its introduction, HR 5609 was referred to the House Committee on Armed Services.
02.01.2008	Washington, D.C. Congressman Sanford Bishop today released the following statement on the President’s budget: “It’s incredible to me that despite the tremendous cost of the President’s budget– which tops $3 trillion for the first time ever – it manages to eliminate funding where it’s most needed. The President wants to deny health care for the youngest and most vulnerable among us, eliminate HOPE VI funding and Community Services Block Grants, and cut heating assistance for the poor, just as the price of oil tops $3 a gallon. While I share the President’s goal of bringing the budget into balance, he shouldn’t do it on the backs of the nation’s poorest and most vulnerable citizens.” “Furthermore, the President’s budget fails to address true budgetary concerns by not providing a permanent fix to the alternative minimum tax and failing to fully account for the cost of the war. Treating the war as an ‘unexpected cost’ doesn’t make sense at this juncture. We’re going to ensure our troops have every dollar they need to fight this war, but after 6 years, we know what this war costs - $10 billion a month. Not accounting for that is fiscally irresponsible and gives President Bush cover for more off-budget spending to drive up the deficit.” “Of course, despite these concerns, I have confidence in the Democratic leadership to work with the minority to craft a budget that works for all the people of America, including the Second District. I pledge to work with my colleagues to reach an agreement that helps people with health care, jobs, housing, and keeping our communities safe.”
02.01.2008	Washington, D.C. Yesterday, the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia voided a 2003 agreement between the state of Georgia and the Army Corps of Engineers which allowed the state 65% more water out of Lake Lanier for use in metro Atlanta. The three-judge panel voided the agreement because the Corps did not have Congressional approval which, under federal law, first must be obtained for changes in the management of federal reservoirs. Congressman Sanford Bishop, Representative from Georgia’s Second Congressional District, released the following statement in response to the ruling: “With a hastily adopted water plan passed by the General Assembly last week, the ongoing negotiations between Georgia, Florida, and Alabama, and a persistent, damaging drought, the Court’s ruling is timely. Lake Lanier not only provides drinking water to north Georgia, but provides downstream flows for myriad purposes to a large portion of the rest of the state. Downstream Georgia communities have similar concerns to Alabama and Florida – and deserve to be heard amid the din of their seemingly loud and greedy upstream neighbors. The Congressional approval requirement will at least ensure all interests are heard.” “Hopefully, downstream Georgia communities from West Point Lake to Lake Seminole will not have their needs trampled without due consideration in a stampede to protect unrestricted and unplanned growth in water use of the northern part of the state.”
01.01.2008	Washington, D.C. Congressman Sanford Bishop, Representative of Georgia’s Second Congressional District, today voted in favor of the HOPE VI Improvement and Reauthorization Act of 2007 which will revitalize distressed community housing through an $800 million-per-year investment over the next eight years. Since HOPE VI’s inception in 1992, every government dollar has leveraged at least two private sector dollars and has helped transform and revitalize 237 communities across the country. “We have had resounding success with the HOPE VI program in Georgia’s Second Congressional District,” said Congressman Bishop. “The program is much more than just ‘bricks and mortar.’ By engaging a range of private and public sector entities within the community, HOPE VI grants play a vital role in improving housing and bringing increased opportunities in job training, employment, and education.” The Housing Authority of Columbus was awarded a $20 million HOPE VI grant in 2002 to revitalize 510 units of severely distressed public housing units. Out of the project emerged Ashley Station, a new mixed-income community that also brought new parks, new retail outlets, and street improvements to the community. Each year since 2003, President Bush has removed HOPE VI from his budget and Congress has restored its funding. As a member of the House Appropriations Committee, Congressman Bishop consistently has advocated to restore and increase funds to the HOPE VI program. In addition to reauthorization of HOPE VI, the bill makes significant improvements to the program to ensure its longevity such as requiring full replacement for lost units, increasing involvement of residents in planning the redevelopment, and mandating compliance with green building standards. The bill must now be taken up by the Senate.
01.01.2008	Washington, D.C. Congressman Sanford Bishop today announced he is an original co-sponsor of the Beginning Farmers and Ranchers Act. The legislation, which was introduced yesterday in the U.S. House of Representatives, seeks to ensure a strong agricultural economy in future generations by preserving agricultural acreage across the country and making it easier for young farmers and ranchers to own land. “In Southwest Georgia, the average age of a farmer is 56 years old. We’re going to see many of these producers retire in the next few years, but with fuel, fertilizer, and land prices on the rise, it has become increasingly more difficult for beginning farmers to get a start,” said Congressman Bishop. “This legislation will help usher in a new generation of producers and ensure the stability of America’s rural economies.” The Beginning Farmers and Ranchers Act would provide: • A 100% exemption from capital gains taxes for those who sell their farm or ranch to a qualified beginning producer. This full exemption helps level the playing field for younger producers, who must often compete against large, established producers, as well as developers who can afford to offer higher prices for land. (The capital gains exemption may not exceed $500,000 per year.) • A 50% exemption for those who sell their farm or ranch to any producer who keeps the acres in agricultural production. This provision helps ensure adequate agricultural production at a time when landowners are pressured to sell their land for purposes other than agriculture. • A 25% exemption for anyone selling a farm or ranch, regardless to whom they sell or for what purpose. This provision gives land-owning farmers and ranchers parity with homeowners, who were granted substantial capital gains tax relief in 1997 for the sale of their homes.
01.01.2008	Washington, D.C. Congressman Sanford Bishop released the following statement in response to the President’s State of the Union address: “I’m pleased that President Bush is following the example Congressional Democrats set last year by urging action on issues like health care, energy, education, and caring for our nation’s veterans. However, given the President’s track record on implementing his own policy initiatives, I am hesitant to endorse any of these plans outright. I do believe the President and the bi-partisan Congressional leadership have crafted a good plan to jump start the economy. Action is needed to lighten the financial burden faced by Americans and this timely, targeted, and temporary package will provide some relief. The President also spoke tonight about reforming the appropriations process. While that is a worthy goal, it is – again – not original. Already in 2007, Democrats instituted unprecedented accountability and disclosure in the appropriations process. We also slashed the amount of earmarks in Appropriations bills by 43%. Speaking as a member of the Appropriations Committee, I believe the process could be more transparent. But the current process also allows a unique opportunity for elected representatives to bring home just a fraction of the tax dollars sent to Washington for projects that cannot be funded at the state or local level. To me, it makes no sense to take this power away from representatives elected by the people of Georgia and give it to a nameless, faceless, Washington agency bureaucrat who probably couldn’t find the Second Congressional District on a map. I believe other Members – Republicans and Democrats alike – share this point of view and there will be ample opportunity to voice it moving forward. On Iraq, though the surge is reducing violence, political progress must be achieved in order for the strategy to have a truly meaningful outcome. The Prime Minister must lead his government to action on the oil revenue sharing law, get agreement on power sharing between the national government and the provinces, and provide for potable water and electricity and a trained Iraqi security force. Lacking those accomplishments, the military success of the surge will be a wasted opportunity. Ultimately, the proof is in the pudding: when the President releases his budget during the first week in February, we will truly have a better grasp of the policies laid out this evening. In the meantime, I look forward to getting down to business and stand ready to work with my Congressional colleagues on both sides of the aisle on this ambitious agenda.”
01.01.2008	Washington, D.C. Congressman Sanford Bishop, Representative of Georgia’s Second Congressional District, today announced that the Federal Home Loan Bank of Atlanta recently awarded $360,000 to Pepper Ridge Too, an affordable housing unit in Fort Gaines, Georgia through the Bank’s Affordable Housing Program (AHP). Southwest Georgia Development Corporation, in partnership with Regions Bank, will use the AHP funds to renovate the 36- unit development to replace water heaters, floors, drywall, appliances and other improvements. Pepper Ridge Too was originally built in 1982 through funding from the USDA Section 515 program. “The effects of this project will be felt beyond the walls of this development. Quality affordable housing rejuvenates and strengthens entire communities – businesses, schools, families, and churches will feel the positive reverberations of this project,” said Congressman Bishop. Since AHP’s inception in 1990, the Bank has awarded funding to support 231 projects in Georgia that created or rehabilitated 13,893 quality affordable housing units, including 34 projects affecting 1,145 units in the Second Congressional District. AHP is a component of the Bank’s affordable housing, economic development, and down-payment assistance initiatives. Through partnerships with member financial institutions and community developers, the Bank has committed more than $5 billion in loans and grants to make housing and economic development a priority throughout the South.
12.01.2007	Washington, D.C. – Representatives Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (D-GA) and Steve Buyer (R-IN), along with Representatives Gene Taylor (D-MS) and John Shimkus (R-IL), today introduced a resolution that commemorates the 100th Anniversary of the U.S. Army Reserve. The bipartisan resolution was introduced with over 230 original co-sponsors, more than half the current membership in the U.S. House of Representatives. “As a former Army reservist, I am very gratified by the outpouring of bipartisan support for this resolution,” Bishop said. “This resolution indicates the high regard in which the Army Reserve is held among Members of Congress and the American public. We dedicate this resolution to the memory of all Reserve soldiers who fought and died to defend our nation’s freedoms throughout our history and to the men and women who continue to serve our nation in the U.S. Army Reserve today.” “This resolution represents a great opportunity for Congress to recognize the incredible history of service, sacrifice, and accomplishment of the soldiers who have served in the Army Reserve since its inception. Through war and peace those men and women, citizen soldiers, have contributed so much, answering the nation’s call to ensure that liberty endures. I am proud to be counted among their ranks,” Buyer commented. "At a time when Reservists are meeting the needs of our country by serving in numerous capacities around the world, I am encouraged and pleased to cosponsor this resolution. As a Reservist myself, it is also an honor to be part of an organization that has served so ably for the past 100 years. It is also heartening that a majority of our colleagues are joining with us to cosponsor this resolution," said Shimkus. “In the past century, the Army Reserve has grown from a small contingent of 360 doctors of the Medical Reserve Corps to today’s modern force of over one million soldiers who comprise the Selected Reserve, Individual Ready Reserve and the Retired Reserve. Since September 11, 2001, 157,423 Army Reserve soldiers have been mobilized for Operation Noble Eagle, Operation Enduring Freedom and Operation Iraqi Freedom. This resolution is a fitting tribute that will honor all those who have served in United States Army Reserve for the past 100 years,” said Taylor. The Army Reserve was created by Congress on April 23, 1908, to support the Active Army in times of national crisis. Initially, it included 360 medical professionals but over the past century the scope and size of the Army Reserve has grown. Today, nearly 200,000 Army Reserve Soldiers provide support to the Army with skills they acquire from both military and civilian training and experiences. Throughout the past century, the Army Reserve has played an important role in each of our nation's major conflicts, including World Wars I and II, the Korean conflict, the Vietnam conflict, the Gulf War, as well as peacekeeping and humanitarian relief missions. Since September 11, 2001, the Army Reserve has mobilized over 170,000 Soldiers in support of the Global War on Terror as well. "Today’s Army Reserve is no longer a strategic reserve, instead it is an operational force and an integral part of the world’s greatest Army,” said Lt. Gen. Jack C. Stultz, Chief, Army Reserve. The Army Reserve's 100th Anniversary commemoration will be celebrated in Washington, D.C. on April 23, 2008, and will include the enlistment of 100 Army Reserve Soldiers in both Washington D.C. and Iraq as well as local events at Army Reserve units around the country over the next year.
11.01.2007	Washington, D.C. Today, the House of Representatives considered HR 3685, the Employment Non-Discrimination Act (ENDA), which prohibits employers from hiring, firing, altering compensation, segregating, classifying, or refusing to refer an employee based on that person's actual or perceived sexual orientation. The bill does not establish employment or membership quotas, and the bill’s provisions do not apply to the armed forces or religious organizations. Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr., who supported the legislation, gave the following remarks during debate on the bill: “Madame Chair: As one who has suffered the stigma and painful effects of state-enforced legal discrimination based on my race for the first 20 of my 60 years; and having spent all of my professional life as an attorney and elected official fighting to eradicate unlawful discrimination based on race, creed, color, religion, gender, age, disability or national origin; and based on my study and understanding of the life and teachings of Jesus Christ, I cannot condone discrimination in employment based on sexual orientation. The only appropriate consideration in employment should be the willingness and ability to perform the job. Sexual orientation, unless it absolutely affects job performance, is a private matter and should not be a basis for legal discrimination, with the possible exception of the armed services and religious organizations. Accordingly, and after prayerful consideration, I must therefore support HR 3685, the Employment Non-Discrimination Act.”
11.01.2007	Camp Arifjan, Kuwait - Congressman Sanford Bishop is spending the Thanksgiving holiday with U.S. Troops and support personnel at Camp Arifjan, Kuwait and Baghdad, Iraq. While there, Congressman Bishop is meeting with U.S. Ambassador to Iraq Ryan Crocker, Commander of Multi-National Forces David Petraeus, and Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri Al-Maliki, and spending time with soldiers, including some of Georgia's own. "These brave men and women represent the very best of our nation. And on this Thanksgiving weekend, we give thanks for their service and dedication and pray for their success and safety. Its humbling to spend my holiday with them."
10.01.2007	Washington, D.C. – Today on Capitol Hill, the Agriculture Subcommittee of the House Appropriations Committee, of which Congressman Sanford Bishop (D-Albany) is a member, heard testimony from representatives of the telecommunications industry, the federal government, and rural interest groups, including Marty McClendon, Chairman of the Flint River Soil and Water Conservation District from Leary, Georgia, on the lack of broadband access in rural America. The panelists testified on current impediments to expansion, such as market conditions and infrastructure requirements, as well as the effects of limited broadband access on our national security, education, health care, and the economy. “In the 21st century, lack of broadband access impacts the health, safety, welfare, and economic viability of our rural communities,” said Bishop. “Broadband is a basic service these days and we have an obligation to ensure its availability for everyone.” During his testimony, McClendon said, “Telecommunications technologies have advanced today to a level that allows rural communities for the first time to realize a true equal connection and competitiveness with the country’s urban economy. This has been demonstrated as more and more baby boomers return to rural communities, but they want their broadband so they can keep working. So the remaining barrier seems to be the infrastructure and cost of implementing a wide area broadband network.” The hearing also focused attention on RUS, or Rural Development Utilities Programs, which have been funded through the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) since the 1920s to bring modern utilities to rural America. Today, these programs include funding public-private partnerships to increase broadband access in rural America. However, public-private partnerships to extend broadband to rural areas still leave many communities underserved, particularly in Southwest Georgia. “USDA can and needs to do more, and I believe that sentiment was communicated today,” said Bishop. “Today’s hearing shed some light on the remaining difficulties affecting access and I am hopeful that Congress, along with USDA and the telecommunications industry, will continue to work together to bring affordable broadband access to every corner of our nation.”
10.01.2007	Washington, D.C. - Today, the U.S. House of Representatives voted upon legislation to reauthorize the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) and provide health care to 10 million children, including 470,000 Georgia children. The vote followed last week’s failed veto override of another version of the legislation. The latest version of the SCHIP measure still provides an additional $35 billion to the program over the next five years. However, it responds to House Republicans’ objections to the previous SCHIP legislation by capping income eligibility at 300% of poverty (or $62,000 annually for a family of four), shoring up provisions to prohibit illegal immigrants from enrolling in the program, and requiring that all childless adults be removed from SCHIP by December 31, 2008. The bill was approved by a vote of 265 to 142, and first must be considered by the Senate before it is sent to the President, who has said he intends to veto the legislation. Following the vote, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr., Representative of Georgia’s Second Congressional District and a supporter of the SCHIP reauthorization bill, released the following statement: “I am disappointed that the President is ignoring our good-faith efforts to respond to his concerns and continuing to disregard the needs of our children by threatening to veto this legislation. We have met many of his objections and are serious about getting this legislation passed. We are not going to stop until we can get coverage for 10 million children.”
09.01.2007	Washington, D.C. Congressman Sanford Bishop, Representative of Georgia’s Second Congressional District, today announced that the full House of Representatives passed the Flood Insurance Reform and Modernization Act of 2007. The legislation aims to help communities better prepare for and mitigate the effects of catastrophic flooding. “Communities in Southwest Georgia are well aware of the hardship imposed by catastrophic flooding. The Summer of 1994 remains fresh in the minds of many, and I am pleased to have been able to support legislation that will have a significant and positive impact should we be confronted with such a disaster in the future,” said Congressman Bishop. In addition to encouraging broader participation in flood insurance programs, the bill requires FEMA to conduct a thorough review of the nation’s flood maps, updates maximum insurance coverage limits for residential and nonresidential properties, and includes provisions to responsibly expand the National Flood Insurance Program to provide for an optional multiple peril policy – that is, to allow property owners to purchase wind and flood coverage in a single policy. The bill now must be taken up by the Senate.
08.01.2007	Washington, D.C. Congressman Sanford Bishop today announced that the full House of Representatives approved the fiscal year (FY) 2008 Agriculture Appropriations bill. The bill includes more than $11 million for research, conservation, housing, and rural programs throughout the 2nd Congressional District and Georgia. As a member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, Congressman Bishop helped craft the bill. “This bill comprehensively ensures the continued strength of our agricultural sector while addressing the growing need for research and development into alternative fuels, land conservation, and innovative ways to feed our nation’s most vulnerable," said Congressman Bishop. “I am also pleased the Committee chose to allocate funds to some critical research and development projects that specifically tackle the needs of Georgia agriculture." Several projects within the bill will directly benefit projects in the Second Congressional District, including funding to prevent the onset of chronic diseases and the growing problem of overweight children, find alternative methods of controlling pecan scab disease, and enhance the long-term sustainability of irrigated agricultural production and net returns. Overall, the FY 2008 bill refocuses funding on rural America. It provides significant increases to grant and loan programs for health care and educational facilities in rural areas, as well as distance learning and telemedicine grants. It also restores the broadband grant program to help rural areas with limited educational and medical resources and supports affordable housing loans for low and moderate-income families in rural areas. Other areas of focus include the Food Safety and Inspection Service within the USDA, investing in nutrition programs such as Women, Infants, and Children (WIC), and the Commodity Supplemental Food Program (CSFP). The bill also doubles funding for renewable energy loans and grants to businesses. The Agriculture Appropriations bill for FY 2008 provides $18.8 billion in discretionary spending for the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), and other related agencies, a $1 billion increase over FY 2007 and $987.4 million above the amount requested by the President. The bill must be reconciled with its Senate version in a conference committee later this year. For a full summary of the bill, please visit the Appropriations website: https://appropriations.house.gov/pdf/AgSummaryFC.pdf. Projects included in the Agricultural Appropriations bill: • Georgia Soil and Water Conservation Commission, Athens, GA—Provide cost-share funds to farmers to construct/renovate agricultural reservoirs and improve irrigation efficiency. $3,600,000 • The Peanut Institute, Albany, GA—Ongoing research between the Children’s Nutrition Research Center, which is examining ways to prevent the onset of chronic diseases and the growing problem of overweight children. $496,677 • National Peanut Research Lab, Dawson, GA —Agriculture water policy research. $882,000 • Georgia Pecan Growers Association, Byron, GA—The development of better adapted pecan varieties and rootstocks, improved insect and nematode pest management strategies that enable control of pests while reducing introduction of pesticides into the environment, and development of strategies and technologies that overcome alternate bearing varieties. $460,013 • Southeast Watershed Research Lab, Tifton, GA—Water resources research. $586,215 • National Peanut Research Laboratory, Dawson, GA—Peanut Research, Dawson. $131,799 • Georgia Pecan Growers Association, Byron, GA—Research for alternative methods of controlling pecan scab disease, a potentially devastating disease for pecan farmers. $603,409 • National Peanut Research Lab, Dawson, GA—Peanut production research. $74,250 • Southeast Watershed Research Lab, Tifton, GA—Water use management technology. $340,828 • Georgia Environmental Training and Education Authority, Albany, GA —Provide rural wastewater training to local municipalities and local officials. $346,500 • National Wild Turkey Federation —Operation Oak Program seeks the restoration of native hardwoods. $396,000 • The University of Georgia, College of Agricultural and Environmental Sciences—Research for Phytophthora capscici, a disease affecting growers of Cucurbit crops (melons, squash and cucumbers) and Solanaceous crops (peppers and tomatoes). $255,000 • The University of Georgia, College of Agricultural and Environmental Sciences—Cotton Insect Management and Fiber Quality Research. $489,000 • The University of Georgia, College of Agricultural and Environmental Sciences—an integrated approach for the vegetable industry in Georgia to protect crops from Phytophthora capsici. $253,000 • The University of Georgia, College of Agricultural and Environmental Sciences—Water Use Efficiency and water quality enhancements through advanced technologies. $489,000 • The University of Georgia, College of Agricultural and Environmental Sciences—Initiative to improve blueberry production efficiency and fruit quality. $300,000 • National Wild Turkey Federation—continued federal support to implement a strategic plan of outreach programs to benefit children, women, and disabled individuals by providing opportunities to learn or improve skills and to participate in outdoor recreational activities. $232,000 • Avian Pneumovirus/Asian Bird Influenza, Athens, GA-- $291,926 • Poultry Enteritis Mortality Syndrome, Athens, GA (PEMS),. $145,903 • National Peanut Research Laboratory, Dawson, GA —Enhancing Long-Term Sustainability of Irrigated Agricultural Production and Net Returns. $704,635 The bill directs the Rural Development Authority to give priority consideration to the following projects in FY 2008: • Southwest Georgia Rural Disaster Demonstration Project: Baker, Webster, Randolph, Crawford, Mitchell, Worth, Taylor, Clay, Stewart, Sumter Macon Counties. • Zion Hope Outreach Ministries, Inc.—To increase home ownership among underprivileged families in Sumter County, GA. • Georgia Soil and Water Conservation Commission—Provide for breach studies, inundation maps, and emergency action plan on high hazard dams in Georgia. • The Unified Government of Cusseta-Chattahoochee County, GA—In need of a well and water tank to provide service to existing customers expanding water needs and new customers.
08.01.2007	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Sanford Bishop, a member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense, announced that the full House of Representatives last night approved the fiscal year (FY) 2008 Defense Appropriations bill, which allocates $459 billion to the Department of Defense for the funding of our troops, including first class weapons, equipment, training, facilities, and health care services. This includes giving a pay raise to all military personnel, rejecting the President’s request to increase TRICARE co-pays, and fully funding the upgrade and purchase of equipment crucial to the continued security of our nation. Additionally, several key provisions of the bill’s language address improving oversight of government contractors, including allocating increased funding to the agencies that audit defense projects. “For the first time in several years, this bill takes a very hard look at the procurement practices of the DoD, and attempts to bring some sanity to a process that remains costly, but experiences lapses in departmental oversight. I believe this bill is not only a victory for our soldiers, but also our taxpayers, who for too long have had to shoulder these out-of-control defense costs," said Congressman Bishop. The bill also allocates $116 million to upgrade barracks, improve child-care facilities, and enhance community services at Fort Benning, and $2 million for such purposes related to Georgia’s National Guard. This funding is a part of a $1.2 billion provision within the bill to address the impact of rebasing activities as large numbers of service members are re-stationed to the continental United States from overseas, including from within Iraq and Afghanistan. “In the next few years, Fort Benning will experience a dramatic increase in the number of troops stationed there, and the funds for the base in this bill will help upgrade facilities in anticipation of meeting their needs." In addition, Congressman Bishop was successful in securing funding for a number of projects of benefit to the Second Congressional District and Georgia, including $7.5 million for the Fort Benning Soldier Center at Patriot Park, a $3 million Automatic Identification and Data Capture (AIDC) Solution Center to be located at the Marine Corps Logistics Center (MCLB) in Albany, and $2 million to help Phoebe Putney Hospital establish a Technical Regional Center of Excellence for sufferers of Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD). “Our military facilities in Southwest Georgia spur the economic engines both locally and regionally and represent hundreds of millions of dollars in investment, as well as thousands of jobs. As a member of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, I am pleased to have been able to have a hand in keeping this sector of the economy strong." The bill must be reconciled with the Senate version and considered by a Conference Committee before being sent to the President. For a full summary of the FY 2008 Defense Appropriations bill, please visit the Appropriations website: https://appropriations.house.gov/pdf/DefenseSummaryFC.pdf Other projects included in the bill of benefit to Georgia: • Funding for the construction of the Ft. Benning Soldier Center at Patriot Park. $7,500,000 • Automatic Identification and Data Capture (AIDC) Solution Center - To provide cost effective solutions to depot requirements in the areas of bar code, radio frequency identification (RFID), smart cards, serial number tracking (SNT), and unique identification of tangible items (UID), to be located at Marine Corps Logistics Command, Marine Corps Logistics Base, Albany. $3,500,000 • Technical Regional Center of Excellence for PTSD - Regional Center for Excellence (PTSD) - to understand the existing methods of training, diagnosis, treatment, and technological advances to define the most promising and effective treatment strategies for PTSD, Phoebe Putney Hospital, Albany. $2,000,000 • Recapturing the Army’s Training Ranges - Funding for the development of a pilot program for vegetation management and animal control; will assist in recapturing the Army's Training Ranges at Fort Benning and assist in meeting ongoing environmental requirements with respect to Red-Cockaded Woodpecker and vegetation management. $1,000,000 • Logistics Analysis and Optimization Center - to sponsor Logistics Analysis and Optimization efforts including Design and Prototype of IT enablers, for capabilities enhancement and to test solutions prior to infusing technology or replacing USMC logistics tools; to be conducted at the USMLC/ Albany. $1,500,000
08.01.2007	WASHINGTON, DC. Congressman Sanford Bishop today announced that he will be joining a congressional delegation of 14 House members, including the Speaker of the House, Nancy Pelosi, to the Gulf Coast region just prior to the two-year anniversary of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. The trip, which runs from August 12-14, will allow Democratic Members to return to a region they visited a year ago and assess the impact of the legislation they passed in the first stage of their new majority. “A Congressional Delegation traveled to the region last year to assess the status of recovery efforts and determine what needed to be done to speed up a lagging rebuilding process,” said Congressman Bishop. “In seven short months we have delivered on that promise. We appropriated over $6.4 billion for Gulf Coast recovery assistance and passed a provision to waive the local fund matching requirement under the Stafford Act, which will allow access to funding for thousands of rebuilding projects in the region that have been stalled for months.” “Additionally, with its low elevation, proximity to large bodies of water and temperate climate, the Second Congressional District is not immune from the kinds of disasters the Gulf Coast experienced two years ago,” continued Bishop. “I believe this trip is important not only to renew our nation’s commitment to the region, but to learn from our mistakes and be better prepared for the future.” The three-day trip will focus on the progress made and outstanding needs in the areas of education, housing, health care and infrastructure. In Louisiana, the lawmakers will hold a policy conference with local and state officials, visit the Lower 9th Ward, tour the St. Bernard Health Center, visit a New Orleans school, tour the New Orleans levee system, and visit the Sewerage and Water Board of New Orleans. In Mississippi, Members will tour the consolidated Pass Christian school system, visit a family living in a formaldehyde-laced FEMA trailer, take a windshield tour of Pass Christian and hold a town hall meeting in Bay St. Louis on insurance reform.
07.01.2007	Washington, D.C. Today, Congressman Sanford Bishop announced that the Appropriations Committee of the U.S. House of Representatives approved the fiscal year (FY) 2008 Energy and Water Appropriations bill, including provisions that will benefit two projects in the Second Congressional District of Georgia, the Fall Line Ecosystem Restoration Project on the Chattahoochee River and improving the City of Albany’s floodplain mapping system. Approximately $2,000,000 was approved for the Fall Line Ecosystem Restoration Project to remove two low-head dams, restore fish habitat for shoal bass and other species on a 2.3-mile stretch of the Chattahoochee River. By improving environmental quality on the river, this project also will help advance eco-tourism and economic development in the area. "This project demonstrates how economic development and environmental protection can go hand in hand, and I am pleased the House Appropriations Committee recognized this in approving this project," said Bishop. Additionally, the bill provides $250,000 for the City of Albany to update its floodplain mapping, inventory, and public service assistance programs to reflect recent changes in topography, population, and commercial growth. Albany, which has been adversely affected by flooding during the past 10 years, will be able to better serve, protect and accommodate future growth in both its population and economy through these improvements. Remarked Bishop, "As Albany grows, it is vitally important that investments in economic development are protected from natural disasters. Improving technology that allows the city to better plan for flooding, which has plagued the area in recent years, is crucial to that aim. I am pleased to have been able to help make it happen." Overall, the FY 2008 bill allocates $30.3 billion to the Department of Energy’s budget, which represents a $1.15 billion increase over FY 2007 levels and $480 million above the amount requested by President Bush. Much of the Committee’s bill re-focuses research and development (R&D) within the Energy Department to areas such as alternative fuels and nuclear non-proliferation. It also focuses funding for the Army Corps of Engineers on strengthening the nation’s navigational infrastructure and improving flood control programs. The bill is expected to be considered by the full House of Representatives next week. For a complete summary of the bill, please visit the House Appropriations website:
07.01.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. Today, Congressman Sanford Bishop, a Member of the House Appropriations Committee, announced that the fiscal year (FY) 2008 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations bill, which included $1,100,000 to fund several projects across the Second Congressional District, passed the full House of Representatives last night by a vote of 268-153. The $50.7 billion bill is $2.5 billion above FY 07 and $2.1 billion above the amount requested by President Bush. Congressman Bishop voted in favor of the bill. The bill funds at $450,000 each two road improvement projects in Donalsonville and Columbus. In Donalsonville, drainage problems at the intersection of US 84 and SR 39/91 will be improved to help motorist safety and, in Columbus, SR 982/ Talbotton Road between 7th and Hilton Aves. will be widened to meet traffic needs. The Appropriations bill also includes $200,000 for the SOWEGA Council on Aging in Albany for ongoing construction at its senior center. The House and Senate versions of the FY 2008 Transportation/ HUD bill will be considered by a conference committee sometime later this year.
07.01.2007	Washington, D.C. Congressman Sanford Bishop, a Member of the House Appropriations Committee, announced that the fiscal year (FY) 2008 Commerce, Justice, and Science Appropriations bill, passed last night by the full House of Representatives, included $1,000,000 for a number of critically important projects throughout the Second Congressional District of Georgia. The appropriations bill funds at $50.3 billion the Departments of Commerce and Justice, as well as the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) and related agencies. Notably, this year’s bill aims to help law enforcement at the state and local level by increasing State and Local Law Enforcement and Crime Prevention Grants to $334 million above FY 2007 levels. The boost in funding follows reports by the FBI that violent crime has been on the rise during 2005 and 2006. “I am glad to have been part of again helping out these organizations, many of which help at-risk youth by giving them a place to go after school and offering services otherwise not available to them, “ said Bishop. “Furthermore, I am very appreciative that the Committee recognized the need to restore funding for state and local law enforcement grants. Just as we support the needs of our military personnel abroad, it is equally important that we protect our interests here at home by funding local and federal law enforcement officials with the same level of commitment and passion.” The House and Senate versions of the Commerce, Justice and Science bill will be considered by a conference committee sometime later this year. Projects included in the bill are: • Liberty Theater, Columbus, GA – After school program for at-risk children ($250,000). • City of Lumpkin, Stewart County, GA - After school program for disadvantaged and at-risk children ($100,000). • Muscogee County Marshall's Office, Columbus, GA - The Junior Marshall Program is a mentoring program designed to assist students in the areas of attitude, behavior, and discipline ($125,000). • Building Toward Wellness Community Coalition, Inc., Columbus, GA - After school and summer tutorial program to promote the overall enhancement of higher order thinking skills of the program’s at risk youth participants ($100,000). • Amar Civic Club, Reynolds, GA - To provide tutoring and related after-school activities for high school students in Taylor County and surrounding counties ($25,000). • The City of Colquitt Police Department, Colquitt, GA - To install a 24-hour monitoring system capable of the constant recording of three highly occupied areas of the city ($50,000). • Dawson Public Safety Department, Dawson, GA - To continue the Youth Advocacy Program or CINC (Children Interested In Change) program, which is geared toward reducing drop-outs, juvenile crime, and building positive self-esteem in local youths ($25,000). • Urban League of Greater Columbus, Inc., Columbus, GA – Provides funding for a Youth Advocacy/ Education and Employment for early intervention/prevention activities to reduce the number of males/females who fall victim to negative influences and behaviors; provide opportunities to youth to enhance health, social, educational, and employment levels ($25,000). • Twin Cities Youth Services, Columbus, GA – To provide a safe haven for orphaned and needy children, including residential treatment for girls who have been sexually abused ($25,000). • James L. Barnes Community Development Center, Dawson, GA – To fund after school program for troubled and at-risk minority teens from low-income rural areas ($25,000). • Brooks County Board of Commissioners, Quitman, GA – To fund an after school recreational program for at-risk teenagers ($25,000). • Life Transformation Ministry, Inc., Americus, GA – Provides funding for at risk youth after school tutorial program ($25,000). • Communities in School of Decatur County, Bainbridge, GA – To rally community support and deliver resources and programs into schools to help youth learn, stay in school and prepare for life ($25,000). • A.J. McClung YMCA of Metro Columbus, Columbus, GA – To help students at Marshall Middle School to improve their academic and behavior in and out of school ($25,000). • Dooly County Family Resource Center, Vienna, GA - After school program. ($150,000).Louis on insurance reform.
07.01.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Through a concerted effort with representatives of the peanut industry, Congressmen Sanford Bishop (D-Georgia), Allen Boyd (D-North Florida), Jim Marshall (D-Georgia), and John Barrow (D-Georgia) today announced the inclusion of the new Peanut Environmental Resource Stewardship (PERS) Program in the 2007 Farm bill, which passed today in the U.S. House of Representatives. This program would help to enhance the peanut industry by providing the nation’s peanut growers with the support they need, while also working with them to improve production practices. Part of the “Green Payment” initiative, the PERS program would reward peanut producers for planting peanuts in a crop mix rotation while limiting the acreage that could be planted by producers to optimize the crop rotation of the land. The Farm bill allows the U.S. Secretary of Agriculture to provide an incentive payment for peanut producers who wish to participate in the 4-year crop rotation program. A 4-year rotation will promote better conservation practices, maximize yield potential, and diminish the use of artificially-derived fertilizers. “PERS will help to bring peanut growers into the next generation of agriculture by encouraging a cleaner, greener method of planting while ensuring an affordable and accessible supply to the markets that rely on U.S.-grown peanuts,” said Congressman Bishop. “Of course, this innovative solution could not have happened without the efforts of all of us who represent peanut-growing districts, and I am grateful to my colleagues for their diligent work and support.” “My friends from Georgia and I fought an uphill battle to get this program included in the Farm bill, and our hard work has paid off,” said Congressman Boyd. “As a fifth generation farmer, I understand the economic vulnerability of many of our agricultural producers, including our peanut producers. We must continue to work hard to strengthen the rural and farm economy of our nation.” “It was a long, hard fight, but I’m glad that, in the end, we were able to get at least the beginning of a fair deal for peanut producers in the House of Representatives’ version of the Farm bill,” said Congressman Marshall. “But there’s still a fight ahead of us. Now we have to rely on our Senators to increase the funding for the new green program – good for the environment and for farmers – that Reps. Bishop, Barrow, Boyd and myself helped to create.” “This last minute addition to the Farm bill will be a boost for peanut farmers across the Southeast,” Congressman Barrow said. “I appreciate Chairman Peterson’s willingness to work with us to find an alternative payment program for America’s peanut farmers.” “Georgia Peanut growers recognize that there will have to be changes in farm policy,” said Joe Boddiford, Screven County Peanut Producer and Vice-Chairman of the Georgia Peanut Commission. “We hope that the inclusion of green payments to producers will be a step in the right direction. We appreciate John Barrow and Sanford Bishop’s role in assuring that peanut policy is on track for the future of the industry.” “Florida's peanut farmers realize the amount of hard work that has gone into this Farm bill,” says Ken Barton, Executive Director of the Florida Peanut Producers Association. “We appreciate the dedicated efforts of Congressman Allen Boyd and his colleagues in the Southeast for supporting policy that is fiscally responsible and ensures future growth in the peanut industry.” Fully funded within the “pay-as-you-go” rules of the House of Representatives, the 2007 Farm bill includes $50 million over five years for the PERS Program. It is expected that $131 million is needed over five years for the program. “We are working with Senators Saxby Chambliss and Bill Nelson to include more funding in the Farm bill for this important peanut program,” Boyd stated. “I am hopeful that as the Farm bill moves forward in Congress, we can provide additional funding to sustain and support the PERS program. As I have said many times before, it is vitally important that we maintain a strong agricultural production industry—it’s not just an economic matter, but a national security issue as well.”
07.01.2007	Washington, D.C. Congressman Sanford Bishop today announced passage of the 2007 Farm bill, which includes vital investments in our nation’s family farmers, renewable energy, rural development, and our most vulnerable citizens. The bill provides a five-year reauthorization of the farm, rural development, conservation, and nutrition programs administered by the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) and is fully compliant with the “pay-as-you-go" rules instituted by the House of Representatives at the beginning of this year. “I am very pleased to support a piece of legislation which provides a strong safety net for small-scale and disadvantaged farmers as well as the millions of American citizens who live below the poverty line and are dependents on Federal nutrition assistance," said Congressman Bishop. “Also, I am particularly pleased that provisions within this bill improve the quality of life of people living in our rural communities by providing critical health care, emergency, and communications assistance to underserved areas." To fight hunger in America, the Farm bill expands nutrition programs that help 35 million low-income families by providing an additional $4 billion over the next five years. It also nearly doubles the funding for the Emergency Food Assistance Program so that food banks, soup kitchens, and other emergency feeding sites have adequate resources. The measure further extends the Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Snack Program to all 50 states. Additionally, and for the first time in the Farm bill, farmers in commodity programs have a choice between traditional price protections and a new market-oriented revenue coverage payment plan to ensure protection against significant crop losses. This includes addressing the needs of cotton, peanuts, soybeans, and other crops important to Southwest and Middle Georgia. Historic investments in conservation and improving the environment, such as $4.3 billion to preserve farm and ranch land, improve water quality and quantity, enhance soil conservation, air quality, and wildlife habitat on working land, as well as incentives for farmers to use “green" growing methods are also included in the bill. “With this legislation, we are making this country greener, cleaner, and healthier. We are also ensuring that this country’s $3.5 trillion agricultural industry remains robust and globally competitive." The Senate must now consider its version of the Farm bill, and then be reconciled with the House version in a Conference Committee before the final bill is sent to President Bush. For a complete summary of the 2007 Farm bill, please visit the House Agriculture Committee’s Farm bill homepage.
06.01.2007	Washington, D.C. Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. issued the following statement regarding the announcement by the judges of the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Georgia to cease holding federal court in Thomasville: “I wholeheartedly appreciate and understand the importance of keeping federal court in Thomasville to ensure that cases are tried locally and among the people of the community. Thomasville is a vibrant, growing city whose continued livelihood depends in part on accessibility to government and law enforcement services, such as those provided through a federal courthouse. Since being notified of this situation, we have been reaching out to all of the involved parties, including the office of Mayor Lewis and the judges. Moving forward, we will explore all of the available options with a view toward keeping this building open and allowing the federal court to remain in Thomasville.”
06.01.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. Today, the U.S. House of Representatives approved the fiscal year (FY) 2008 Military Construction, Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies Appropriations bill. The FY 2008 bill represents a $6.7 billion increase in the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) budget, the largest single increase in the 77-year history of the Veterans Administration and $3.8 billion above the president’s request. It also includes an $8.2 billion increase in the Department of Defense's military construction budget over FY 2007 levels and fully funds Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) above FY 2007 levels, a request which is expected to allow the completion of lingering BRAC-related construction projects at Fort Benning. Congressman Bishop, a member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, voted for the bill. "This funding is vital to maintaining and improving our military installations and meeting the demands of our military’s ever-expanding mission, including housing our troops and their families at bases both at home and abroad," said Congressman Bishop. "I was particularly gratified that the Committee chose to fully fund the President’s request for BRAC and add $207 million to his military construction request." Included in the report language, the Committee expressed concern about the impact of BRAC on local school districts, particularly those districts who would receive large influxes of students as a result of military families moving to the area. Specifically, the Committee directs the Department of Defense to work closely with local school districts and base commands to accurately project the increase in school-age population to help communities plan for necessary infrastructure and operating costs to minimize the impact on educational quality. Meanwhile, though this year’s bill provides an unprecedented amount of funding for the Veterans Administration, specific uses for the funding are at the discretion of the Department. Many members, including Congressman Bishop, have expressed that they hope the increased funds will address shortcomings within Veterans’ Health Care. While the bill was being discussed on the floor, Congressman Bishop, along with Congressman Jesse Jackson, Jr. (D-IL), and House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies Chairman Chet Edwards (D-TX), spoke out about growing numbers of HIV/AIDS cases among Veterans. "The prevalence of HIV/AIDS among veterans who access the VA health care system is markedly higher than that of the general population. Furthermore, barriers within this system contribute to already late diagnoses of HIV among veterans," said Congressman Bishop. "However, VA’s current HIV testing policy is based on an outdated testing model which is inconsistent with the CDC guidelines." Following today’s vote, the bill will be sent to the Senate for consideration. Military Construction: • The bill provides an unprecedented $21.4 billion for military construction, family housing, and BRAC. This is an increase of $207 million over the President’s request and $8.2 billion over FY 2007, which means better barracks, housing and training facilities when troops return from combat. • Fully funds the 2005 BRAC at $8.2 billion; supports the relocation of 70,000 troops from bases in Korea and Europe. • Provides funds to grow our military forces and begins the process of adding 65,000 Army, 27,000 Marine, and 9,000 National Guard and Reserve troops. Veterans Affairs: • Increases the VA budget by $6.7 billion above the FY 2007 level, the largest single increase in the 77 year history of the Veterans Administration and $3.8 billion above the President’s request for FY 2008. • For the first time, the total budget for VA medical accounts exceeds the Independent Budget prepared by veterans’ service organizations by $294 million. • Adds over 1,000 new claims processors to reduce the 400,000 claims backlog within the VA. • Increases funding to address the VA’s repair and maintenance needs to prevent a Walter Reed-type scandal from occurring in the VA system.
06.01.2007	Washington, D.C. Congressman Sanford D. Bishop Jr., a Member of the House Appropriations Committee, today announced that the House of Representatives approved the fiscal year (FY) 2008 Homeland Security Appropriations bill by a vote of 268 to 150. Congressman Bishop voted in favor of the bill. "As a former member of the Appropriations subcommittee on Homeland Security, I know first-hand the importance of this bill to the national security of our nation and our citizens. I am particularly pleased to see increases in previously under-funded areas such as border security and state and local emergency management," said Congressman Bishop. "Keeping this country safe and secure requires a commitment from the top-down and the bottom-up, with proper resources and attention given those communities and industries most vulnerable to attack or susceptible to natural disasters. I believe that is what we accomplished here today." The bill provides $36.3 billion for the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and related agencies for combating all threats against the homeland. This year’s committee-passed version of the bill provides 7% above the amount appropriated in 2007 and 5% above the amount requested by President Bush. Of particular focus in this year’s bill is language strengthening the country’s borders with 3,000 additional border patrol agents in 2008 and boosting the President’s request for the Customs and Border Protection agency by $50 million. The bill also restores funding for several programs that help combat terrorism on the local level but were eliminated or severely cut by the President’s budget, such as the Local Law Enforcement Terrorist Prevention program, and State Homeland Security Grants. Additionally, approximately $800 million is allocated for Firefighters Assistance Grants, a program designed to help local fire departments obtain critically needed equipment, protective gear, emergency vehicles, training, and other resources needed to protect the public and emergency personnel from fire and related hazards. This amount represents a $138 million increase over FY 2007 and $500 million more than the amount requested by President Bush. The bill now moves to the Senate for consideration. For a more detailed summary of the bill, please visit the House Appropriations website:https://appropriations.house.gov/pdf/HomelandFC.pdf
06.01.2007	Washington, D.C. Congressman Sanford Bishop last night participated in a bi-partisan effort to defeat an amendment to the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations bill that would have cut funding for the Western Hemisphere Institute for Security Cooperation (WHINSEC) and severely crippled the Fort Benning-based program. Congressman James McGovern (D-MA) sponsored the amendment which was narrowly defeated by a vote of 214-203. Bishop, whose district includes Fort Benning, said, “Since I entered Congress in 1993 this important program has been under attack. However, I believe WHINSEC is of vital importance to our national security interests and is a unique, creative, and powerful tool in preserving democracy and fighting the Global War on Terror. Last night’s vote exemplifies the continued bi-partisan support of WHINSEC and I am particularly pleased and grateful to my colleagues on both sides of the aisle for supporting the continuation of the program.” As it became clear that the amendment would be supported by a majority of Republicans, Bishop worked with key House Democratic leaders, including members of both the House Armed Services and Appropriations Committees, to secure the necessary Democratic votes to ensure its defeat. Almost every year since Bishop has been in Congress, cuts to WHINSEC have been proposed, and each time the efforts have failed. WHINSEC offers Spanish-language education and training for Latin American military and law-enforcement personnel. In 2001 the program underwent structural accountability and the curriculum was overhauled to place increased focus on human rights, ethics and democracy training. Today WHINSEC graduates approximately 800 -1000 military officers each year.
06.01.2007	Washington, D.C. Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop Jr. announced that Albany State University has been chosen by the U.S. Department of Education to receive funding under the Historical Black Colleges and Universities (HBCU) Institutional Aid Program. The grant, which is anticipated to be for a period of five years, will provide $3,454,282 to the school for fiscal year (FY) 2008. After that period, grant amounts are projected to be at or near that of FY 2008; however, the exact disbursement will depend on overall appropriations allocated to the Department of Education within the federal budget. Congressman Bishop, whose district includes Albany, remarked, "I am so pleased that Albany State University is the recipient of this grant. These funds will go a long way toward continuing the robust educational legacy of this institution and providing even more opportunities to its students." The purpose of the Historically Black Colleges and Universities Program is to provide financial assistance to establish or strengthen the academic resources, financial management, endowments and physical plants of historically Black colleges and universities.
06.01.2007	Washington, D.C. Congressman Sanford D. Bishop Jr., Representative of Georgia’s Second Congressional District, announced today that the full House of Representatives has approved the fiscal year (FY) 2008 Interior and Environment Appropriations bill. While the overall objective of the bill is to ensure a higher quality for America’s water, air and natural resources, a specific provision of the bill will provide $500,000 to the city of Vienna to assist in improving its wastewater system. "The city of Vienna, through this funding, will be able to create a healthier environment for its citizens, provide a higher quality of life, and plan for future growth," said Congressman Bishop. "Furthermore, I am pleased this bill will help protect America’s natural beauty, our drinking water, and make certain that disasters such as wildfires, which have been so devastating to many parts of Georgia, will be appropriately managed in the future." The bill, which passed last night, provides a total of $27.6 billion for the Department of the Interior, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), the U.S. Forestry Service and related agencies. This amount is $1.1 billion above the FY 2007 funding level and $1.9 billion above the amount requested by President Bush. The Senate must now complete action on their version of the bill.
05.01.2007	Washington, D.C. - Georgia’s Second District Congressman, Rep. Sanford Bishop, considers meeting the men and women of the U.S. Military to be “part of the job” but, usually, he meets brigades or platoons at a time, or hosts military representatives in his Capitol Hill office to discuss specific legislative issues. So, yesterday was particularly special for both the Congressman and Spc. Dontavius McGee, 21, of Pelham, GA, as the Congressman gave him a tour of the White House and U.S. Capitol. Spc. McGee is currently living in Washington, D.C., at an outpatient facility of Walter Reed Army Medical Center while recuperating from a knee injury suffered in Ceder II, Nasiriyah, Iraq. “I was humbled to meet Spc. McGee. He has served this country honorably, and showing him part of Washington was the least I could do to thank him for his service. I was proud to have him as my guest and I wish him a healthy and speedy recovery,” said Bishop. After visiting the White House early this morning, McGee then visited Congressman Bishop’s office on Capitol Hill, the U.S. Capitol building –where he witnessed some spirited debate over the Defense Authorization bill – and ate lunch in the Member’s Dining Room. “It’s so nice to get off the Walter Reed campus for the day and finally see some sights in Washington,” said McGee, who has been at the facility since March 18. He added, “The White House was very nice. But the floor of the House of Representatives – well, there seemed to be a lot going on down there!” McGee, who spent 11 months in Iraq with the 214th Field Artillery Unit of the Army National Guard based out of Elberton, GA, is a graduate of Pelham High School in Mitchell County. He joined the Army National Guard while still in high school and spent less than one semester at Darton College before being called up to go to Iraq. During his tour of duty there, he earned the name “Go Getter” because “I was always out there getting at it, no matter what,” said McGee. Next month, he will undergo surgery to repair a torn muscle in his knee and subsequently will either return to Pelham, or remain in Washington, D.C. for physical therapy. McGee has enjoyed his time in the nation’s capital and does not yet know where he will go to complete his therapy. He is planning, however, to be off crutches and “walking, definitely” very soon. He is the son of Sharnta Atkins and Willie Atkins, both of Pelham.
05.01.2007	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr., Representative from Georgia’s Second Congressional District, today joined a bipartisan majority in the House of Representatives to pass legislation to improve benefits and services for America’s veterans. “As we approach the upcoming Memorial Day weekend, Americans across the country will be honoring our veterans,” said Bishop. “However, it is my hope that with this legislation, we are honoring our courageous veterans not just for today, tomorrow or this weekend, but well into the future.” Since January, the new Congress has worked to honor veterans by improving veterans’ health care, strengthening benefits for those currently serving, and providing long overdue benefits for the veterans and military retirees who have already served. Additionally, the Congress has led calls for new management in the wake of the Walter Reed Army Medical Center Scandal and fought to increase veterans’ health care and benefits programs by nearly $12 billion, including nearly $2 billion for veterans in the Iraq supplemental. The legislation passed by the House of Representatives today addresses some of the new challenges facing veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan and includes: • Traumatic Brain Injury/Rural Veterans Outreach (H.R. 2199): Ensures that our veterans are properly screened for Traumatic Brain Injury and receive the appropriate treatment. More than half of combat casualties in Iraq and Afghanistan have associated brain injuries, often due to improvised explosive devices. The legislation also expands VA resources to provide rural communities with “mobile vet centers” for mental health services and benefits outreach. • Returning Servicemember VA Healthcare Insurance Act (H.R. 612): Helps ensure that soldiers with mental health conditions as a result of combat (such as post-traumatic stress disorder -PTSD) who are not immediately diagnosed are treated by making those veterans eligible for health care for five years after leaving active duty. • Veterans Outreach Improvement Act (H.R. 67): Allows the VA to partner with state and local governments to reach out to veterans and their families in ensuring they receive the benefits they have earned. • Early Access to Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment Benefits Act (H.R. 2239): Extends eligibility for rehabilitation benefits from the Veterans' Affairs Department. • Chiropractic Care Available to All Veterans Act (H.R. 1470): Requires that chiropractic care and services be provided to veterans at all Department of Veterans Affairs medical centers.
04.01.2007	Columbus, GA. - Today, ConAgra Foods. Inc. announced that it will renovate and install new state-of-the-art equipment before it reopens the Sylvester, GA facility where its recalled peanut butter products were produced. Additionally, it has created a new executive position, Vice President of Global Foods Safety, to bring additional focus and leadership to the area of product safety and design. This follows a two month investigation by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention which showed a possible link between ConAgra Foods’ peanut butter and a nationwide salmonella outbreak. Congressman Sanford Bishop, representative from Georgia’s Second Congressional District which includes Sylvester, issued a statement following the announcement: “Ever since this issue came to light, ConAgra has acted in the best interest of both the public health as well as the 200 employees who work at the Sylvester plant. Today’s announcement further exemplifies how well they have responded to this crisis and I am so pleased that the Sylvester facility will remain in operation, and benefit from some significant improvements. I am proud to have ConAgra in my district and I look forward to visiting the plant soon after the renovations are completed.”
04.01.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr., Representative from Georgia’s Second Congressional District, announced that the U.S. House of Representatives approved by a vote of 394 to 25 the Water Resources Development Act (or WRDA). The legislation includes a provision authorizing the Secretary of the Army to conduct a study and carry out the restoration of the aquatic ecosystem of the Chattahoochee Fall Line near Columbus, Georgia. Congressman Bishop supported the inclusion of this project into the legislation. "As Members of Congress, we must be held accountable to the environment as well as to our constituencies," said Bishop. "This provision is an important first step in ensuring that the beautiful and diverse ecosystem of the Chattahoochee Fall Line is preserved into the future. There is a tremendous potential of tapping this area for tourism and recreation as well, and I look forward to working with the Secretary of the Army on the next stage." The project will explore how to restore fish habitats for the shoal bass and other species in a 2.3-mile segment of the Chattahoochee River through the removal of two low-head dams on the Middle Chattahoochee River at Columbus and Phenix City, Alabama. Continued restoration of the river also is expected to serve as a tremendous boost to economic development and tourism in Southwest Georgia. The WRDA bill authorizes funds for the construction of water resource development projects and studies by the Army Corps of Engineers for flood control, navigation, and environmental restoration. Following today’s vote, the Senate will consider its version of the WRDA bill in the near future.
03.01.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. Today, in the wake of a severe weather system that caused excessive rain, hail, and tornadoes resulting in numerous fatalities and structural damage to buildings, Governor Sonny Perdue declared a State of Emergency for the following second congressional district counties: Baker, Clay, Stewart, Sumter and Taylor. Congressman Sanford Bishop, representative for Georgia’s Second Congressional District, issued the following statement in response to the reports of devastation and damage: “First of all, I would like to send my heartfelt condolences to those who have lost loved ones in the wake of this storm. My wife and I, as well as my staff, will be mindful of you in our thoughts and prayers. Early this morning, representatives from our district staff were on the scene in the affected counties to assess the situation. We have also been in touch with the Governor, GEMA, local law enforcement and health care organizations to help coordinate aid to the communities there. Tomorrow, I will accompany President Bush as he tours the tornado-damaged areas. Additionally, 180 National Guard troops will be in the area tomorrow to assist with recovery efforts. Most importantly, I want everyone to know that our office is available and will continue to provide assistance and the most up-to-the-minute information as this situation develops. Please do not hesitate to contact us.” Other affected second district counties include Crawford and Quitman. Emergency Contact Information: Congressman Bishop’s Columbus Office: (706) 320-9477 Americus Command Center: (229) 928-0333 Charles Dawson, GEMA, Director of Operations: (404) 635-7001 Jonna West, GEMA, Field Coordinator: (404) 683-3339
03.01.2007	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Sanford Bishop announced today that he is cosponsoring the Program for Real Energy Security or PROGRESS Act, which would initiate a major national effort to make our nation energy independent and advance our economic, national and environmental security. “I am cosponsoring the PROGRESS Act because it will take our nation in a new direction on energy. I am confident that we can give our children a safer nation, stronger economy and healthier environment if we commit ourselves to the goals outlined in this important bill,” said Congressman Bishop. “Our dependence on foreign sources of oil is a threat to our national security,” continued Bishop. “In addition, it is becoming increasingly clear that continued attention on developing energy from agricultural products could provide a tremendous economic benefit to the Second Congressional District of Georgia. By harnessing the ingenuity to invent new technologies, we can create jobs, protect our environment, and increase our security.” The PROGRESS Act would launch a national effort to make substantial gains in technology, conservation, vehicle efficiency, and the use of alternative fuels. The proposals in this legislation are designed to complement Democrats’ Innovation Agenda, and the House Democrats’ Rural Working Group’s Biofuels Plan. The PROGRESS Act has five major components: Establish a National Energy Security Commission that would bring together government, industry and academic leaders to develop national goals that respect regional energy solutions and develop recommendations that Congress would have to act upon under expedited rules. Right now there is no entity that brings such experts together in common cause. Establish a New Manhattan Center for High Efficiency Vehicles that would result in the widespread availability of technologies to double the current average vehicle efficiency, diversify types of fuels, and continue to develop the future of fuel cells and hydrogen. The Center would ensure that Americans drive more efficient cars and have a choice of fuels and energy sources. Establish a National Biofuels Infrastructure Development Program that would promote development of wholesale and retail biofuels pumps, tanks, and other related distribution equipment. Vehicles that run on ethanol and biodiesel are being produced. But we must develop biofuel infrastructure to make them practical and widespread. Promote Transit Use & Develop a Rail Infrastructure Program that would create a stimulus package to promote public transit and infrastructure investment that upgrades the “pipeline” for biofuels – the freight rail system – in order to get an affordable and reliable supply of biofuels to market. Ensure Federal Government Leadership in the Use of the Alternatives to Oil by increasing the use of alternative fuels in federal and state fleets, developing biofuel plants in every region of the country, and speeding development of standards that are needed to promote alternative fuels use. The federal government is one of the leading owners of vehicle fleets and consumers of petroleum products. The government must lead by example. The PROGRESS Act focuses on transportation and its contribution to our dependence on foreign oil and damage to the environment. More than 65 percent of the oil our nation consumes goes toward transportation.
03.01.2007	Washington, D.C. Congressman Sanford Bishop, a Member of the House Appropriations Committee announced that the proposed FY 2007 Supplemental Appropriations bill contains language to provide $74 million for the payment of storage, handling and other associated costs for the 2007 crop of peanuts. “I know this has been the number-one concern of the Peanut Industry and I am very pleased that my colleagues supported an extension of the peanut storage and handling fee program. Omitting this provision from the bill could have proven disastrous for most of the peanut growers and processors in the Second Congressional District,” Congressman Bishop said. “This program is extremely vital to one of Georgia’s most important commodities -- peanuts.” Without the action of Congress, growers would have been forced to absorb the storage costs and would have greatly diminished their margin of their return, causing tremendous economic hardship. “Agriculture literally forms the backbone of Southwest Georgia and the proposed legislation will go a long way to ensuring its continued strength,” said Congressman Bishop. The bill is expected to be approved by the House Appropriations Committee on March 15, 2007.
03.01.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. Today, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr., a Member of the House Appropriations Committee, announced that the full House of Representatives passed the U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans’ Health, and Iraq Accountability Act by a vote of 218 to 212. Congressman Bishop voted for the bill. “Today is an historic day and I am proud to have played a role in passing this important legislation to change direction in Iraq and protect our troops. With this bill, our troops will finally be equipped to do their jobs, complete their mission and return home,“ commented Bishop. “This is not a timeline on our troops; instead, it is a timeline on the Iraqis to come together and take control of their country. Until now, they’ve been unable or unwilling to put aside their sectarian differences to unify and bring an end to the violence and killing. It is our hope that this bill will give them more impetus to do just that.” The bulk of the $124 billion emergency spending bill will provide our troops with the proper training and equipment they need to fight the ongoing efforts in Iraq and Afghanistan, the proper guidelines for rest and recuperation between deployments and establish a date for redeployment from Iraq. Additionally, the bill puts a priority on caring for our men and women in uniform by boosting spending for Defense Health and Veterans Health care. Among other things, this money is intended to begin to fix the problems within the Walter Reed Army Medical Center and the Veterans Health Care System. Also added into the bill is emergency funding for several domestic programs, including $750 million for the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP). Georgia will receive $131 million of the SCHIP funds in order to fix PeachCare for Kids, a program in such dire straits it stopped accepting enrollees on March 11. “I am very pleased my colleagues approved emergency funding for the SCHIP program. Next to the war in Iraq, this is one of the most important issues on the minds of my constituents and many Georgians.” The bill also includes a provision, inserted by Congressman Bishop, that provides $74 million for the payment of peanut storage and handling fees. These provisions will keep peanut farmers from having to suddenly absorb the additional costs imposed upon them by the expiration similar provisions in Farm bill last year. In 2006, the language was proposed by Bishop along with Congressman Jack Kingston (R-GA). However, the Republican Congress failed to pass 9 of 11 Congressional spending bills, including the Agricultural Appropriations bill. “My colleagues and I have heard from farmers from across the country in drastic need of this long-standing program because it allows them to survive. The failure to secure the funding in 2006 has put the peanut industry at risk,” said Bishop. “In light of those circumstances, I am very pleased to have been able to play a part in securing this funding and help keep afloat not only Southwest Georgia’s economy, but also other states where the peanut industry plays a vital role.” Other emergency provisions included in the bill provide funding for much needed Gulf Coast Recovery for those affected by Hurricane Katrina, soldiers suffering from Post Traumatic Stress Disorder and traumatic brain injuries, agricultural disaster assistance and low-income home energy assistance. Now that the FY 07 Supplemental Appropriations bill has passed the House of Representatives, it heads to the Senate for consideration. The following is a more detailed breakdown of the provisions contained within the bill: The U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Health, and Iraq Accountability Act fully supports our troops and our veterans by containing more funding for them than the President requested. This includes: Defense Health Care -- $1.7 billion above the President’s Request * $450 million for Post Traumatic Stress Disorder/Counseling * $450 million for Traumatic Brain Injury care and research * $730 million to prevent health care fee increases for our troops * $20 million to address the problems at Walter Reed * $14.8 million for burn care Veteran’s Health Care -- $1.7 Billion more than the President’s Request * $550 million to address the backlog in maintaining VA health care facilities – intended to prevent the VA from experiencing a situation similar to that found at Walter Reed * $250 million for medical administration to ensure there are sufficient personnel to support the growing number of Iraq and Afghanistan veterans and to maintain a high level of services for all veterans * $229 million for treating the growing number of Iraq and Afghanistan veterans * $100 million for contract mental health care – with this funding allowing the VA to contract with private mental health care providers to ensure that Iraq and Afghanistan veterans are seen in the most timely and least disruptive fashion, including members of the Guard and Reserve * $62 million to speed up the processing of claims of veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan Addressing the Readiness Crisis & Other Steps to Support Our Troops * $2.5 billion more to address the current readiness crisis of our stateside troops, including ensuring that they are better equipped and trained * $1.4 billion more for military housing allowances * $311 million more for Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP) vehicles for troops in Iraq * $222 million more for infrared countermeasures for Air Force aircraft to address the growing threat against U.S. air operations in Iraq and Afghanistan Meeting Benchmarks and Ending our Involvement in Iraq’s Civil War. The proposal would pressure the Iraqi leaders to improve their performance by establishing a timeline for ending U.S. participation in Iraq’s civil war. * Progressing Toward Political and Military Benchmarks. By July 1, 2007, the President must certify that Iraq is making meaningful and substantial progress in meeting political and military benchmarks, including a militia disarmament program and a plan that equitably shares oil revenues among all Iraqis. If the President does not provide this certification then U.S. forces must begin an immediate redeployment to be completed no later than December 2007 (180 days). * Achieving Political and Military Benchmarks. By October 1, 2007, the President must certify that Iraqis have achieved the political and military benchmarks. If he does not provide this certification then U.S. forces must begin an immediate redeployment to be completed by March 2008 (180 days). * Ending U.S. Participation in the War. Should both certifications be provided, the Administration must begin redeploying U.S. forces from Iraq by March 1, 2008 and complete the redeployment by August 2008 (180 days). State Children’s Health Insurance Program: The proposal adds $750 million for SCHIP to ensure continued health care coverage for children in 14 states that face a budget shortfall in the program. This includes $131 to shore up Georgia’s PeachCare for Kids. Agricultural Assistance: Adds $3.7 billion, largely for a scaled down agriculture disaster program that would only assist those farmers who have met their responsibility to purchase crop insurance. However, this also includes the $74 million for peanut handling and storage fees. FEMA Disaster Relief Fund: Adds $910 million to the request to cover the cost of waiving Stafford Act state and local government matching fund requirements for some FEMA disaster assistance programs already provided in Mississippi, Louisiana and Texas. Agriculture Disaster: Includes $140 million for farmers and ranchers affected by the hurricanes. Loan Forgiveness: Eliminates special rules that prohibit loan forgiveness for Katrina and Rita related Community Disaster Loans. Continued Assistance: Extends FEMA’s ability to pay utility costs through February 7, 2008; extends the availability of previously appropriated Title XX Social Services Block Grant funds through September 30, 2008; extends the Secretary of Education’s authority to waive certain regulations for emergency assistance to reopen schools in hurricane-impacted school districts for another year; and extends the Disaster Voucher Program, which provides Section 8 vouchers to low-income residents who moved to other parts of the country, to December 31, 2007. Additional Assistance: $120 million for disaster relief for fishing industries on the Louisiana Gulf Coast, $30 million for colleges and universities and $30 million for schools most severely impacted by the hurricanes to help them recover to normal operations, and $25.1 million to allow the Small Business Administration Disaster Loan Program to continue to make and service disaster loans to homeowners and businesses, including those affected by the 2005 Gulf Coast hurricanes. Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program: Adds $400 million to partially restore cuts to the program. Many states are running out of LIHEAP funds just as many utility shut-off moratoriums are set to expire.
03.01.2007	Washington, D.C. Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. announced today that the House of Representatives has approved its Fiscal Year 2008 budget resolution. Congressman Bishop supported the legislation, which was approved by the House of Representatives by a vote of 216 to 210. “Without raising a single penny in new taxes, we have created a responsible, disciplined budget that puts America on the path to erasing the deficit by 2012. Unfortunately, we cannot immediately undo the six years of irresponsible Republican spending and reckless fiscal mismanagement. With today’s vote, however, we have made the important next step in moving the country toward balancing the budget.” “Also, I am especially pleased with this budget not just because it raises no new taxes, but because it stands in stark contrast to the budget proposed by the President, which under funded critical areas like veteran’s health, education, and Gulf Coast Recovery. By demanding fiscal discipline and cutting wasteful spending, the Democrats have fully funded the areas that truly matter -- maintaining a strong national defense, strengthening the nation's farm economy, providing health care for our children, accommodating tax cuts for working families, responding to the needs of the Gulf Coast, and caring for our veterans.” In addition to the tax cuts for working families and contrary to Republican claims that the new budget raises taxes, the Democrat’s budget resolution maintains President Bush’s 2001 and 2003 tax cuts through their statutory end date of 2010. Future budgets will also allow for the extension of these and other tax cuts with the simple stipulation that they be offset in the budget. That is, that all new tax cuts and all new programs must be paid for in the budget. This offset principle comes at the urging of the fiscally conservative Blue Dog Coalition of which Congressman Bishop is a member. Called “pay-as-you-go” (PAYGO), it requires that any increases in entitlement spending or tax cuts be offset by cuts in other entitlement spending or by increased revenue. PAYGO, revives a rule which proved instrumental in changing the large budget deficits of the early 1990s into the projected ten-year budget surplus of $5.6 trillion in 2001. It is the Democrats’ goal that PAYGO will help shrink the current budget deficit of $3 trillion. In fact, the House budget projects a $153 billion surplus in Fiscal Year 2012. For the provisions in the House budget resolution to become final, it must be reconciled with the Senate version in a conference committee. The conference committee will take up the bill after the Easter break. The following is a more detailed breakdown of the House budget resolution both in terms of what it means for Georgians and how it compares to the President’s budget: Georgia: Defense and Veterans: * The largest veterans’ budget increase in American history – $3.5 billion more this year ($32 billion over the next five years) for veterans’ health care than the President’s budget. These additional resources are needed to provide excellent health care for new veterans, repair VA health care facilities, make needed investments in veterans’ mental health care and traumatic brain injury, and speed up and improve the accuracy of disability claims processing. These improvements are needed to ensure that the 760,324 veterans in Georgia receive care worthy of their sacrifice. It is also critical for the 38,304 brave Georgians, who have served their country in Afghanistan and Iraq since September 2001, [Veterans Administration, 9/04; Department of Defense, 2/07]. Agriculture: * The budget includes $5.8 billion for discretionary agriculture programs including loans to food and fiber producers, export assistance, market information, inspection services, and agricultural research. Families and the Economy: * Sets up a reserve fund for a long-term fix for the alternative minimum tax (AMT). In 2004, 73,000 Georgia families were subject to the AMT – and if nothing is done to fix the system, an estimated 534,000 families here in Georgia will be subject to the AMT in 2007 [CRS, 6/06]. * Small businesses employ nearly half of all workers and create three out four new jobs in America. In Georgia, there are 813,100 small businesses that serve as the engine of the economy [SBA, 2006]. * To spur economic growth and support small businesses here in Georgia, the House budget rejects the President’s proposal to cut the Small Business Administration by 26 percent from last year’s request and 56 percent from 2001. * Rejects the President’s cuts that eliminate $87,892,000 in funding for job training and employment services in Georgia [FFIS, 2/07]. Children and Education: * Helps the 293,750 Georgia children without insurance by increasing funding for State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) [Kaiser State Health Facts, 2005]. * Rejects the Administration’s proposal to cut Medicare funding by $709,586,851 for Georgia hospitals, skilled nursing facilities and home health care providers [American Hospital Association, 2/07]. * Provides more funding for Georgia's 1,530,700 children enrolled in public elementary, middle and high schools [Department of Education, 8/05]. * Increases resources for No Child Left Behind, special education and Head Start. Democratic budget proposal vs. President’s budget proposal: Overview: The President’s Budget Contains the Same Wrong Priorities of the Past Six Years. The President’s Budget Increases Taxes, is Fiscally Reckless and Morally Irresponsible, Slashing Funding for Key Priorities. Meanwhile, the Democratic Budget is a Step in a New Direction for America. The Democratic Budget Lowers Taxes for the Middle Class, Restores Fiscal Discipline and Accountability while Funding Key Priorities. > The President’s Budget Continues with More of the Same Wrong Priorities of the Past Six Years -- the same fiscal irresponsibility and misplaced priorities. It takes our country in the wrong direction. o President’s Budget Increases Taxes — The President’s budget includes a number of tax increases including $81 billion in new taxes over the next five years in the form of new user fees for veterans, seniors, and other taxpayers, and the President’s health care tax proposal that would raise taxes by more than $300 billion over ten years. o President’s Budget is Fiscally Reckless —The President’s fiscal recklessness is a tax on our future, creating a deficit in 2007 that is likely to reach $244 billion. The President’s budget creates trillions in new deficits over the next 10 years, squandering nearly $2 trillion on tax breaks for the wealthy and increasing the national debt by $2.5 trillion over five years. The President claims that his budget is in balance by 2012, but that is only because he leaves out enormous costs from his budget, including the five-year costs of fixing the Alternative Minimum Tax and the full costs for the Iraqi war. o President’s Budget is Morally Irresponsible — The President’s budget continues to shortchange veterans’ health care, cutting veterans’ health care by $3.5 billion over five years while imposing new fees on veterans totaling $4.9 billion over ten years. The President’s budget slashes Medicare and Medicaid by about $300 billion over the next ten years – with legislative and regulatory Medicaid cuts totaling about $50 billion and Medicare cuts totaling $252 billion. Appropriations for education programs are cut more deeply for each of the next three years, cutting 2010 funding by $3.1 billion below the FY 2006 enacted level. Pell Grants are increased, but at the cost of recalling all Perkins Loan funds and eliminating nine other higher education assistance programs. The President’s Budget continues to ignore the needs of the Gulf Coast Region. His Budget includes no additional funds for recovery efforts and cut the public housing capital fund, which is a key source of funding for repairs to New Orleans public housing. > The Democratic Budget is a Step in a New Direction for America. The Democratic Budget Lowers Taxes for the Middle Class, Restores Fiscal Discipline and Accountability, while at the Same Time Funding Key Priorities. o The Democratic Budget Lowers Taxes for the Middle Class. * DOES NOT increase— Republicans repeatedly and incorrectly claim that the Democratic budget includes the largest tax increase in American history. The statement is simply false – the Democratic budget does not raise a single penny of taxes, period. The only difference between Democrats and Republicans on middle-income tax cuts is that the Democratic budget requires that they be paid for--consistent with the House PAYGO rule. * Lowers Taxes for Middle Class Families — The Democratic budget explicitly provides for middle-income tax cuts, including the marriage penalty, child tax credit, the 10 percent bracket and the deduction for state and local sales taxes. (See Section 203). The Democratic budget leaves in place all of the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts until they expire, and then provides a reserve fund for the extension of the tax cuts consistent with the House Pay-As-You-Go rule. * Fixes the Tax Code for Middle-Income Americans — The House budget provides immediate relief for the 23 million middle class families who would otherwise be subject to the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) while supporting the efforts of the Committee on Ways and Means to achieve permanent, revenue-neutral AMT reform. (See section 202 of the budget.) Unless the AMT is reformed, 19 million additional families will have to pay higher taxes in 2007. The number of taxpayers that will be affected by the alternative minimum tax (AMT) will rise to more than 30 million in 2010, with taxpayers, on average, owing nearly $4,000 in taxes. Not fixing the AMT could translate into a $300 billion tax increase on middle-income families over five years. o The Democratic Budget Restores Fiscal Discipline and Accountability. * Lowers Deficit, Reimposes Pay-As-You-Go Rules, Cuts Down on Wasteful Spending — The deficit is lower in FY 2008 and $234 billion lower over the next 5 years compared to the President, and gets to balance by 2012. Our Budget re-imposes the pay-as-you-go rules, which require that spending increases and tax cuts to be paid for, and which brought us to budget surpluses in 1990s. Reinvigorates efforts to eliminate wasteful spending and improve government efficiency – in Social Security, Medicare, as well the Defense Department. o Funds Key Priorities. * Meets Our Obligations to Veterans — Provides for the largest veterans’ budget increase in American history, $3.5 billion more this year ($32 billion more over the next five years) than the President. This will provide excellent health care for all veterans, address VA health care’s repair and maintenance backlog, make needed investments in veterans’ mental health care and traumatic brain injury, and speed up and improve the accuracy of disability claims processing. A number of veterans’ service organizations have offered support for the budget proposal, including The American Legion, Vietnam Veterans of America, Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America, Veterans of Foreign Wars and Disabled American Veterans. * Addresses Problem of Children Without Health Insurance — There are nine million children without health insurance even though nearly six million of them are eligible for Medicaid or the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP). The budget includes a deficit-neutral reserve fund to provide up to $50 billion in additional resources to improve children’s health – enough to insure millions of eligible children and reduce the number of uninsured children over the next five years. According to CBO estimates, the President’s budget would actually do the opposite and would result in fewer children and pregnant women receiving coverage than currently do. * Invests in Education — At a time when more than 10 percent of students drop out of high school before graduating and only four out of ten children eligible for Head Start are able to participate, the budget reverses the Administration’s policy of under-investing in education for our children. The budget rejects the President’s proposal to cut funding for the Department of Education by $1.5 billion below the 2007 enacted level and eliminate 44 different programs, and provides for substantial new investments to increase funding for vital programs such as Head Start, special education (IDEA), Title I and other programs under the No Child Left Behind Act. The Budget also provides for funding the increase in Pell Grants so that high school students know that if they work hard, they can go to college. * Responds to the Needs of the Gulf Coast Region — The Majority Budget Responds to Ongoing Recovery Needs in Gulf Coast Region by Creating a Reserve Fund of 3.4 Billion Dollars and Providing an additional 1 Billion Dollars That Could be Used to Meet Urgent Recovery Needs.
02.01.2007	Washington, D.C. Yesterday, as Georgia’s Department of Community Health announced that it would stop accepting PeachCare enrollees on March 11, Congressman Sanford Bishop again requested House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and the Democratic leadership to intensify ongoing efforts to include additional funding for the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP), which funds PeachCare, in the FY07 Supplemental Appropriations bill. “In Georgia, our version of SCHIP – PeachCare – currently serves approximately 273,000 children from low- and middle income families; however it is facing a deficit of $131 million,” said the Congressman. “Without federal support, our state’s program will be forced to close altogether. It would be unconscionable to allow these children and families lose access to such a vital program.” Last month, Congressman Bishop, along with a bi-partisan delegation from Georgia, held a meeting with a group of Congressmen and staffers from several key offices within the House of Representatives responsible for the fate of PeachCare and the other SCHIP programs. At the meeting, representatives from several Congressional offices including House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s office, the office of the Majority Whip, the House Budget Committee, House Committee on Energy and Commerce and the House Appropriations Committee discussed the possible ways to solve the current funding shortfall. Since that time, House Speaker Pelosi and Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid both urged President Bush to submit emergency supplemental appropriations to save SCHIP. The President failed to act on that request, which forced the states to appeal to Congress. The FY Supplemental Appropriations bill will be considered by the House next month.
02.01.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. Congressman Sanford Bishop, Jr., of Georgia’s Second Congressional District released the following statement on the passing of fellow Georgian, Congressman Charlie Norwood of Georgia’s Tenth Congressional District: “I was saddened to hear of the passing of my friend, colleague, and fellow Georgian, Congressman Charlie Norwood. Though he hailed from the other side of the aisle, I admired him, as he was a fighter. He had tenacity, served well, and worked doggedly to do right by his district. I would like to send my heartfelt condolences to his family for losing a wonderful father and husband, to his staff, for losing an outstanding leader, and to his constituents, for losing a tireless advocate.”
02.01.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. Today, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is warning consumers not to eat certain jars of Peter Pan peanut butter or Great Value peanut butter due to risk of Salmonella contamination. The affected jars of Peter Pan and Great Value peanut butter have a product code located on the lid of the jar that begins with the number "2111." Both the Peter Pan and Great Value brands are manufactured in a single facility employing 132 people in Georgia’s Second Congressional District in Sylvester, Georgia by ConAgra Foods. Congressman Sanford Bishop, Jr., reacting to the news, said, “I am concerned that peanut butter from our local plant in Sylvester may be contaminated with Salmonella; however, I am very pleased at how quickly ConAgra Foods, which we call the ‘Peter Pan Plant,’ has cooperated with the FDA to ensure that the health and welfare of the public is protected.” ConAgra has voluntarily recalled all varieties of Peter Pan and Great Value peanut butter beginning with Product Code 2111. In addition, the company has a hold on all products in the plant and has ceased production until the exact cause of contamination is identified. Yesterday evening, the FDA sent a team to Sylvester to test air and product samples to conclusively determine if the Salmonella outbreak did in fact originate from the ConAgra facility. ConAgra, in its own random product and environmental testing for Salmonella, never found evidence of contamination that correspond with the product dates that caused illness. However, of the 85% of people who reported falling ill, 76% reported consuming Peter Pan peanut butter. Results of the FDA’s tests are expected to be available on Monday. Congressman Bishop stated further, “We’ve been assured by ConAgra that, no matter the results of the FDA testing, it is undergoing the proper measures to keep people safe and remain in operation.” If consumers have any Peter Pan or Great Value brand peanut butter in their home that has been purchased since May 2006, they should discard it. Symptoms of food borne illness caused by Salmonella include fever, diarrhea and abdominal cramps. In persons with poor underlying health or weakened immune systems, Salmonella can invade the bloodstream and cause life-threatening infections. Individuals who have recently eaten Peter Pan and Great Value brand peanut butter beginning with product code 2111 and have experienced any of these symptoms should contact their doctor or health care provider immediately. Any such illnesses should be reported to state or local health authorities.
01.01.2007	Washington, D.C. - Georgia’s Second Congressional District Representative Sanford Bishop, Member of the House Committee on Appropriations, today won appointments to join three subcommittees – Defense, Agriculture, and Military Construction/ Veterans Affairs. The Democratic Members of the House Appropriations Committee met this morning to officially fill the subcommittee seats allotted to the majority party in the newly convened 110th Congress. “I am very pleased. This bodes well for the Second Congressional district and my constituents particularly given the importance of the military facilities there such as Fort Benning and MCLB Albany. The opportunity to join the Agriculture Subcommittee is also exciting given the role the agriculture industry plays in middle and southwest Georgia, particularly regarding peanuts and cotton. Additionally, considering the role of the defense and agricultural industries throughout Georgia, I am especially pleased to have the ability to better serve the citizens of the state.” Congressman Bishop also has been selected to serve as a Senior Whip in the Majority Whip operation for the 110th Congress. Senior Whips are a group of senior Members and Caucus opinion leaders who play key roles in planning how an issue impacts certain Members or groups and helping develop strategies to ensure legislative success.
01.01.2007	Washington, D.C. On Thursday, the President will travel to Fort Benning, Georgia, to have lunch with the troops and watch a military weapons demonstration. Representative Sanford Bishop, U.S. Congressman from Georgia’s Second District which includes Fort Benning, has been asked to join President Bush on the visit. The event follows this evening’s address to the nation where the President outlined his plan to send an additional 20,000 troops to Iraq. In anticipation of the visit, Congressman Bishop issued the following statement: “I support our troops, their families and all who have sacrificed so much for America in this war. The units from Fort Benning, our other military bases, as well as the men and women of the National Guard and Reserve components have performed exceptionally well under the most challenging of conditions. I sincerely congratulate these brave men and women and thank them for their enormous sacrifice. However, I, along with many others who have supported the Iraq efforts in the past, have serious reservations about the President’s new way forward. Like General Schoomaker and the other U.S. Military professionals, I believe we should not surge without a purpose and that purpose should be measurable in its outcome. Thus far, the President has not set forth a clear marker against which the purpose and outcome can be measured. For example: * From December 2003 to April 2004, there was a surge from 122,000 to 137,000 troops. Nevertheless, April 2004 was one of the deadliest months for American forces (Brookings Institution, 12/21/06, www.icasualties.org, USA Today, 3/4/04). * From November 2004 to March 2005, following the Fallujah offensive which sought to increase security for the January constitutional elections, forces were increased from 137,000 to 150,000. There was no long-term security impact (Brookings Institution 12/21/2006, NYTimes 12/2/04). * From September to December 2005, troop levels increased to 160,000 in order to provide a secure environment for the constitutional referendum and parliamentary elections. While the elections went off without major violence, the troop escalations had little long-term impact on quelling sectarian violence or attacks on American troops (Brookings Institution, 12/21/06, www.icasualties.org). * In June of last year, there was an effort to secure Baghdad by increasing not only American but also Iraqi forces. By October, General William Caldwell acknowledged that the operation and troop increase was a failure and had not met expectations of sustaining a reduction in the levels of violence (CNN 12/19/06, Washington Post 7/26/06, Brookings Institution, 12/21/06). General Abazaid, General Dempsey, General Schoomaker and General Casey have all agreed that heavy, sustained American military presence will not solve the problems in Iraq over the long-term. The purpose and outcome are not measurable. Prime Minister Maliki met with President Bush on November 30 of last year but did not ask for more American troops as part of the new Baghdad security plan. Maliki’s idea was to lower the U.S. profile, instead of raising it (Washington Post, 1/10/2006). General Schoomaker testified that the Army is not capable at this time of generating and sustaining the required forces to wage the global war on terror along with all the other operational requirements without the National Guard and Reserves. Over the last five years, the strategic demand for deployed combat brigades and other supporting units is placing a severe strain on the all-volunteer army. The time between deployments for combat teams is less than one year. Without repeated use of reserve components through re-mobilization, we will break the active army’s capacity (Testimony of General Schoomaker before the Commission on the National Guard and Reserves, 12/14/06). To surge, forces will have to be moved from other strategic locations around the world; the Reserves and National Guard components who have already served will have to be re-deployed; and new equipment, weapons, ammunition and other materials will have to be procured. This leaves no reserve capacity for any unforeseen future requirements. There is substantial doubt regarding the ability of the Iraqi security forces to maintain their level of troop strength and performance for the new surge, given their history of desertions and AWOLs in the heat of battle which exposes American troops to more deadly risk. As a member of Congress who sits on the Defense and Military Construction/ VA Subcommittees of the Appropriations Committee which must fund these efforts, I take seriously my duty to support and protect our young men and women who must execute the orders of our Commander-in-Chief. Ultimately, it is the President’s call and not mine. However, I feel it my patriotic duty to express my serious misgivings about his proposed actions.”
01.01.2007	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sanford Bishop voted to improve access to affordable medicines by voting for legislation which requires the Department of Health and Human Services to negotiate with drug companies for lower drug prices for Medicare beneficiaries. The House passed the bill this afternoon by a vote of 255 to 170. “Of late, drug costs have been rising faster than the rate of inflation. This phenomenon places a heavy burden on those in lower-income brackets, many of whom are senior citizens and on Medicare,” stated Congressman Bishop. “This legislation aims to allow our seniors to more easily afford groceries, housing and other necessities, rather than sacrifice a large portion of their income for artificially-expensive prescription medication.” “Previous laws concerning prescription drugs prohibited the Department of Health and Human Services from negotiating for lower drug prices for Medicare beneficiaries,” he continued. “Meanwhile, the Veterans Administration has been able to use its buying power to negotiate low drug prices for veterans for years. This bill passed today repeals the prohibitive provisions on HHS, giving them the same buying power enjoyed by the Veteran’s Administration.” This bill also gives Medicare discretion on how to best implement the negotiating authority and in supplying Medicare beneficiaries with low-cost drugs. The bill is supported by many organizations, including AARP, National Community Pharmacists Association, Association of Community Pharmacists, and Families USA.
01.01.2007	Bishop receives gavel as president of Washington, D.C. service club Washington, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Sanford Bishop (D-Georgia) today congratulated his wife, Vivian Bishop, on the occasion of her becoming President of the Washington D.C.-based Congressional Club. Mrs. Bishop formally received the gavel from the former president, Mrs. Vicki Tiahrt, wife of Congressman Todd Tiahrt, Republican of Kansas. Mrs. Bishop will be the first African American president of The Congressional Club. In her role as President, Bishop will oversee a vast membership of spouses of Members of Congress, Ambassadors, Supreme Court justices and cabinet secretaries. In addition, she will coordinate luncheons and other special events. During the 60th Congress, in May 1908, H.R. 22029 was passed by both the House and the Senate that incorporated the Congressional Club. The Congressional Club is the only club in the world to be incorporated by an Act of Congress. The Club nurtures and encourages bipartisan friendships among Congressional spouses
01.01.2007	Washington, D.C. Today, Congressman Sanford Bishop, along with a bi-partisan delegation from Georgia, held a meeting with a group of Congressmen and staffers from several key offices within the House of Representatives responsible for the fate of Georgia’s PeachCare for Kids health care program. Currently facing a federal funding deficit of $131 million, PeachCare must receive authorization from Congress in order to continue operating. At this afternoon’s meeting, representatives from several Congressional offices including House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s office, the office of the Majority Whip, the House Budget Committee, House Committee on Energy and Commerce and the House Appropriations Committee discussed the possible ways to solve the current funding shortfall. If funding is not secured, PeachCare could run out of cash in March of this year. Last week, the Georgia Senate and House of Representatives passed separate resolutions asking Congress for help by expressing the urgency of the problem. House Minority Caucus Chair Calvin Smyre (D-Muscogee) subsequently placed a call to Congressman Bishop asking him to set up the meeting with the House leadership, lawmakers and key committee staff. Congressman Bishop, who sits on the House Appropriations Committee, hopes to work with the state of Georgia and Congress to help further a program which currently provides affordable health care to over 270,000 Georgia children from low-income families. About 23,000 of those children live in Georgia’s Second Congressional District, the area represented by Bishop. “I am pleased to meet here today with this bi-partisan group to help find a solution to the current problems faced by PeachCare. Given the success of this program, it is critical that authorization and continued funding are secured,” remarked Congressman Bishop. PeachCare for kids began covering children in 1999, providing comprehensive health care to children through the age of 18 who do not qualify for Medicaid and live in households with incomes at or below 235% of the federal poverty level. By giving families a choice in health plans and providers, the program has served as a successful model of public-private partnerships, and has received praise from consumers, providers and administrators of the plans. In addition to Rep. Bishop, other Congressmen in attendance were: House Majority Whip James Clyburn (D-SC), Frank Pallone (D-NJ), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Health of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, Phil Gingrey (R-GA), John Lewis (D-GA), Jim Marshall (D-GA), David Scott (D-GA), Hank Johnson (D-GA), and John Barrow (D-GA). Others in the state delegation besides Rep. Smyre were Dr. Rhonda Medows, Commissioner of the Georgia Department of Community Health which administers the program, Padgett Wilson, Director of Federal Affairs for Governor Sonny Perdue, state Reps. Barry A. Fleming (R-Columbia), Georgia House Majority Whip, Mickey Channell (R-Greene), Chairman of the Health Subcommittee of the House Committee on Appropriations, and Pat Gardner (D-Dekalb), Member of the Health Subcommittee of the House Committee on Appropriations, and Sens. Horacena Tate (D-Fulton), Georgia Minority Caucus Secretary as well as Greg Goggans (R-Douglas), Vice – Chairman of the Appropriations Committee.
01.01.2007	Washington, D.C. Today, the House of Representatives passed a bill which Congressman Sanford Bishop supported reforming the Congressional page program. The measure improves oversight of the Page Program by requiring regular meetings of the Page Board and makes the Page Board fully bipartisan, comprised of 2 Democrats and 2 Republicans. Also on the board will be a former page and the parent of a person who is or has been a page in the past 5 years. For more than 150 years, young men and women from across the nation have come to Washington to serve as pages in the U.S. Capitol. This measure reforms the Page Board to make sure scandals, such as the recent incident involving former Rep. Mark Foley’s inappropriate contact with underage male pages, never occur again. Remarked Congressman Bishop “As a Member of Congress, protecting the young people who serve as pages is a high priority. This measure is another critical step in restoring integrity to the institution of the House of Representatives.”
01.01.2007	WASHINGTON, DC. Congressman Sanford Bishop released the following statement in response to President Bush’s State of the Union Address. “Last November, the American people demanded a dramatic change at home and abroad. Now in the majority, Democrats in Congress are delivering that change by reaching out to Republicans and delivering results on the priorities of the American people. Tonight’s speech by the President responded to those demands for changes in domestic policy. However, before considering any new domestic policies, we must recognize the elephant in the room: the prolongation of the war in Iraq is also a continuation of spending American dollars and, subsequently, an immediate hindrance to meeting our domestic policy goals. Improving health care, education, energy and other programs all come with associated costs that will have to be weighed against the cost of war. There remain many differences to be worked out on Iraq, not only between Democrats and Republicans but also between the President and Congress. At this time, it is unclear what, if any, action will be taken by Congress. Hopefully, the recent surge in troop levels will be able to produce a measurable outcome such as a reduction in sectarian violence and killing and increased security in Baghdad. But, no matter the result of this most recent surge in troop levels, the actions of Congress should be in the collective interest of national security, the troops and the American people. Regarding the specifics of the domestic agenda, I wholeheartedly agree that we must solve the nation’s health care crisis. However, I am hesitant to endorse a plan that potentially taxes middle class American families. In recent months, Democrats have proposed alternative ways in which universal health care could be achieved without levying a tax on the middle class. As we move forward, it is my hope that we can examine these plans and choose those aspects which minimize any kind of tax while helping the largest group of people possible. Our dependence on foreign oil has placed a burden on working families, threatened national security and harmed the environment. Last week, in the first 100 Hours, we repealed the subsidies previously given to Big Oil, in hopes of investing those funds in the alternative fuels and technologies needed to help our families, national security, and the future of our planet. It is my hope that the 110th Congress can work with President Bush in a bipartisan fashion to achieve these aims. Ultimately, the proof is in the pudding: when the President releases his budget during the first week in February, we will truly have a better grasp of the policies laid out this evening. In the meantime, I look forward to getting down to business and stand ready to work with my Congressional colleagues on both sides of the aisle on this ambitious agenda.”
06.01.2006	Washington, D.C. Congressman Sanford Bishop, a Member of the House Appropriations Committee, announced that the fiscal year 2007 Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations bill includes funding for $1,525,000 in projects in the Second Congressional District. The appropriations bill, which Congressman Bishop helped to craft, was passed by the full House Appropriations Committee yesterday. In addition to the local funding included in the bill, the Committee passed an amendment to increase the minimum wage over the next two years. The amendment passed with a bipartisan vote of 32 to 27 – with Congressman Bishop voting in the affirmative – and will raise the minimum wage from $5.15 to $7.25 an hour over the next two years. This provision must now be passed by the full House of Representatives where its future is uncertain. “I am very pleased that I was able to secure these funds for our district,” said Congressman Bishop. “The resources the Second Congressional District will receive are going to improve healthcare technology and access, increase opportunities for children to learn science and math, and help to build stronger families.” Projects included in the bill are: $75,000 for facilities and equipment at Colquitt Regional Medical Center in Moultrie; $350,000 for cancer education and early detection at the John B. Amos Cancer Center at the Columbus Regional Healthcare System in Columbus; $75,000 for a student nutrition and physical fitness program through Youth Becoming Healthy in Albany; $200,000 for family counseling and youth mentoring at the Family Center of Columbus GA; $300,000 for math and science education for at risk students through Albany State University; $225,000 to assist English language learners through the Georgia Project; and $300,000 for post secondary support for minority males at Albany State and Darton College.
06.01.2006	Washington, D.C. Congressman Sanford Bishop, a Member of the House Appropriations Committee, is pleased to announce that the full Appropriations Committee has approved language that directs a federal study on the impact of BRAC on Columbus-area schools, and other communities similarly impacted. The appropriations bill, which passed the full House Appropriations Committee yesterday, includes report language inserted by Congressman Bishop directing the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to study the effects of rebasing and relocation of military personnel. The language instructs the GAO to research “the projected number and percentage increase in student enrollment, and the economic impact which may result from increased student enrollment.” “This bill will begin to tackle one of the major national issues which resulted from the Department of Defense’s base realignment process. The local economic impact of moving thousands of new students is tremendous, particularly on Columbus and Muscogee County, which are going to feel the brunt of it,” said Congressman Bishop. “This study is a fundamental step in moving forward towards establishing a clear role for the federal government in addressing the needs of communities affected by this military initiative.” Congressman Bishop has worked very closely with the Muscogee County School District to help find a solution for the influx of students that will result from the expansion of Fort Benning. Fort Benning expects to receive as many as 9,000 new students after the completion of troop redeployment. In addition, Congressman Bishop was successful in securing $5 million in the bill for the construction of a Multi-purpose Parade Field for the National Infantry Museum at Fort Benning. This project will provide our soldiers with a place of honor on which to perform their graduation ceremonies and other important events, as part of the larger Infantry Heritage Park. “This community is blessed to have the ‘Home of the Infantry’ here among us, and I am pleased to have provided funds that will help the base and the surrounding area,” said Congressman Bishop. “Our soldiers are there for us everyday and they greatly deserve this project. The following is the report language as included in the full committee version of the Defense Appropriation bill passed yesterday: “The Effects of Rebasing: The unprecedented combination of Army transformation, the base closure process, and the Integrated Global Presence and Basing Strategy (IGPBS) will shift thousands of military and DoD civilian personnel to new communities nationwide. The Committee is concerned about the effect these rebasing and relocation actions will have on communities, particularly their local school districts and economic infrastructure. Therefore, the Committee directs the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to assess the combined incremental economic impact of DoD’s base closure, Army transformation, and IGPBS initiatives on those military installations undergoing major realignments by receiving significant numbers of new personnel. This GAO analysis should include information regarding, but not limited to, the projected number and percentage increase in student enrollment, and the economic impact which may result from increased student enrollment. The GAO is encouraged to work with relevant Federal, state, and local agencies to develop its findings. The Committee intends to work with the GAO to develop the specific parameters and process for this analysis which shall be provided to the Committee not later than February 15, 2007.”
05.01.2006	Washington, D.C. Today, Congressman Sanford Bishop will argue for the inclusion of his "Healthy Troops"Act, as an amendment to the Defense Authorization Bill (H.R. 5122). Introduced last as H.R. 4346 in the 108th Congress, the Healthy Troops amendment clarifies Congress' 1997 mandate (PL 105-85, 10 U.S.C. § 1074f) that DoD provide full hands-on pre- and post- deployment medical exams for all deployed troops, as opposed to the self-administered questionnaires that are currently distributed to troops pursuant to DoD protocol, in violation of Congress’ clear mandate, and current law. The Healthy Troops language is supported by The Military Coalition and the 35 Veterans Service Organizations (VSOs) which the Coalition represents, including: Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW); American Veterans (AMVETS); Disabled American Veterans (DAV); Blinded Veterans Association (BVA); among many others. “If members of the Rules Committee are as I am, they have thousands of open veterans claims in our district offices – many of which are attributable to the a lack of information, at the pre- and post- deployment stages, establishing a health “baseline,” so the VA can determine whether ailments are the result of a pre-existing conditions, or are in-fact service-connected disabilities” stated Congressman Bishop. “My amendment would significantly close that gap by mandating that real medical personnel administer medical exams, as opposed to the troops themselves. The result would be less backlog, and greater military efficiency by only deploying troops that are medically suitable for combat service” Bishop continued, “I implore the Rules Committee to exercise reasoned and compassionate judgment, to make this amendment in order.” The 1997 law was passed after many veterans of Operation Desert Storm were denied disability claims for what has become known as “Gulf War Syndrome.” Without pre- and post-war documentation it was impossible for veterans of the first Gulf War to prove that their deployment had in fact caused their symptoms. Without verification that symptoms are war-related, claims for medical compensation are denied. If the Rules Committee approves Congressman Bishop’s request, the Healthy Troops Amendment will move to the House floor for a vote on its inclusion in H.R. 5122.
05.01.2006	Washington , D.C. - Congressman Sanford Bishop, a Member of the House Appropriations Committee announced that the fiscal year 2007 Agricultural Appropriations Bill contains more than $6.6 million in research and conservation programs for Georgia ’s 2nd Congressional District. The funding includes: $704,635 for Water Use Reduction in Dawson; $586,215 for Water Resources Management in Tifton; $603,409 for Pecan Scab Research in Byron; $882,000 for research on agricultural water quality at the Georgia Soil and Water Commission and $131,799 for Peanut Research in Dawson. The Agriculture Appropriations Act for FY 2007 provides $94.79 billion in mandatory and discretionary spending for the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), and other related agencies. This includes $25.7 billion for the Commodity Credit Corporation, $2.4 billion in rural development programs, $1.1 billion for agricultural research and $37.9 billion to fund food stamps. The Appropriations Bill is nearly $7 billion small than last year’s version, but is $190 million over the Administration’s request. “This bill funds the crop support programs that are vital to our peanut and cotton farmers. Our agricultural tradition literally forms the backbone of South West Georgia and the Agricultural Appropriations Bill that sent out of committee today goes a long way towards ensuring its continued strength,” said Congressman Bishop. “Not only are we expanding our crop and livestock production, but we are taking important steps to protect the environment, by conserving our precious natural resources. This is a bill that we can truly be proud of.”
05.01.2006	Washington, D.C. - Today, Congressman Sanford Bishop, a Member of the House Appropriations Committee announced that $1,500,000 was included in the fiscal year 2007 Department of the Interior, Environment and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill to fund infrastructure improvements for Albany and Valdosta. The Interior Appropriations Bill funds the Department of the Interior, the Environmental Protection Agency and other related agencies including, the Forest Service, the Indian Health Service, the Smithsonian Institution and the National Foundation on the Arts and Humanities. The bill includes $1,000,000 for the City of Albany’s “Interceptor pipeline upgrade to the sewer system. Additionally, the bill includes $500,000 for water and waste water infrastructure improvements in the City of Valdosta. “One of the greatest challenges our urban centers face in southwest Georgia is a declining infrastructure. These two projects will aid tremendously in renovating and improving the water and sewer systems in these communities,” stated Congressman Bishop. Another $500,000 is included in the bill for the Georgia Streambank Restoration project. Working with private landowners on non-government lands, the $500,000 will fund a cooperative agreement between the Department of the Interior and the Georgia Soil and Water Conservation Commission. The program will provide incentives for landowners to implement best practices intended to accelerate the restoration and protection of Georgia’s valuable waters. “We are fortunate to have a reliable and abundant natural water supply in Southwest Georgia, to drink, to enjoy with our families and to sustain our agriculture,” said Congressman Bishop. “Continue funding for this project is critical to preserving this tremendous natural resource for us and for our future generations.” The FY07 Interior Appropriations bill was approved by the full Appropriations Committee by voice vote, and is expected to be considered by the full House of Representatives next week.
05.01.2006	Washington, D.C. Today, Congressman Sanford Bishop, a Member of the House Appropriations Committee announced that nearly $370 million in military construction and related funding will be headed to Georgia’s Second Congressional District in the fiscal year 2007 Military Quality of Life and Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies Appropriations bill, which was approved by the full House Appropriations Committee today. The Marine Corps Logistics Base at Albany is designated to receive $4,960,000 for construction of a Combat Vehicle Warehouse, and $66,000,000 to complete land acquisition at Blount Island. Additionally, the bill provides $2,000,000 for the creation of a new Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) “Center of Excellence” at Phoebe Putney Hospital in Albany, Ga. “This funding is vital to maintaining and improving our military installations and to meeting our ever expanding mission,” said Congressman Bishop. “I was particularly gratified that the Committee supported our efforts to increase the attention and resources provided to address post traumatic stress disorder in southwest Georgia. This is a growing challenge, particularly among our troops returning from the Middle East, and it is important that we provide all the support they need in this area. Creating a PTSD Center of Excellence at Phoebe Putney Hospital should prove to be a tremendous asset for our military families who reside in southwest Georgia and the community at large.” Most of the projected $300,000,000 for Ft. Benning construction will result from financial resources which are expected to be generated under the recently approved Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) process in FY07. The final BRAC new construction plan developed by the Department of Defense for Ft. Benning must still be approved by the full House and Senate, and is subject to change.
05.01.2006	Washington, D.C. Congressman Sanford Bishop, a Member of the House Appropriations Committee, expressed his disappointment with the action taken today by the House Republican Leadership and the Chairman of the House Agriculture Committee that stripped language from the Fiscal Year 2007 Agricultural Appropriations bill, which would have extended the peanut storage and handling fee program through Fiscal Year 2007. “I am very disappointed that my colleagues on the House Agriculture Committee, using a procedural technicality in our House rules, moved to reject language we authored in the Appropriations Committee, to extend the peanut storage and handling fee program. Without this extension, the program could be dangerously close to ending at the end of this year, which could prove disastrous for most of our peanut growers and processors here in the Second Congressional District,” Congressman Bishop said. “This was an important step in continuing a program which is critical to one of Georgia’s most important agriculture assets, the Peanut Industry.” The program, which was created under the 2002 Farm bill, will expire at the end of Fiscal Year 2006 without action by Congress. The original language was inserted into the FY07 Agriculture Appropriations bill by Congressman Bishop and Congressman Jack Kingston, both members of the Appropriations Committee.
05.01.2006	ALBANY, Ga.– Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. and the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation (CBCF), in collaboration with AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals and General Mills, will host the Black Health Empowerment Project (BHEP), a national obesity education and health promotion initiative designed to educate African Americans about the relationship between obesity and chronic health conditions, on Saturday, May 27, 2006. BHEP will be held at Albany State University to bring together civic leaders, health experts and members of the community to discuss this growing public health crisis affecting adults and youth alike. The event is free and open to the public. An estimated 77% of African American women and 61% of African American men are considered overweight or obese. Reflecting on this startling statistic, Congressman Bishop stated, “Obesity is a problem that affects individuals from all walks of life. It is my hope that through education, people will understand the importance of healthy living practices. This event will be the first step towards attacking the obesity epidemic in the Second Congressional District.” The format of the community health event moderated by Darrell Sabbs, health educator, Phoebe Putney Memorial Hospital and Ce Ce Morris, on-air personality, V105 FM, will include the Healthy Living Talk Show; cooking and fitness demonstrations; nutritious food tasting; health seminars; and giveaways. Youth Becoming Healthy, community partner for the event, will offer a number of fun activities for children and the young at heart. A host of exhibitors will provide vital health-enhancing information to attendees as well as free health screenings. “The overall health of African Americans has reached a critical state,” said CBCF President Dr. Don Tharpe. “As a nonprofit organization dedicated to effecting positive and sustainable change in the African American community, CBCF has taken on the task of educating its constituency about the lifestyle changes we must make to build and sustain healthy families and healthy communities,” he added. The BHEP initiative signals a partnership between the public and private sectors—a collaboration that is crucial to fighting the obesity epidemic. Included among the experts participating in the event will be Dr. Tania Smith, Albany Area Primary Health Care, East Albany Pediatrics; Dr. Devell Young, Medical Associates of Albany; Jacqueline Jenkins, Southwest Health District; Denise Ballard, Southwest Georgia Cancer Coalition; Lula Hutchinson, Palmyra Medical Center; and Lindsey Williams, Celebrity chef and grandson of Sylvia Woods. “We must all be committed to improving the health of our communities, and the BHEP initiative is a perfect example of that commitment,” said Rich Buckley, vice president of government affairs for AstraZeneca. “AstraZeneca is dedicated to providing individuals with the information and tools that will empower families to take charge of their health.” The event will be held at Albany State University, ACAD Building, 504 College Drive, Albany, Ga. from 9:30 a.m. – 3 p.m. Albany will be the third stop on the 2006 tour, which is expected to visit several cities across the country. For additional information about this BHEP event, call (866) 447-7103 or visit the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation’s web site at www.cbcfinc.org. ### Established in 1976, the Foundation is a nonprofit, nonpartisan public policy, research and educational institute focused on leadership education, public health, economic development and African globalism.
05.01.2006	Washington D.C. - Congressman Sanford Bishop, a member of the House Appropriations Committee, helped shape the bill, which passed by a vote of 378 to 46. “I am very pleased that the House voted to continue to support our Nation’s vital agricultural programs,” Congressman Bishop said. “America lives or dies on the backs of our farmers. I am proud of the work they do for us every day and it is my honor to fight for them in Congress. Although this bill is not perfect, I vow to continue in my efforts to make our agriculture programs more helpful to farmers in Georgia and across America.” The bill includes more than $7.1 million in research and conservation programs for Georgia’s 2nd Congressional District and surrounding communities. The funding includes: $704,635 for Water Use Reduction in Dawson; $586,215 for Water Resources Management in Tifton; $603,409 for Pecan Scab Research in Byron; $882,000 for research on agricultural water quality at the Georgia Soil and Water Commission and $131,799 for Peanut Research in Dawson. The Agriculture Appropriations Act for FY 2007 provides $94.79 billion in mandatory and discretionary spending for the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), and other related agencies. This includes $25.7 billion for the Commodity Credit Corporation, $2.4 billion in rural development programs, $1.1 billion for agricultural research and $37.9 billion to fund food stamps. The Appropriations bill is nearly $7 billion smaller than last year’s version, but is $190 million over the Administration’s request. “Our agricultural tradition literally forms the backbone of South West Georgia and the Agricultural Appropriations bill that we passed last night goes a long way towards ensuring its continued strength,” said Congressman Bishop. “Not only are we expanding our crop and livestock production, but we are taking important steps to protect the environment, by conserving our precious natural resources. This is a bill that we can truly be proud of.”
05.01.2006	WASHINGTON, D.C. Today, Congressman Sanford Bishop, a member of the House Appropriations Committee, announced that the House of Representatives passed the Energy & Water Development Appropriations Act for FY07. Bishop, who helped to craft the bill, voted for its passage last night. The final vote was 404 to 20. Funding provided by this bill includes $2,000,000 for the Army Corps of Engineers to restore the Chattahoochee fall line ecosystem. The Committee also provided $900,000 for the Corps of Engineers to control the growth of hydrilla in Lake Seminole. Congressman Bishop, along with the members of the entire Georgia Delegation, successfully removed a provision from the bill which would have prohibited the Army Corps of Engineers from revising the guides used by the Corps to manage the entire river and water system for the Apalachicola, Chattahoochee, Flint River Basin, and related water resources. Congressman Bishop said, "I was very pleased to join with my other 12 Georgia colleagues, in what was a truly bi-partisan effort to remove language from this bill, which would have stopped the Corps of Engineers from updating its management plans for the Chattahoochee and Flint Rivers.” He went on, "It was a moment of which all Georgians should be very proud, as we helped to secure critical funding for our native rivers.” The amendment, which by a vote of passed 206 to 201, will allow the Army Corps of Engineers to update its management of the system, which includes the Chattahoochee, Flint, Alabama, Catoosa, Tallapoosa, and Apalachicola Rivers. The original Committee bill contained language which would have interfered with the Corps’ federally authorized purpose to manage these complex reservoir systems, Further, Congress would have been inserting itself into a three state negotiations on state water rights as well. Remarking about one of the local projects included in the Energy Appropriations bill, Bishop said, “The Chattahoochee River represents a major untapped resource for recreation, tourism and related activity in the Columbus metropolitan area. However, without Federal assistance, much of the River’s potential will be lost. More importantly, returning the river to its natural state is expected to serve as a tremendous boost to economic development and tourism in Southwest Georgia.” The Energy and Water bill also provides a total of $30 billion in budget authority for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, the Department of Interior including the Bureau of Reclamation, the Department of Energy, and several Independent Agencies. This bill is $172 million below last year’s level and $546 million above the President’s request.
04.01.2006	Washington, D.C. Yesterday, Congressman Sanford D. Bishop, Jr., Representative of Georgia’s Second Congressional District, signed onto a bill sponsored by Rep. Stephanie Herseth (D-SD) prohibiting the U.S. Secretary of Agriculture from closing or relocating any Farm Service Agency (FSA) county or field office until at least one year after enactment of the next Farm bill. Congressman Bishop also has sent several letters to FSA Administrator Teresa Lasseter urging the agency to review their closing and consolidation plan. In his most recent letter, dated April 19, 2007, Congressman Bishop wrote, "I understand that our state FSA committee determined that they should use three factors in the closure/ consolidation decision-making process—shared management, proximity to another FSA office, and low workload and/or minimal staffing. I am concerned that other factors such as office efficiency, the number of farmers served, and the dollar amount of FSA payments processed in the respective FSA county office were not taken into account." Meanwhile, the allocation of funds and change in policy expected in the next Farm bill will alter the amount of work done by each FSA office. Therefore, only after the new legislation is passed and new workloads are determined could the FSA determine which offices are most efficient and which should be closed. "FSA offices are critical resources for farmers in Georgia," Bishop said. "It is important that the FSA use the most precise calculations and have the most up-to-date information in the closing of any office." The House Agriculture Committee is expected to take up the Farm bill next month.
01.01.2006	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Sanford Bishop issued the following statement on the passing of Coretta Scott King: "On behalf of the over six hundred thousand people of the Second Congressional District of Georgia, I extend our prayers and most heartfelt condolences to the family of Coretta Scott King. "Often referenced as 'the first lady of the Civil Rights Movement,' Mrs. King was a trailblazer, enduring unspeakable racism, violence and ultimately the loss of her husband in pursuit of equality and justice for all. Her grace and dignity in the face of overwhelming adversity inspired millions worldwide and fought the tide of hatred, which she eloquently argued 'injures the hater more than it injures the hated.' "It was my honor to have known Coretta Scott King. She was a woman of great class, faith and commitment to social justice around the world. While we mourn her passing, we celebrate her legacy that will forever live on in our continued struggle for equality and in our communities where children of every color are able to achieve the dream that her husband and she envisioned for America."
12.01.2005	WASHINGTON, DC—Congressman Sanford Bishop announced that $1.5 million has been made available to help southwest Georgia farmers conserve agricultural water supplies used for irrigation. The funding will enable farmers to build irrigation water catchments or reservoirs or make necessary improvements to existing reservoirs and provide technical assistance to the landowners. The funding also provides for maximizing the application efficiency of irrigation systems in the region. "Our ability to secure these much needed funds is a testament to the good work that continues to be done at the Georgia Soil and Water Conservation Commission,” said Bishop. “By enabling our farmers to build and improve their water catchments and reservoirs we are giving them a distinct advantage in preventing drastic yield loss. I encourage Georgia farmers to take advantage of this very important program." Applications for the program will be accepted between September 1 and September 30 of this year. The program, which is administered by the Georgia Soil and Water Conservation Commission, provides financial assistance to landowners striving to conserve water on their operations. The reservoirs serve as water catchments that retain rainwater for irrigation purposes. Providing such surface water solutions that utilize rainwater supplies decreases the demand for drilling wells into the aquifer. In addition, maximizing application efficiency of irrigation systems will enable farmers to more accurately irrigate crops. “We are extremely grateful for Congressman Bishop’s efforts on behalf of Georgia farmers,” said Garland Thompson, Chairman of the Georgia Soil and Water Conservation Commission. “The Commission looks forward to implementing this year’s program and continuing to enable farmers to conserve irrigation supplies.” The funds are available as a cost-share agreement between the Conservation Commission and landowners. Landowners will provide 25 percent of the cost of the project, while the Conservation Commission will fund the remaining 75 percent, not to exceed $50,000, of the estimated cost as determined by the USDA Natural Resources Conservation Service. Funding on a 75/25 percent basis is also available for making upgrades to irrigation systems in order to improve water application uniformity and to prevent off-site water application. Applications and program information are available at the local office of the Georgia Soil and Water Conservation Commission at 4334 Albany Hwy, Dawson or at USDA Service Centers in southwest Georgia. Please contact the Soil and Water Conservation Commission at (229) 995-6001 for a listing of counties eligible for the program. Applications received after September 30, 2004 will not be considered for the program.
11.01.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. Today, Congressman Sanford Bishop, a member of the House Appropriations Committee, announced that the House of Representatives approved H.R. 2419, the Energy & Water Development Appropriations Act for FY06, which includes $2.5 million for the Army Corps of Engineers to dredge and maintain the Apalachiacola, Chattahoochee, and Flint Rivers. "This funding is important for southwest Georgians as dredging will increase commerce opportunities on our rivers, while enhancing the recreational value of our natural resources," said Congressman Bishop. "The bill also includes funding for a range of biological and environmental research programs to take shape throughout the state of Georgia. These programs will play a significant role in preparing our economy and our environment for the challenging road ahead." One of ten appropriations bills that assign discretionary funding for each of the federal government's agencies, H.R. 2419 provides $30.5 billion for FY06 for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, the Department of Interior, the Department of Energy, and several Independent Agencies. Passing the House of Representatives, it will now go to the full Senate for passage and then be sent to President Bush for his signature and enactment into law.
11.01.2005	Experts will help Medicare beneficiaries and their advocates navigate new law ALBANY, GEORGIA. Tuesday, November 15, 2005, Medicare beneficiaries will be invited to enroll in a Medicare Prescription Drug Plan. For many, especially low-income seniors with high prescription drug costs, signing up for a Medicare Prescription Drug Plan could mean substantial savings. Unfortunately, with dozens of different plans for Georgians to choose from, the process of selecting a plan can be both confusing and intimidating. Therefore, on Monday, November 14, Congressman Sanford Bishop will be hosting a town hall forum to explain the new benefit and help Medicare beneficiaries and their advocates learn what choices may be right for them and the communities that they serve. The town hall forum will include expert panelists from the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS), Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America (PhARMA) and the National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare. Volunteers from Georgia Cares will also be on hand to provide individual assistance. Seniors are therefore encouraged to bring a list of their prescriptions or their pillboxes to the forum, so that volunteers can provide assistance in selecting the plan that will best meet their individual needs. Medicare beneficiaries as well as healthcare workers and senior advocates are encouraged to attend the forum. More information is available at https://bishop.house.gov or by calling (202) 225-3631 or (229) 439-8067. Who: Residents of Georgia's Second Congressional District What: Town Hall Forum to discuss the new Medicare Prescription Drug Plans When: 10:30 AM, Monday, November 14, 2005 Where: Albany Senior Center, 311 Pine Avenue, Albany, Georgia 31701
11.01.2005	Washington, D.C. - Today, Congressman Sanford Bishop, a member of the House Appropriations Committee announced that more than $36.1 million has been earmarked for Georgia's Second Congressional District in the 2006 Military Quality of Life and Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill (H.R. 2528) The funding includes $20.961 million for a Combined Arms Collective Training Facility at Fort Benning, where additional funds have been assigned for an infantry platoon battle course, two shoot houses to train both general infantry and special-forces and a squad defense range. The Marine Corps Logistics Base at Albany will also be growing as $5.84 million was assigned for the construction of a combat vehicle maintenance and preservation facility and a much needed satellite fire station. "These projects are vital to maintaining and improving our military installations and to meeting our ever expanding mission," said Congressman Bishop. "I am proud to have helped secure this funding, that underscores the important role that both Fort Benning and the Albany Marine Corps Logistics Base play in our nation's defense." The Military Quality of Life and Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies Subcommittee, of which Congressman Bishop is a member, oversees appropriations for the military quality of life functions of the Department of Defense, military construction, the Department of Veterans Affairs and related agencies. The conference report, which passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 427 to 0, provides $22.55 billion for medical services for both active duty military as well as veterans and includes $6.21 billion for military construction projects. "I am proud to sit on the subcommittee responsible for the quality of life of our many brave men and women, who have served and who continue to serve their country in uniform," said Congressman Bishop. "As George Washington once said, the morale of our nation's troops is based on the way we treat our veterans. By increasing funding for veteran's health care, this bill takes a step in the right direction. We must continue on that path." Following passage by the House of Representatives, H.R. 2528 will now go to the full Senate for passage and then be sent to President Bush for his signature and enactment into law. 2nd District projects included in the Military Quality of Life and Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies Appropriations bill: Ft. Benning: Combined Arms Collective Training Facility $20.961 Infantry Platoon Battle Course $4.3 Light Infantry Shoot House $1.25 Special Operations Command Shoot House $1.7 Squad Defense Range $2.05 MCLB: Combat Vehicle Maintenance and Preservation Facility $4.0 Satellite Fire Station $1.84 Total $36.101
11.01.2005	ALBANY, GEORGIA. During the week of Monday, November 28 through Friday December 2, 2005 Congressman Sanford Bishop and the Medicare Bus will be touring the Second Congressional District of Georgia, with representatives from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) and Georgia Cares to help Medicare beneficiaries navigate the new Medicare Prescription Drug Plans. "Our previous town hall meeting revealed an overwhelming demand for practical advice in selecting a prescription drug plan," said Congressman Bishop. "With the state of the art Medicare bus and eight locations throughout the district, these information sessions should provide the level of counseling that seniors and Medicare beneficiaries are looking for." The program will provide an overview of the new Medicare Prescription Drug Plans, as well as an opportunity for beneficiaries to get individual assistance in selecting their plans. Seniors should bring their Medicare cards and a list of their prescriptions or their pillboxes to the forum. They should also be prepared to consider their drug costs as well as preferred pharmacies and providers. The information and sign-up sessions will be held inside the following locations, where the bus will be on-hand: Monday, November 28, 2005 9:00 AM - 12:00 PM, Albany, Georgia Albany Technical College, Kirkland Conference Center, 1704 S. Slappey Boulevard, Albany, Georgia 2:00 PM - 5:00 PM, Moultrie, Georgia Moultrie Technical College, 361 Industrial Drive, Moultrie, GA. 31788 Wednesday, November 30, 2005 9:00 AM - 12:00 PM, Thomasville, Georgia Southwest Georgia Technical College, 15689 U.S. HWY 19 North, Building A, Room 132, Thomasville, Georgia 2:00 PM - 5:00 PM, Valdosta, Georgia Valdosta State University, Magnolia Room, 1500 North Patterson Street, Valdosta, Georgia Thursday, December 1, 2005 9:00 AM - 12:00 PM, Bainbridge, Georgia AGRI-Center - Fairgrounds, Chamber #1 Building, 1213 Vada Road, Bainbridge, Georgia 2:00 PM - 5:00 PM, Cairo, Georgia AGRI-Center Farmers Market, 65 11th Ave, Cairo, Georgia Friday December 2, 2005 9:30 AM - 12:30 PM, Columbus, Georgia Chattahoochee Valley Regional Public Library - Main Branch, 3000 Macon Road, Columbus, Georgia. 2:30 PM - 5:30 PM, Americus, Georgia Georgia Southwestern University, Continuing Education Center, Room 100, 801 Wheatley Street, Americus, Georgia 31709 Medicare beneficiaries as well as healthcare workers and senior advocates are encouraged to attend the forum. More information is available at https://bishop.house.gov or during normal business hours call, (Albany office) (229) 439-8067, (Columbus office) (706) 320-9477 or (Valdosta office) (229)247-9705, after business hours you may call, (229) 886-4776 or (703)795-6632.
11.01.2005	Washington D.C.- Teaming up with the Medicare Bus and representatives from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), Congressman Bishop held the first two of eight "Medicare Prescription Drug Information and Sign-up Sessions" Monday at the Albany and Moultrie Technical Colleges. More than two hundred seniors turned out for the sessions, which those in attendance called "informative" and "helpful." "I recommend this for every senior citizen," said Lucy Poe of Albany, Georgia. The events featured presentations by Gaetana Marshall, the Georgia State lead for the CMS and Karla Jones a CMS pharmacist. Following the initial program, seniors were invited to meet with one of seven counselors from CMS and Georgia Cares to learn what plan, if any, would best meet their individual needs. "If your coverage is as good as Medicare's…you don't need to make a decision. You have something," explained Gaetana Marshall. "But if you don't [have coverage as good as Medicare's] that's when we start to look at people and say 'this is the time frame you have to make a decision.' And there's plenty of time." The Information and Sign-Up Sessions continue Wednesday in Thomasville and Valdosta. (A complete list of sessions and locations is below.) Charles Stripling, of Leary, attended Monday's session in Albany after having gone to two previous information sessions put on by the Social Security Administration and the state, said, "I had to attend the third before I ever got clarity on it. This one is the one that helped me the most." View the Power Point Presentation from the enrollment and sign-up sessions. The information and sign-up sessions will be held at the following locations: Wednesday, November 30, 2005 9:00 AM - 12:00 PM, Thomasville, Georgia Southwest Georgia Technical College, 15689 U.S. HWY 19 North, Building A, Room 132, Thomasville, Georgia 2:00 PM - 5:00 PM, Valdosta, Georgia Valdosta State University, Magnolia Room, 1500 North Patterson Street, Valdosta, Georgia Thursday, December 1, 2005 9:00 AM - 12:00 PM, Bainbridge, Georgia AGRI-Center - Fairgrounds, Chamber #1 Building, 1213 Vada Road, Bainbridge, Georgia 2:00 PM - 5:00 PM, Cairo, Georgia AGRI-Center Farmers Market, 65 11th Ave, Cairo, Georgia Friday December 2, 2005 9:30 AM - 12:30 PM, Columbus, Georgia Chattahoochee Valley Regional Public Library - Main Branch, 3000 Macon Road, Columbus, Georgia. 2:30 PM - 5:30 PM, Americus, Georgia Georgia Southwestern University, Continuing Education Center, Room 100, 801 Wheatley Street, Americus, Georgia 31709
09.01.2005	Congressman applauds relief efforts at Fort Benning as he urges constituents to work with the American Red Cross. COLUMBUS, GEORIGIA. As the toll of death and devastation continues to rise in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, Congressman Sanford Bishop recognized the tremendous effort at Fort Benning, which is both deploying personnel to the affected regions as part of Joint Task Force Katrina and making room for displaced military personnel from Camp Shelby, MS and other locations. Currently six MEDIVAC helicopters have been deployed to the devastation zone in New Orleans and additional units are awaiting orders, building food and fuel supplies that will be critical to keeping rescue efforts alive. “We need to be proud of our men and women serving at Fort Benning, who are volunteering in record numbers to join the relief effort,” said Congressman Bishop. “Their efforts are critical to coordinating and conducting one the biggest rescue efforts in our history and we will do whatever is in our power to support that mission.” Officials at Fort Benning are also transporting displaced citizens from the affected regions to Red Cross shelters throughout the Columbus region, where individuals who want to help are being directed. “The Red Cross is asking for monetary donations to provide relief for the affected regions and volunteers to support the shelters here in Columbus, Albany and Valdosta. I know that many in Southwest Georgia are looking for ways to help. The best way to help is to give to the Red Cross,” said Congressman Bishop. Red Cross officials continue to advise that monetary donations are the best way to aid the relief effort. While gifts of clothes and food are appreciated, there is currently no way effectively to store and distribute these donations. For information on how to volunteer or make a donation, contact your local Red Cross chapter listed below. “Here in Southwest Georgia, we have been on the receiving end of our nation’s generosity and outpouring of support in the wake of disaster,” said Congressman Bishop. “Now it is our turn to be good neighbors and good citizens. It is our turn to aid those in need and to show mercy on those who have lost so much. Please give what you can. Lives are depending on it.” ALBANY American Red Cross Southwest Georgia Chapter 500 Pine Ave Albany, GA 31701 Phone: 229-436-4845 E-mail: ' ); document.write( addy28706 ); document.write( '<\/a>' ); //--> arcalbany@isoa.net ' ); //--> This e-mail address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it ' ); //--> Web site: https://home.isoa.net/~arcalbany/ COLUMBUS: American Red Cross West Central Georgia Chapter 3940 Rosemont Dr Columbus, GA 31904-5626 Phone: 706-323-5614 E-mail: ' ); document.write( addy2192 ); document.write( '<\/a>' ); //--> wcgredcross@wcgredcross.org ' ); //--> This e-mail address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it ' ); //--> Web site: https://www.wcgredcross.org VALDOSTA American Red Cross Valdosta Chapter 527 N. Patterson Street, Second Floor Valdosta, GA 31601 Phone: 229-242-7404 E-mail: ' ); document.write( addy21462 ); document.write( '<\/a>' ); //--> vredcross@bellsouth.net ' ); //--> This e-mail address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it ' ); //--> Web site: https://www.valdostaredcross.org
09.01.2005	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sanford Bishop proudly announces that this evening he will be presenting his constituent, Pamela Green-Jackson the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) Spouses Unsung Hero award, for her ongoing and tireless efforts to combat childhood obesity. Having lost her only brother, Bernard, to obesity related illnesses in February, 2004, Ms. Jackson is one of the nation’s leaders in inspiring young people to take action and make life-saving positive choices. The Youth Becoming Healthy Project (YBH), that Pamela Jackson founded, began as an idea to educate students on the importance of eating healthy and exercising by providing newspaper supplements as part of the Newspapers in Education program. Yet since its inception, Ms. Jackson’s vision and ability to partner with the private sector has led YBH in the creation and launch of three fitness centers, at Dougherty Middle School, Radium Middle School and Albany Middle School, where students have an opportunity for safe, physical activity in an inspirational health club setting. In December 2004, after having left her job at the Albany Herald to pursue her activism full time, Pamela was hired as the State Coordinator for Georgia on the Move, a program of GPAN (Georgia Coalition of Physical Activity & Nutrition). America on the Move is a national program aimed at reducing the epidemic of obesity by promoting two small daily lifestyle changes: increasing the number of steps taken each day by 2000 and reducing calories consumed by 100 per day. Georgia currently ranks #6 in the nation’s obesity epidemic. “Pamela Jackson, was our nominee for the unsung hero award, not only because of the impact that she is making in our community, but because her ability to turn a tremendous personal crisis into such a positive force is truly an inspiration to each and every one of us,” said Congressman Bishop.“Many people talk about making a difference, Pamela Green-Jackson is making a difference.” Sponsored by the CBC Spouses Organization, which is chaired by the Honorable Vivian Creighton Bishop, the Unsung Hero Awards Program recognizes those individuals who have made a noteworthy impact in their communities. These heroes are committed to improving the quality of life for people in our society and will receive their awards at a star-studded awards ceremony this evening during the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation’s Annual Legislative Conference. “I am so honored and humbled by my selection as an "Unsung Hero,” said Pamela Green-Jackson, “When I began this mission in memory of my brother, I had no idea that it would gain this much attention. I am just trying to make a difference.” Pamela attended Albany State University where she majored in Marketing and graduated from LaGrange College with a BA degree in Organizational Leadership. She will attend Troy State University to pursue a Masters Degree in Leadership & Organizational Effectiveness beginning January 2006. Her future goals are to implement YBH programs across the state and continue her quest for a healthier Georgia by promoting the Georgia on the Move initiative.
09.01.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. This afternoon, Congressman Sanford Bishop announced that eight Georgia communities will receive firefighting grants from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security to enhance their abilities to respond to emergencies, including the Terrell County Fire Department and Americus Fire and Emergency Services. $228, 000 has been awarded to Terrell County for the acquisition of a new firefighting vehicle. $71,535 will go to Americus Fire and Emergency Services as part of the Department of Homeland Security’s Operations and Safety program. “The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program has been crucial in funding small localities in Southwest Georgia who are often the first and only responders in emergency situations. The importance of these funds is elevated in light of the scarcity of federal dollars in recent years,” noted Congressman Bishop. “Communities like Terrell County and the City of Americus serve our emergency needs each and every day, and we’re doing our best to ensure that they have the funds and the resources to do their job.” The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program is administered by the Department's Office for Domestic Preparedness in cooperation with the United States Fire Administration.
09.01.2005	Washington, D.C. An effort to include an emergency preparedness program for socially and economically disadvantaged communities, into the FY’06 Homeland Security Appropriation’s bill was defeated by a party line vote of 11 to 7 in the Conference Committee. Congressman Sanford Bishop (GA-02), who led the effort and who has long championed the issue, gave the following statement: “I am disappointed in my Republican colleagues’ inability to learn anything from Hurricane Katrina. Combined with the devastation of Hurricane Rita, these storms represent the worst natural disaster in the history of our nation and have opened the eyes of Americans to the crisis of poverty in the United States. Yet, somehow, my Republican colleagues remain oblivious. “Regardless of which state, local or federal officials, governments or even political parties we try to blame for the catastrophe that was the response to hurricane Katrina, you only needed to turn on the television to understand that the real culprit was our persistence in turning a blind eye to our nation’s poor. Driven from anonymity by the flood waters of Lake Pontchartrain, these brave men, women and children taught us that we can not continue to act as if that they do not exist. “We learned the hard way that evacuation plans do not work if people do not have the means to follow them. We learned that we must prepare all communities—not just the middle class and above—for disaster. We can not afford to learn the hard way again. “Over a decade ago, former Congresswoman Carrie Meeks raised the issue of emergency preparedness in minority and disadvantaged communities, after her Florida district was ravaged by hurricanes. I began lobbying for the issue, in 1994, when, as a new Congressman, I saw first hand the devastation that Hurricane Alberto inflicted, when floods drove my constituents from their homes in Albany, Newton, Bainbridge, Americus, Montezuma and Macon, Georgia. “Every year, since 2002, we have included language in first, the VA HUD Appropriations bill, and then, the Homeland Security Appropriations bill, that has directed the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to ‘research the status of emergency preparedness and disaster response awareness in African American and Hispanic households.’ Yet, every year our instructions have gone virtually ignored. Imagine how things could have been different, if FEMA had paid attention. “Today, I asked my colleagues in the Homeland Security Conference Committee to correct this wrong by implementing and funding a program to increase disaster preparedness in disadvantaged communities. Yet, my pleas were again ignored, as the measure was voted down along party lines. “If we do not take action now, when our nation is rallying for those in need, my question is: when will we take action? If in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, we have not learned the pitfalls of ignoring the issue of poverty, when will we learn them? If we can not put aside small-minded partisanship in the wake of our nation’s worst natural disaster, when will we ever put it aside?”
07.01.2005	Washington, D.C. - Yesterday Congressman Sanford Bishop joined his colleagues on the House Appropriations Committee in passing the FY05 Defense Appropriation’s bill, which includes more the $196.87 million for defense projects in the second congressional district. $132.7 million will go to the Albany Marine Corps Logistics Base for the development and retrofitting of Amphibious Assault Vehicles being used in Iraq and $1.5 million for the replacement of outdated sewer lines on the Albany base. $4 million was appropriated to construct Fort Benning’s Sunshine Road Ammunition Route. “The FY05 Defense Appropriations bill clearly demonstrates our overall commitment to our men and women in uniform and the global war on terror,” said Congressman Sanford Bishop. “Unfortunately all of the projects that we fought for did not receive funding. For example, we sought $5.7 million for the National Infantry Museum at Fort Benning, but the Committee was unwilling to approve a museum project. We will not give up this fight and will be working with our senators to secure approval in the Senate bill.” The Defense Appropriations bill is one of thirteen appropriations bills that assign discretionary funding for each of the federal government’s agencies. After passing the House Appropriations Committee, the Defense Appropriations bill will now move to the House floor for approval by the entire House of Representatives. After passing the House, it will go to a conference where differences with the Senate version will be reconciled. “This is a significant investment in the 2nd Congressional District that recognizes the important contribution that our area’s military bases have made and will continue to make to our national defense,” said Congressman Bishop. Included in the Defense Appropriations bill are: • $1.5 Million to replace sewer lines at the Albany Marine Corps Logistics Base. • $132.7 Million for Marine Amphibious Assault Vehicles at the Albany Marine Corps Logistics Base. • $58.67 Million for a Wind Corrected Munitions Dispenser produced by Lockheed Martin in Americus, GA. • $4 Million for the Ft. Benning Sunshine Road Ammunition Route.
07.01.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. On Sunday, July 17, Congressman Sanford Bishop led a delegation of Georgians at the Washington National Cathedral where he served as Georgia’s flag-bearer during Georgia State Day, a worship service celebrating the people and leaders of the Peach State. More than 250 people traveled from Georgia (or were natives of the state now living in the Washington Area) to join the nearly 1,000 congregants at the Washington National Cathedral, where the nation has celebrated presidential inaugurals, mourned the death of leaders at state funerals and marked tragedies like the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks. The combined choirs of St. Thomas Episcopal Church in Columbus and St. Mark’s Episcopal Church of Lagrange performed a half-hour musical prelude, which included Georgia-flavored spirituals and psalms, one written by Hamilton Smith, an Atlanta based composer. The Rev. Dr. Joanna M. Adams, pastor of Morningside Presbyterian Church in Atlanta, served as guest preacher and delivered a moving sermon in which she urged the congregation to ponder the parable in which an enemy sows weeds amidst a farmer’s wheat. She preached that the parable’s message of tolerance can be reflected in the everyday lives of Georgian’s as well as the public policy decisions of national and international leaders. (The full text of the sermon is available at www.cathedral.org.) The Right Rev. Henry I. Louittit, Bishop of the Savannah-based Episcopal Diocese of Georgia, celebrated the Eucharist. Following the service, Congressman Bishop addressed the crowd of Georgians at a reception held in the state’s honor. He read a proclamation from Governor Sonny Perdue and presented a certificate of Special Congressional Recognition. “In our area, I tell my colleagues in Congress we believe in God, country, work and family,” Congressman Bishop said. “Those are our values and certainly this day has represented that.” Other Georgians played roles at the service. Brent Taylor of Saint Simons Island, read Scripture. Tuyet Tran of Morrow, Marquette McKnight of Columbus, Eston and Peggy Ann Melton of Clayton, delivered gifts to the altar as oblation bearers. Annabelle Coyne, 6, and Madelyn Coyne, 5, of Athens, served as oblation bearers. In 1791, when Congress selected Washington, DC as the capital of the United States, President George Washington commissioned Major Pierre l’Enfant to design an overall plan for the future seat of government. Included in l’Enfant’s plan was a church, “intended for national purposes, such as public prayer, thanksgiving, funeral orations, etc., and assigned to the special use of no particular Sect or denomination, but equally open to all.” In 1893 President Benjamin Harrison signed a charter to the Protestant Episcopal Cathedral Foundation of the District of Columbia allowing it to establish a cathedral and institutions of higher learning. The first stone of the National Cathedral was laid in 1907 and construction continued for eighty-three years. Today the National Cathedral continues to serve as a place of national focus, opening its doors to people of all faiths as they gather to worship and pray, to mourn the passing of world leaders, and to confront the pressing moral and social issues of the day. As part of its national ministry, the Cathedral has for many years individually honored each state in the union, each Sunday praying for the government and people of one state, honoring every state in the union once each year. The state flag flies on the chancel steps, and at the 11 am service, special seating is reserved for State Day visitors. In January 1996, the Washington National Cathedral initiated enhanced Major State Day celebrations on the third Sunday of each month, which offers each state in the union the opportunity to participate in an expanded celebration once every four years. These celebrations offer additional opportunities for citizens of the designated state to participate more fully in the worship service and in the life of the Washington National Cathedral.
07.01.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. Congressman Sanford Bishop announced today that the Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (TEA-LU) contains $37,919,484 million over the next four years for projects in Georgia’s Second Congressional District. The long-awaited transportation bill provides funding for the nation’s highways, public transportation and safety programs through FY09. “With population in the Second Congressional District spread over twenty-seven counties and more than 11,000 square miles, improving transportation lies at the heart of our community and our efforts to bring economic development and jobs to Southwest Georgia,” said Congressman Bishop. “I am proud to announce that we were able to address many of our region’s most fundamental needs in this bill.” TEA-LU authorizes $286 billion over six years and represents the combined House and Senate versions of the bill. Having passed the House of Representatives today by a vote of 412 to 8, it moves to the Senate for approval before it is sent to the White House for final signature. SECOND DISTRICT TRANSPORTATION PROJECTS INCLUDED IN TEA-LU: 1-75 interchanges from north of Tifton to Turner County line: $4,800,000 Widen SR 133: Colquitt Co./Dougherty Co: $800,000 Widen US 280/SR 30 from east of Flint River to SR 300 Connector west of Cordele: $800,000 South Tifton Bypass from US 82/SR 520 west to US 319/SR 35 east, Tift County: $4,900,000 Leesburg North Bypass from US 19 to SR 195, Lee County: $400,000 Widen SR 234/Gillionville Road from Eight Mile Road to Lockett Station, Dougherty County: $800,000 SR 133 south bound lane bridge replacement over the Georgia Florida Railnet line, Dougherty County: $800,000 Broad Avenue Bridge: Albany: $900,000 US 27 Reconstruction from Colquitt to CR 279: $800,000 National Infantry Museum Transportation Network: $5,400,000 Construction on US 82 from Dawson to Alabama Line: $800,000 Streetscape-Bainbridge: $200,000 Streetscape-Albany: $400,000 Streetscape-Cordele: $200,000 Streetscape-Ashburn: $200,000 Streetscape-Dawson: $160,000 Streetscape-Thomasville: $240,000 Streetscape-Richland: $160,000 Streetscape-Quitman: $160,000 Phase III Streetscape-Columbus: $800,000 Uptown- CSU Trolley Shuttle, Jogging, Bicycle trail-Columbus: $800,000 South Lumpkin Road Trail-Columbus: $400,000 SR 133 widening and improvements from Moultrie to Valdosta: $2,000,000 SR 133 from Spence filed to SR 35 in Colquitt, CO GA: $1,600,000 Reconstruct the interchange at I85 and Victory Drive (SR 520), Columbus, GA: $1,444,800 City of Sylvester bicycle and pedestrian Project: $400,000 Improve Sidewalks, upgrade lighting and add landscaping, Tifton: $750,000 Improve Sidewalks and curbs on Wheeler Avenue and Carlos Avenue, Ashburn: $500,000 City of Moultrie streetscape improvements, Phase III: $750,000 Commission a study regarding construction of a new interstate linking Augusta, Macon, Columbus, Montgomery and Natchez: $1,080,000 Bus project-Quitman, Clay, Randolph, Stewart Co: $209,000 Multimodal Facility, Albany: $668,800 Bus Replacement- Thomasville: $167,200 Intermodal Facility- Sylvester: $167,200 Bus replacement for Albany: $250,800 Bus replacement for Columbus: $250,800 Intermodal facility for Moultrie: $250,800 Columbus GA Buses and Bus facilities: $810,084 National Infantry Museum. Columbus Georgia/Phenix City, Alabama. National Infantry Museum Multimodal Facility: $1,700,000 TOTAL: $37,919,484
06.01.2005	Washington, D.C. Congressman Sanford Bishop, a Member of the House Appropriations Committee announced that the fiscal year 2006 Agricultural Appropriations Bill contains more than $6.8 million in research and conservation programs for Georgia’s 2nd Congressional District. The funding includes: $3.7 million for the Georgia Soil and Water Commission; $470,000 for the study of water use efficiency and water quality enhancements at the University of Georgia’s Tifton Campus; $891,000 for research on agricultural water policy at Albany State University and $508,000 for the study of children’s chronic disease at the Children’s Nutritional Research Center at Baylor University. The Agriculture Appropriations Act for FY 2006 (H.R.2744) provides $100.3 billion in mandatory and discretionary spending for the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), and other related agencies. This includes $25.7 billion for the Commodity Credit Corporation, $2.4 billion in rural development programs, $1.1 billion for agricultural research and $40.7 billion to fund food stamps. H.R. 2744 represents an 11 percent increase in spending over current funding levels and is $190 million over the Administration’s request. “This bill funds the crop support programs that are vital to our peanut and cotton farmers. Our agricultural tradition literally forms the backbone of South West Georgia and the Agricultural Appropriations Bill that we passed today goes a long way towards ensuring its continued strength,” said Congressman Bishop. “Not only are we expanding our crop and livestock production, but we are taking important steps to protect the environment, by conserving our precious natural resources. This is a bill that we can truly be proud of.” H.R.2477 passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 408 to 18 late last night. Once the Senate passes its version of the bill, the House and Senate will meet in conference to resolve differences between their respective recommendations. Projects included in the Agricultural Appropriations Bill: COOPERATIVE STATE RESEARCH EXTENSION AND EDUCATION SERVICES Water Use Efficiency & Water Quality Enhancements, UGA - Tifton: $470,000 Fruit and Vegetable Research at UGA - Tifton $256,000 Agricultural Water Policy, Albany State University $891,000 NRCS - Conservation Operations GA Soil and Water Conservation Commission Cooperative Agreement $3,700,000 Community Nutrient Management Facilities $350,000 Game Bird Predation $625,000 Study of Chronic Diseases of Children, Children’s Nutritional Research Center, Baylor University/Peanut Institute $508,000 Total: $6,800,000
06.01.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. Today, Congressman Sanford Bishop, a Member of the House Appropriations Committee announced the fiscal year 2006 Department of Defense Appropriations Act could potentially mean more than $30 million for defense related projects in Georgia’s Second Congressional District. This includes a $22 million contract for the XM8 weapons project that Columbus’s H&K is a leading contender for and in upwards of $5 million in continued funding for the TECT Corporation in Thomasville, GA, for their subcontract work on the Boeing C-17 transport. “Not only are some of our nation’s finest military bases located in Southwest Georgia, but we are also home to some of the nation’s most outstanding defense contractors. This is why they are so competitive for government contracts and this is why this money will come back to our district,” said Congressman Bishop. The Department of Defense Appropriations Act (H.R. 2863) provides $408.9 billion, including $45.3 billion in emergency spending for operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. Funding in this bill includes: $84.13 billion for military personnel; $116.09 billion for operation and maintenance programs; $76.8 billion for procurement; and $71.65 billion for research and development programs. H.R. 2863 fully funds a 3.1 percent military pay raise. H.R. 2863, which passed the House of Representative late yesterday is one of eleven appropriations bills that assign discretionary funding for each of the federal government’s agencies. Once the Senate passes its version of the bill, the House and Senate will meet in conference to resolve differences between their respective recommendations.
06.01.2005	Washington, D.C. Congressman Sanford Bishop, a Member of the House Appropriations Committee, announced that more than a dozen 2nd District Projects were included in the House passed version of the FY’06 Science and Departments of State, Justice, Commerce, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act. Having passed the House of Representatives today, these earmarked projects will now be reviewed and designated funding when the House and Senate meet in conference to reconcile the differences between their respective bills. The projects range from after school and youth advocacy programs, to a program geared towards helping prisoners reenter society with a lowered risk of recidivism. (A complete list of 2nd District projects is included) “Each of these projects can really make a difference in our community. This is why I submitted them for funding. This is why the Subcommittee recognized their individual importance, and this is why I am confident that they will each be funded in the conference committee,” said Congressman Bishop. “The bill as a whole, goes a long way towards funding many of our critical judicial, science and small business programs that touch the lives of so many Americans.” The Science and Departments of State, Justice, Commerce, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for FY’06 (H.R. 28.62) provides a total of $57.45 billion dollars for the named departments. This includes $5.8 billion for the Federal Bureau of Investigation, $2.6 billion in assistance for state and local law enforcement agencies, $16.5 billion for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), $1.5 billion to continue worldwide security improvements and the replacement of vulnerable U.S. embassies abroad and $590 million for the Small Business Administration, in support of a record business loan program to help American entrepreneurs access capital through he certified development company program. Projects included in the Science and Departments of State, Justice, Commerce, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act: • SOWEGA – CASA, Inc. (Southwestern Georgia Judicial Circuit), Court Appointed Special Advocates; Americus, GA • Junior Marshal’s Program – Columbus, Georgia • Clay County Improvement Association (CCIA), teen center; Ft Gaines, GA • Urban League of Columbus, Youth Advocacy Program; Columbus, GA • Upgrade 911 Communications System; Miller County, GA • James Barnes Community Development Corporation, teen drug prevention and mentoring; Dawson, GA • Communities in Schools, after school; performance learning center; Albany, GA • Communities in Schools, after school; performance learning center; Sumter County; Americus, GA • Albany International Association, Prisoner Reentry Program; Albany, GA • South Georgia Olympic Youth Shooting Club, youth after school program; Colquitt County, GA • Friends with Jesus, Inc, teen after school program; Bainbridge, Ga • Reaching You, after school program; Thomasville, GA • Camp Relitso, Inc, Teen and Adult Literacy; • Office of the Sheriff/Columbus,“ A Child Is Missing/Georgia;” Columbus, GA
05.01.2005	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Sanford Bishop’s request for funding was granted when the FY’05 Supplemental Appropriations Conference funding included more then $518 million (MCLB) for the Marine Corps’ Light Armored Vehicle (LAV) program, which includes new funds to retrofit armored vehicles being used in operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. It is expected that approximately 350 LAV’s will be retrofitted at the Albany Marine Corps Logistics Base. “This money will be vital to our efforts to support our troops in harms way,” said Congressman Bishop. “And I was very pleased that my colleagues agreed that the work being done at the Marine Corps Base in Albany is vital to that mission.” The Emergency Supplemental Wartime Appropriations Act (H.R. 1268) provides $82 billion in added government funding classified as “emergency.” This total includes $75.9 billion for U.S. military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, as well as additional funding for reconstruction efforts in Afghanistan, foreign assistance, international peacekeeping and tsunami disaster relief. The bill additionally improves Traumatic Injury Protection Insurance and death benefits for service members by increasing the Service Member Group Life Insurance benefits from $250,000 to $400,000; the one time death gratuity for combat fatalities from $12,000 to $100,000 and adds a new insurance benefit of up to $100,000 for service members who suffer traumatic injuries. H.R. 1268 passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 368 – 58. It will now go to the full Senate for passage and then be sent to President Bush for his signature and enactment into law. A complete summary of H.R. 1268 is available at: https://appropriations.house.gov
05.01.2005	Stephanie Shopp, a senior at Deerfield-Windsor School is the winner of the 2005 Congressional Art Competition in Georgia’s Second District, U.S. Representative Sanford Bishop announced today. The winning entry, entitled “Hands” will be displayed for one year at the U.S. Capitol, along with the winning entries from other Congressional districts across the country. The competition for high school students is sponsored nationally by the Congressional Arts Caucus, a coalition of members of Congress who support the arts. Representative Bishop, a member of the caucus, is one of several hundred House members who annually sponsor the art competition in their districts. In addition to the winning entry, Michael Clark from Westover High School received second place recognition. “Silence ” by Joy Fulton of Albany High School came in third and Kristy Swann from Brookwood School received an honorable mention. The winning artwork will be flown to Washington, D.C., where it will be placed in an exhibit with other district winning entries in a corridor that links the U.S. House office buildings with the U.S. Capitol. Congressman Bishop said. “My colleagues and I –as well as the thousands of Capitol visitors this year—will undoubtedly enjoy Miss Shopp’s painting. Her artwork is a worthy representation of the artistic talent in Southwest Georgia. She should be proud of her accomplishment.” The national exhibit will officially open on June 14.
05.01.2005	ALBANY, GA. Upon receiving the much-anticipated list of bases scheduled for realignment and closure (BRAC), Congressman Bishop announced that the Marine Corps Logistics Base (MCLB) located in Albany, Georgia will remain open. “I could not be happier with this news, but I am not surprised,” said Congressman Bishop. “Since this most recent round of base closings was announced, my office, the Governor's office, the Albany Chamber of Commerce and community support groups have rallied to shore up support for the Marine Corps Logistics Base. We have worked hard and done well, but I have found that the exceptional job being done at MCLB speaks for itself.” Originally commissioned as the Marine Corps Depot of Supplies in 1952, MCLB Albany has proven itself as a world-class military depot with the flexibility to meet the rapidly changing needs of the U.S Marine Corps. Recently, Congress approved a supplemental appropriations bill, which funded the retrofitting of 350 land assault vehicles for use in operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. MCLB is one of Southwest Georgia's top employers, with an overall economic impact of more than $1 billion a year. Apart from the more than 516 marines stationed in Albany, 1,869 civilians work on the Marine Corps base. “MCLB is vital to our national defense and to our community. This decision not only underscores the importance of MCLB, it makes it easier to ask my colleagues on the Appropriations Committee to increase federal support for the base.” BRAC is the congressionally authorized process that the Department of Defense has used to reorganize its base structure to more “efficiently and effectively” support U.S. forces, increase operational readiness and facilitate new ways of doing business. Today’s announcement comes as the Secretary of Defense forwards his recommendations to the BRAC Commission. The commission will then forward its report on the recommendations to the president by Sept. 8, 2005.
05.01.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. Today, Congressman Sanford Bishop, a Member of the House Appropriations Committee announced that $500,000 was included in the fiscal year 2006 Department of the Interior, Environment and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill (H.R. 2361) to fund incentive programs to preserve and protect Georgia’s streams and rivers. The Interior Appropriations Bill funds the Department of the Interior, the Environmental Protection Agency and other related agencies including, the Forest Service, the Indian Health Service, the Smithsonian Institution and the National Foundation on the Arts and Humanities. Working with private landowners on non-government lands, the $500,000 will fund a cooperative agreement between the Department of the Interior and the Georgia Soil and Water Conservation Commission. The program will provide incentives for landowners to implement best practices intended to accelerate the restoration and protection of Georgia’s valuable waters. “We are fortunate to have a reliable and abundant natural water supply in Southwest Georgia, to drink, to enjoy with our families and to sustain our agriculture,” said Congressman Bishop. “This project is critical to preserving this tremendous natural resource for us and for our future generations.” H.R. 2361, which passed the House of Representative late yesterday by a vote of 329 to 89 is one of eleven appropriations bills that assign discretionary funding for each of the federal government’s agencies. Once the Senate passes its version of the bill, the House and Senate will meet in conference to resolve differences between their respective recommendations.
05.01.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. This afternoon in the House Appropriations Committee, Congressman Sanford Bishop offered an amendment to the Agriculture Appropriations Report in order to address the emergency needs of Miller, Seminole and Wayne Counties. The amendment, which was accepted by the committee and will be voted on by the full House of Representatives next month, directs the Department of Agriculture to assess the cumulative damage of last year’s devastating hurricanes as well as the recent tornadoes that have displaced families across the impacted counties. The amendment also instructs the Rural Housing Authority to give priority consideration to requests for housing assistance in these regions. “Unfortunately we can not make up for the full extent of the devastation that mother nature has caused this last year,” said Congressman Bishop, “But we are exhausting every option to get our families, our farms and our businesses the relief they so desperately need. I am pleased that my colleagues recognized this importance in accepting my amendment and I expect this support to continue when the bill reaches the House floor.” While Governor Purdue declared Miller, Seminole and Wayne Counties in a “State of Emergency” after severe weather struck last March, a federal declaration was not made. Without such a declaration of need, Federal intervention/assistance is not available. Congressman Bishop’s amendment works with the Department of Agriculture to find another means of Federal assistance through the Department’s Rural Development Agency, which helps rural individuals, communities and businesses obtain financial and technical assistance.
05.01.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. Yesterday afternoon, the “Bishop Amendment” to the FY06 National Defense Authorization Act, requiring a study into the effectiveness of self-administered pre- and post- deployment health exams, passed the House of Representatives for inclusion in the bill, which authorizes spending for the Department of Defense and the national security programs of the Department of Energy. The Bishop Amendment specifically addresses the Department of Defense’s (DoD) compliance with a 1997 law requiring that DoD perform pre- and post- deployment medical exams to determine both a service member’s fitness for combat and any health conditions that result from deployment. To comply with this mandate, the DoD is currently replacing a comprehensive medical exam with self-administered surveys. Congressman Sanford Bishop has long argued that self-administered surveys do not meet the 1997 law’s requirement of “medical exams” and in May of 2004, he introduced the “Healthy Troops Act,” which would require service members to receive a full, “hands-on,” pre- and post- deployment exam. The Bishop Amendment—which reflects a bi-partisan agreement with the House Armed Service Committee—keeps the issue alive by requiring a study into the effectiveness of the self-administered surveys currently in use. Speaking in support of his amendment, Congressman Sanford Bishop made the following statement on the House floor: “Mr. Speaker, I first introduced the “Healthy Troops Act” in May of 2004 when it was brought to my attention that many of our men and women—serving in harms way—are not receiving “hands-on” medical examinations before and after they are deployed in combat. A 1997 Congressional mandate requires both pre- and post-deployment medical examines, however, this requirement is currently being met by having our troops fill out self-administered surveys. This concerns me, as I believe it should concern all Americans. First, because the health of our service members should not rely on their ability to self diagnose and secondly, because these brave men and women deserve an accurate documentation of their health status in combat so that, if necessary, they can claim veterans’ health benefits when they come home. My original amendment required that DoD provide full hands-on pre- and post-deployment exams for all deployed troops, as opposed to the self-administered questionnaires. It also mandated a study of the effectiveness of the self-administered exams. The revised amendment—which reflects a bi-partisan compromise struck with Chairman Duncan Hunter and the Armed Services Committee—provides only for the study into the effectiveness of the questionnaires and that the study be performed within 120 days after its enactment. I do not believe that this is enough, but it does represent a victory for our service men and women because it continues an important ongoing dialogue on the health and safety of our service men and women; and it requires further analysis of the effectiveness of actual hands-on health screenings. I think that we can all agree that the health of our service members must be at the top of our agenda and this amendment puts the focus where it belongs."
05.01.2005	Washington, D.C. Today, Congressman Sanford Bishop, a Member of the House Appropriations Committee announced that more than $36.1 million has been earmarked for Georgia’s Second Congressional District in the fiscal year 2006 Military Quality of Life and Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill, which passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 425 to 1. The funding includes $20.9 million for a Combined Arms Collective Training Facility at Fort Benning, where additional funds have been provided for an infantry platoon battle course, two shoot houses to train both infantry and special operations forces, and a squad defense range. The Marine Corps Logistics Base at Albany will also be seeing an additional $5.8 million for the construction of a combat vehicle maintenance and preservation facility and a much needed satellite fire station. “This funding is vital to maintaining and improving our military installations and to meeting our ever expanding mission,” said Congressman Bishop. “These earmarks only underscore the important work being done in Albany and Columbus and coming on the heals, of last week’s BRAC announcement, I can say with full confidence that our bases are growing.” The state of Georgia is expected to receive a total of $207.7 million including $3.8 million for an armored fighting vehicle support facility at Kings Bay and $5.60 million to construct an operations facility for the 51st Combat Communications Squadron at Robins Air Force Base. The Military Quality of Life and Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies Subcommittee, of which Congressman Bishop is a member, overseas appropriations for the military quality of life functions of the Department of Defense, military construction, the Department of Veterans Affairs and related agencies. 2nd District Project included in the Military Quality of Life and Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill: Ft. Benning: Combined Arms Collective Training Facility $20.961 Infantry Platoon Battle Course $4.3 Light Infantry Shoot House $1.25 Special Operations Command Shoot House $1.7 Squad Defense Range $2.05 MCLB: Combat Vehicle Maintenance and Preservation Facility $4.0 Satellite Fire Station $1.84 Total
04.01.2005	Washington, D.C. Demonstrating his commitment to family farmers and small business owners throughout Georgia’s Second Congressional District, Congressman Sanford Bishop voted in favor of legislation that would permanently repeal the federal estate tax—also known as the “death tax”—that has been taxing the ability of individuals to pass on assets to their heirs. Congressman Bishop cosponsored “The Death Tax Repeal Permanency Act of 2005” (H.R. 8) which passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 272 to 162 and which will now be reconciled with the Senate approved version of the bill. Speaking on the House floor, Congressman Bishop delivered the following statement: “Thank you Mr. Speaker. I rise today to recognize the hard-working people of America who have played by the rules and have paid their fair share. Decent, law-abiding, tax-paying Americans are the backbone of this country, Mr. Speaker, and the salt of the Earth. They are the farmers of Southwest Georgia and the family business owners who provide the jobs that keep small rural communities alive and flourishing. All across this land are Americans who have paid taxes their entire lives, only to face a final taxing event at death. They paid their taxes during their lifetimes and should not be charged again when they die. The Death Tax represents all that is unfair and unjust about the tax structure in America because it undermines the life work and life savings of Americans who want only to pass on to their children and their grandchildren the fruits of their labor and the realization of their American Dream. In my state of Georgia, farmers, many of whom are widowed women and the children of deceased farmers, are faced with losing their family farms because of this death tax. Employees of family businesses, many of whom are minorities, are at risk of losing their jobs because their employers are forced to pay the unfair and exorbitant Death Taxes levied upon them. Funeral homes, newspaper publishers, radio station owners, and dry cleaners are all affected – all across the demographic spectrum. Mr. Speaker, although reasonable minds can differ on this issue, I believe that the Death Tax is politically misguided, morally unjustifiable, and downright un-American. Let us vote today to finally eliminate the Death Tax and return to the American people and their progeny the hard-earned fruits of their labor.”
04.01.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Sanford Bishop today placed a debt clock in front of his Washington office in an effort to call attention to the nation’s mounting national debt. The clock, which will be updated daily, currently reads $7.6 trillion, or $27,000 per person. “It is our hope that by providing a daily, visual reminder of our nation’s staggering national debt, we will inspire Congress to work for a solution,” said Congressman Bishop, member of the Blue Dog Coalition, a group of moderate to conservative House Democrats with reputations as fiscal hawks. “In order to cure our nation’s addiction to deficit spending, we must first admit that we have a problem.” Several other members of the Blue Dog Coalition joined Congressman Bishop in displaying a debt clock in front of their offices. By next week, more than two dozen Coalition members are expected to participate. Earlier this year, the Blue Dogs released a 12-Step Reform Plan to get America’s fiscal house in order. 1) Require a balanced Budget 2) Don’t let Congress buy on credit - Pay as you go 3) Put a lid on spending 4) Require federal agencies to put their fiscal houses in order 5) Make Congress tell taxpayers how much they’re spending 6) Set aside a rainy-day fund 7) Don’t hide votes to raise the debt limit 8) Written justification for earmarked projects 9) Ensure that Congress reads the bills it’s voting on 10) Require honest cost estimates for every bill that Congress votes on 11) Make sure new bills fit the budget 12) Make Congress do a better job keeping tabs on government programs “With record deficits on the rise, it is clear that the only way to get our fiscal house in order is to change the way Congress budgets taxpayer dollars,” said Congressman Bishop.“We must take a cure from the Common Sense approach that American families and business take to their own budgets. The importance of the Reform Plan is underscored by the ever rising numbers that are now posted in front of our offices. This is a call for action” Attached is a picture of Congressman Sanford Bishop explaining the importance of the National Debt Clock now being displayed outside of his Washington, D.C. Office.
04.01.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. Yesterday in a vote of 306 to 97, the U.S. House of Representatives passed HR 2844, the Continuity of Representation Act which establishes clear procedures for filling House Vacancies in the event that a significant number of Members become unable to serve due to a national emergency. The Bill resulted from growing concerns about the use of nuclear, biological, chemical and other weapons against the United States and the impact on the country should congress be targeted. "While the topic may be difficult for us to consider, it would be irresponsible for us not to be prepared," said Congressman Bishop. "Terrorists have more than demonstrated their willingness to do us harm. And while we will invest every available resource into protecting the American people-including those of us who work in our nation's capital-we must consider the best interests of the United States. Terrorism will not bring down the U.S. government." The bill specifically provides that once the Speaker of the House announces that more than 100 vacancies exist in the House of Representatives, states will have 45 days to hold special elections. By requiring elections-as opposed to allowing state governors to appoint replacements-the bill guarantees a functioning House of Representatives at the same time that it up-holds the long-standing constitutional tradition that only representatives elected by their constituents should serve in the House. After passing the House of Representatives HR 2844 will move on to the Senate for approval.
04.01.2005	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Sanford Bishop released the following statement today after participating in a Social Security Rally on Capitol Hill. The rally was held to demonstrate unity in efforts to strengthen Social Security and oppose plans for privatization as the debate enters its next phase on Capitol Hill. Today is the first day of the Senate Finance Committee hearings on Social Security. “This afternoon I rallied with my colleagues in defense of a program that has saved millions of Americans from poverty and in support of thousands of my constituents whose very lives depend on Social Security. “Social Security has been one of the most revolutionary and successful programs in the history of government, and while we all agree that steps need to be taken to ensure that future generations receive the benefits that they work for—we must not dismantle this program. “My colleagues and I do not oppose privatization because it is a Republican idea or even because it is the President’s idea, our nation’s retirement security—as well as the safety net that provides for Americans living with disabilities and surviving children and spouses—is too important to politicize. Rather we oppose privatization because it is a bad plan. We oppose privatization because it would cut Social Security benefits, because it would add trillions of dollars to our national debt and because it would put the future of millions of Americans at risk. “Never in our nation’s history has the United States government defaulted on its financial obligations and we will not start with Social Security. If we band together as a government we can guarantee that Social Security is alive and well for generations to come. We must not do this at the expense of the program or the millions who depend on it. Democrats are united in this fight and I invite my Republican colleagues to join us in our efforts to truly save Social Security.”
03.01.2005	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Sanford Bishop announced today that a $200,700 Assistance to Firefighters Grant has been awarded to Newton-Baker Fire and Rescue by the Department of Homeland Security. “I am very pleased to be able to announce that these funds will go towards the much needed purchase of a new firefighting vehicle for Baker County,” said Congressman Bishop. As a member of the House Appropriations Committee, Congressman Bishop helped fund the Assistance to Firefighters Grant program for fiscal year 2004, providing $750 million in direct assistance to firefighters to improve firefighting operations, firefighter health and safety programs, and to establish or expand fire prevention programs throughout the United States. “It’s a successful program, and it’s been crucial in funding small localities in Southwest Georgia who are often the first and only responders in emergency situations. The importance of these funds are elevated in light of the scarcity of federal dollars in recent years due to budget cuts, the war on terror, and other economic factors,” noted Congressman Bishop. “Communities like Newton serve our emergency needs each and every day, and we’re doing our best to ensure that they have the funds and the resources to do their job.” The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program is administered by the Department's Office for Domestic Preparedness in cooperation with the United States Fire Administration.
03.01.2005	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sanford Bishop released the following statement regarding today’s passage of the 2005 Budget Resolution: “House Republicans passed the 2006 Budget resolution today by a party-line vote of 218 – 214. I voted against this budget because it fails to meet the real challenges of American families at the same time that it continues the dangerous trend of adding billions to our national debt. It is a betrayal of the national trust. “Instead, I voted in favor of important legislation that was both fiscally sound and in line with our nation’s values. The Spratt/Democratic Substitute as well as the Congressional Black Caucus’s Budget focused on meeting our domestic and national security needs by instituting tax reform measures that fund government spending without mounting deficits. “In times of fiscal crisis, sacrifices need to be made, yet the budget resolution today essentially funds $100 billion in additional tax cuts by slashing Medicaid and grants for community development; under-funding critical priorities such as veterans’ health care, agriculture and education; raiding the Social Security trust fund and adding $2 trillion in debt over just five years. It doesn’t make sense. “Unlike the Republican sponsored budget, the budgets I voted for fully funded veterans’ healthcare, met our commitments to our nation’s farmers, provided for key education and training initiatives, funded community development and housing programs and renewed our commitment to balancing the budget and restoring the social security surplus. “The Democratic Substitute and the Congressional Black Caucus Budget honored our commitment to our men and women in uniform and the sacred trust that we hold with the American people. I am disappointed that these important pieces of legislation did not get the bipartisan consideration that they deserved. Our fiscal priorities should be a matter of national not partisan interest.”
03.01.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. Yesterday Congressman Sanford Bishop joined his colleagues on the House Appropriations Committee in passing the FY05 Defense Appropriation’s bill, which includes more the $196.87 million for defense projects in the second congressional district. $132.7 million will go to the Albany Marine Corps Logistics Base for the development and retrofitting of Amphibious Assault Vehicles being used in Iraq and $1.5 million for the replacement of outdated sewer lines on the Albany base. $4 million was appropriated to construct Fort Benning’s Sunshine Road Ammunition Route. “The FY05 Defense Appropriations bill clearly demonstrates our overall commitment to our men and women in uniform and the global war on terror,” said Congressman Sanford Bishop. “Unfortunately all of the projects that we fought for did not receive funding. For example, we sought $5.7 million for the National Infantry Museum at Fort Benning, but the Committee was unwilling to approve a museum project. We will not give up this fight and will be working with our senators to secure approval in the Senate bill” The Defense Appropriations bill is one of thirteen appropriations bills that assign discretionary funding for each of the federal government’s agencies. After passing the House Appropriations Committee, the Defense Appropriations bill will now move to the House floor for approval by the entire House of Representatives. After passing the House, it will go to a conference where differences with the Senate version will be reconciled. “This is a significant investment in the 2nd Congressional District that recognizes the important contribution that our area’s military bases have made and will continue to make to our national defense,” said Congressman Bishop. Included in the Defense Appropriations bill are: • $1.5 Million to replace sewer lines at the Albany Marine Corps Logistics Base. • $132.7 Million for Marine Amphibious Assault Vehicles at the Albany Marine Corps Logistics Base. • $58.67 Million for a Wind Corrected Munitions Dispenser produced by Lockheed Martin in Americus, GA. • $4 Million for the Ft. Benning Sunshine Road Ammunition Route.
02.01.2005	WASHINGTON, DC. Congressman Sanford Bishop released the following statement in response to President Bush’s State of the Union Address. “Listening to President Bush’s speech, I actually found myself in agreement on at least one issue: we must stop talking about bipartisanship and start putting it into practice. As the President said, we must do this to build a better world for our children and our grandchildren. “As a nation we are facing some of the most critical challenges of our history: challenges to our military, to our security and to our very way of life. We must come together to support the growing democracy in Iraq, to ensure that our fighting men and women have the resources and equipment they need to complete their mission and get them home safely as soon as possible. We must be diligent in our national security effort to protect the lives of all Americans. And we must expand opportunity, with an economy that puts the American dream within every citizen’s reach and a vibrant public education system, which truly leaves no child behind. “While I am committed to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle, I will always stand up for the interests of my constituents. While I believe that we must take steps to ensure the long-term survival of Social Security, I will not vote in favor of any measure that would jeopardize the guaranteed benefit that so many hard working Americans have earned. And while I agree that we must take steps to reduce the federal budget deficit, I believe that we must do so in a way that reflects our values as a nation. “I remain hopeful that we can put partisan rhetoric aside and focus on the challenges facing us as a nation. I look forward to seeing the President’s budget proposal and I stand ready to work with him and my Congressional colleagues on a very ambitious agenda.”
02.01.2005	Washington, D.C. – This afternoon, Congressman Sanford Bishop introduced a resolution in the House of Representatives honoring Ossie Davis who passed away Friday, February 4, 2005. Born in Cogdell, GA, Ossie Davis distinguished himself as a civil rights leader and an actor known for taking on roles that challenged racial injustice. He performed in more than 80 movies, including “the Hill,” “Scalphunters,” “Do the Right Thing” and “Malcolm X.” Two months ago, Ossie Davis and his wife were honored at the Kennedy Center for their lifelong contributions to theater, television and film, as well as for being models of courage and grace in the long struggle for equality in the United States. “Ossie Davis was a man of great courage and character,” said Congressman Sanford Bishop. “Our world better place because of his talents and his tireless effort, which it is an honor to pay tribute to. My condolences go out to his family. He will be dearly missed.”
02.01.2005	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sanford Bishop released the following statement regarding President Bush’s proposed Fiscal Year 2006 budget: “Reviewing the President’s proposed FY 2006 budget, I was pleased by the important investment that he continues to make in our national defense as well as the global war on AIDS. However, my fellow Georgians have reason to be concerned with many of the choices that he would make on our behalf. Our community depends on federal dollars to support important programs and services including assistance to family farms and small businesses, providing quality education to our children and supporting our veterans. This is why it is important that our federal budget reflect our values as a nation, yet the budget the President presented us with today falls tragically short. “I believe in the importance of fiscal discipline, the value of balancing our books and of not leaving our children and our children’s children to pay our debts, yet the proposed FY 2006 budget would add more than $4 trillion to the deficit over the next 10 years. This number can only grow as the budget fails to include the coming year’s expenditures in Iraq and Afghanistan. And it fails to include any additional details on the Bush Administration’s plan to overhaul the Social Security system, which alone is estimated to cost taxpayers more than $754 billion in additional debt. “In addition, the President is proposing the reduction or elimination of 150 non-defense discretionary programs in order to respond to record budget deficits, but even eliminating every dollar of discretionary spending would not balance the budget. I believe that in times of national and fiscal crisis, sacrifices need to be made, but they need to be made by all Americans. It is unfair to scale back government programs that benefit hard working families in order to fund tax cuts that most benefit the wealthiest of Americans. “Our federal budget must find a responsible way to meet our domestic and international obligations, while honoring our values. Values founded on our belief in opportunity and the sense of accountability, fairness and community that define us as a nation. This is the American Dream and this is the sacred trust that we in government hold with the constituents that we represent. This budget is a betrayal of that trust. EDUCATION “One out of every three government programs being cut concerns education. These cuts include the elimination of the Even Start Literacy program, Safe and Drug Free state school grants and the Arts in Education program. This is not something that the President should be bragging about, because not only does this budget increase the debt load for our future generations, it fails to invest in their future. It is wrong to be building schools in Iraq, when we are laying teachers off here at home. VETERANS “The President’s budget continues to break our nation’s promise to our veterans. The 1.7 percent increase it funds for medical programs over the funds appropriated for fiscal year 2005 is far from the 13-14 percent increase that the Veteran’s Administration (VA) has testified it needs annually to even maintain the current level of services. Additionally the President seeks to slash funding for the VA nursing home program and the state home nursing care program. AGRICULTURE “The President’s proposal to slash the Department of Agriculture’s spending by 10 percent is a betrayal of the trust of our farmers who were promised six years of market stability in the 2002 Farm Bill. Cuts to conservation, energy, rural development and research programs add up to close to $1 billion in additional cuts for America’s Agriculture programs. Additionally, by restricting the maximum amount of farm support—known as payment limitations—regardless of the number of different crops and livestock produced, the farm’s organization or even the size of the farm, will create economic devastation for farm communities throughout Georgia and all of the Southeast United States. HOUSING “The President claims that he wants to increase the number of Americans who own homes, yet Section 235 and 236 programs, which provide home ownership and rental housing assistance, were cut from $629 million to $19 million effectively eliminating the programs. These programs are central to the goal of increasing home ownership as they provide assistance to prospective home owners, particularly those who are low and middle income. Additionally, he requests only $2 million for the HOPE (Home Ownership and Opportunity for People Everywhere) grant program and eliminates the HOPE VI program, which provides grant money to revitalize severely distressed public housing. Which Congress has typically supported over the President’s objections. ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT “The President’s proposal of a new “Economic Development Challenge” program does little to provide new economic development opportunities, rather masking the elimination of 18 existing federal economic development programs, such as the Community Development Block Grants, Community Services Block Grants, and the Economic Development Administration. Combined these programs have contributed more than $6 billion to rural and urban communities across Georgia and the entire United States. HOMELAND SECURITY “The budget cuts funding for the Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) program by $480 million, and slashes funding for local firefighters by $215 million – cuts of 80 percent and 30 percent, respectively. It also breaks the promise of putting an additional 2,000 border patrol agents on the job in 2006, as promised in landmark intelligence reforms passed late last year and endorsed by the 9/11 Commission. The budget provides funding for only 210 agents.”
02.01.2005	WASHINGTON D.C. This afternoon-only days after the Administration’s budget was delivered to Congress-Congressman Bishop joined his colleagues on the Blue Dog Coalition in introducing a 12-step reform plan to put an end to the President’s runaway deficit spending. “With record deficits on the rise, it is clear that the only way to get our fiscal house in order is to change the way Congress budgets taxpayer dollars,” said Congressman Bishop. “These common-sense budget enforcement rules are an important step in getting back on track.” The Blue Dog 12-Step Budget Reform is composed of 12 vital steps to getting our nation’s fiscal house back in order. 1) Require a balanced Budget 2) Don’t let Congress buy on credit - Pay as you go 3) Put a lid on spending 4) Require federal agencies to put their fiscal houses in order 5) Make Congress tell taxpayers how much they’re spending 6) Set aside a rainy-day fund 7) Don’t hide votes to raise the debt limit 8) Written justification for earmarked projects 9) Ensure that Congress reads the bills it’s voting on 10) Require honest cost estimates for every bill that Congress votes on 11) Make sure new bills fit the budget Make Congress do a better job keeping tabs on government programs “The Administration and Congress need to work together to establish spending caps and pay-as-you-go rules, which will force the federal government to live within its means,” said Congressman Bishop. “This 12-step plan provides a good framework to make that a reality.” The Blue Dogs are a group of 35 moderate and conservative Democrats whose attention to fiscal discipline has won them praise from magazine and newspaper editorials around the country
02.01.2005	WASHINGTON D.C. This afternoon Congressman Bishop was appointed to the House Appropriations Committee’s Subcommittee on Homeland Security as well as the newly formed, Subcommittee on Military Quality Of Life and Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies. The Department of Homeland Security, which overseas the national effort to protect against terrorism, oversees agencies that include: the U.S. Coast Guard, the U.S. Secret Service and the Federal Emergency Management Agency. The Subcommittee on Military Quality Of Life and Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies will oversee construction projects for the Army, Navy (including Marine Corps); and Air Force, as well as Military Housing Agencies and the Veterans Administration. “These subcommittee assignments are an important step for Georgia and the people of the Second Congressional District. They put us in a position to improve the quality of life of for our men and women in uniform, their families and the communities that support our bases,” said Congressman Bishop. “Additionally, this is an important opportunity to work on issues of border and transportation security that are central to protecting our citizens from terrorism and the emergency preparedness programs that help us rebuild when disaster strikes. I look forward to managing these issues in the term ahead.” Congressman Bishop was named to the Subcommittees on Homeland Security and Military Quality Of Life and Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies after committee oversight responsibilities were realigned. The Subcommittee on Military Quality Of Life and Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies expands the responsibilities of the Military Construction Subcommittee that Congressman Bishop previously served on. The Subcommittee on Veterans Affairs and House and Urban Development (VA/HUD), his other previous assignment, was eliminated.
11.01.2004	WASHINGTON, D.C. Yesterday, Congressman Sanford Bishop signed a petition that would force the entire House of Representatives to consider a proposal that would give the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) the power to negotiate lower prescription drug prices on behalf of seniors enrolled in Medicare. This provision was eliminated from the Republican Medicare legislation signed into law at the end of last year. “We will not let the outrage of our seniors fall on deaf ears,” said Congressman Bishop. “For years the appeal has been simple: a real Medicare prescription drug benefit that is affordable, universal and guaranteed. Instead my Republican colleagues handed our seniors a confusing plan that prohibits the Secretary of Health and Human Services from negotiating lower drug prices on behalf of the 40 million seniors enrolled in Medicare.” Currently, the Veterans’ Administration (VA) and private insurance companies negotiate for lower drug prices on behalf of their membership. Families USA, a non-profit, non-partisan organization estimates that the VA has saved as much as 40% on the drugs most commonly used by seniors. If enacted, the “Medicare Prescription Drug Savings and Choice Act of 2004” (HR. 3767) would work to duplicate such success for the benefit of the more than 40 million seniors currently enrolled in Medicare. “Allowing the government to negotiate drug discounts is a common sense measure that could mean substantial savings. It is unconscionable that many are being forced to choose between purchasing food and medication, just as it is unconscionable that ensuring profits for drug companies would be prioritized over making prescription drugs affordable for our seniors,” said Congressman Bishop. “I will continue to fight for a real Medicare prescription drug benefit. Signing this discharge petition is a step in that direction.” The purpose of a discharge petition is to force a bill out of committee for consideration by the full House of Representatives and requires the signatures of a majority of the Members of Congress (218) to be successful.
10.01.2004	Washington, D.C. Congressman Sanford Bishop, a member of the appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction, announced that the House approved by a vote of 374 to 0 the Military Construction Appropriations spending bill (HR 4837), which in addition to containing more than $282 million in projects for the state of Georgia also included $11.6 billion dollars in emergency funding to address the devastation caused by hurricanes Charley, Frances, Ivan and Jeanne. “The military construction spending bill provided an important opportunity to pass much needed funding for disaster relief. This represents a major victory for military facilities in the state of Georgia. Moreover, it represents a victory for the families, farmers and businesses that have been overwhelmed in recent weeks by mother nature,” said Congressman Sanford Bishop. The package specifically provides $2.9 billion in emergency assistance for agricultural producers experiencing crop loss caused by natural disasters, including by hurricanes, drought and other natural disasters. Preliminary estimates of crop losses in the state of Georgia top $400 million due to hurricanes Charley and Frances alone. “The emergency funding will unfortunately not make up for all of the devastation that the hurricanes have caused, but it will go a long way towards recovering losses and protecting the future of our family farms, businesses and others that have been hit hardest by these storms,” said Congressman Bishop. “This bill makes important progress for South Georgians. We secured funding for the much needed Kelly Hill/Main Post Barracks facility at Fort Benning, where we also funded a physical fitness training center, a hazardous cargo loading apron and improvements to the Ranger barrack’s facility. And while funding for the base support center at Moody Air Force Base was not included in the President’s budget funding request, working with my colleagues on the Subcommittee, we were able to add an addition $9.6 million for this critical project.” The Military Construction Conference Report passed the House of Representatives. It will now go to the full Senate for passage and then be sent to President Bush for his signature and enactment into law. Additional details for the Emergency Disaster package and Georgia Military Construction projects included in the FY’05 spending bill are attached below: Disaster Assistance: Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA)—The bill provides $6.5 billion for disaster recovery efforts of FEMA in addition to the $2 billion which was appropriated to the agency early this month. FEMA uses these resources for a variety of disaster relief activities including direct assistance to impacted individuals and families, paying for debris removal and utility and infrastructure repairs and emergency food and shelter and to mitigate future damage to public and private property. Defense damage and recovery--$1.1 billion for the Department of Defense for costs associated with the evacuation, base preparation, base recovery and damage to structure and equipment at various military facilities including the Pensacola Air Station. Small Business Association Disaster Relief loans—The disaster relief activities of the Small Business Administration are funded at $929 million. This funding level will leverage $5.5 billion in low interest loans to individuals and businesses. Highway and Infrastructure Repairs--$1.2 billion for the Federal Highway Administration’s Emergency Relief Program for emergency repairs to eligible highways and roads affected by Hurricane Charley, Frances, Ivan and Jeanne and Gaston. Also includes $30 million for repairs for airports and aviation facilities. National Parks and Wildlife Refuges—Provides $206 million to repair facilities, trails and clear debris from damaged National Parks, forests and wildlife refuges based on the most recent estimates from federal agencies. Beach Replenishment and Dredging—Includes $362 million for the Army Corps of Engineers to restore navigation channels, repair and rehabilitate coastal areas, beach renourishment and address other projects in affected areas. Economic Development—Provides $150 million for Community Development Grants for emergency expenses to help replace damaged homes, including replacement of destroyed farm labor housing and housing for other low-income persons, properties and businesses and for economic redevelopment projects. Health Services--$50 million for the Public Health and Social Services Emergency Fund to provide nutritional, medical and social services to affected elderly individuals and assist community health centers in the impacted areas. NASA--$126 million, including: $89 million for repairs for buildings and communications systems at Kennedy Space Center; $23 million for repair of equipment exposed to the weather; and $14 million to provide temporary workspaces for displaced employees. Veterans Affairs—Provides $121 million to repair damage to Department of Veterans Affairs facilities. Coast Guard—Provides $33 million to reflect the most current damage estimates to Coast Guard facilities. International Assistance—Provides $!00 million for disaster and famine assistance funds to mitigate the damage from Hurricanes Ivan and Jeanne in Grenada, Jamaica, Haiti and other nations. American Red Cross receives $70 million for their mission to shelter, feed and otherwise support victims of the recent natural disasters in Florida and other affected areas. Georgia projects included in the House FY’05 Military Construction Appropriations Bill: ARMY Ft. Benning: Barracks Complex – Kelly Hill/Main Post $49,565,000 Hazardous Cargo Loading Apron $3,850,000 Physical Fitness Training Center $18,362,000 Revitalize Ranger Barracks $1,850,000 Receptee Barracks $2,250,000 Consolidated Health Clinic $7,100,000 Ft. Gillem Recruiting Brigade Operations Building $5,800,000 Fort McPherson Child Development Center $4,900,000 Ft. Stewart Aircraft Maintenance Hanger (SOF) $21,000,000 Barracks Complex – 5th & 16th PH2 $32,950,000 Chapel $9,500,000 Command and Control Facility $24,695,000 Tactical Equipment Complex $10,000,000 SOF Battalion Operations Complex $17,600,000 ARMY NATIONAL GUARD Savannah Army Aviation Support Facility $16,554,000 NAVY Kings Bay Enclave Fencing and Parking $16,000,000 AIR FORCE Robins AFB Aircraft Ramp $15,000,000 Fire/crash Rescue $6,570,000 Moody AFB Base Support Center $9,600,000 Dobbins AFB Maintenance Facility $10,000,000
10.01.2004	Defense Authorization Act focuses on Force Protection and Personnel Benefits WASHINGTON, D.C. – This Afternoon, Congressman Sanford Bishop voted in favor of the 2005 National Defense Authorization Act (H.R. 4200), which sets policies and funding levels for the nation’s military. The legislation authorized $445.6 billion in budget authority for the Department of Defense (DoD) and national security programs of the Department of Energy (DoE). “The Defense Authorization bill is one of the most important pieces of legislation that we pass in Congress. It ensures that the brave men and women who risk their lives for us on the battlefield have the tools and equipment they need to get the job done and keep them safe. It also provides for much-needed quality of life improvements for our service members and their families here at home,” said Congressman Bishop. Among the many initiatives included in the bill, are a 3.5 percent across-the-board pay raise, special pay and bonuses and improved military housing – as well as a complete phase-out of out-of-pocket housing expenses. H.R. 4200, which passed the House of Representatives with a vote of 359 to 14, will now go to the full Senate for passage and then be sent to President Bush for his signature and enactment into law. “I commend my colleagues on the Armed Services Committee for their hard work in advancing this legislation. With more than 200,000 soldiers, sailors, airmen and Marines serving in the global war on terrorism, giving priority to our troops is more important now than ever,” said Congressman Bishop. Additional highlights of the 2005 Defense Authorization Act: • $25 billion to support the Global War on Terror’s operational costs, personnel expenses and procurement of new equipment. • Enhanced health care benefits for reservists and their family members. • Elimination of the Survivor Benefit penalty, which currently reduces benefits paid to surviving military spouses once they become eligible for Social Security benefits. • Full implementation of concurrent receipt for disabled retirees considered 100 percent disabled. As part of the 10-year phase in plan for concurrent receipt, these retirees will now receive both their full military retirement pay and their VA disability compensation. • Eliminate a statutory ceiling on the military housing privatization initiative to build and revitalize more family and unaccompanied housing at domestic military bases. • Rapid acquisition and armor initiatives to protect our troops.
09.01.2004	WASHINGTON, DC—Standing up for the traditional definition of marriage, Congressman Sanford Bishop this afternoon voted in favor of the “Marriage Protection Amendment” (H.J. Res 106), which if enacted would amend the U.S. Constitution to recognize marriage solely as the union between one man and one woman. “I, like the citizens of Southwest Georgia, firmly believe that marriage is divinely created and ordained by God between one man and one woman. I believe that amending the constitution to recognize traditional marriage is the most responsible way to protect this sacred institution,” said Congressman Bishop. With a vote of 227 to 186, the “Marriage Protection Amendment” failed to gain the two-thirds majority required to pass the House of Representatives. * * * Below is the statement, which Congressman Bishop gave on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives this afternoon in defense of the “Marriage Protection Amendment.” “I am glad that Congress has moved this important legislation to the Floor of the House for a vote today. “My office has received literally thousands of letters, emails, personal visits, and phone calls from constituents urging me to support the institution of traditional marriage, and I want them to know today that I have heard them. “I realize that reasonable minds may differ on whether to allow non-traditional marriages in the United States. But I am clear on this issue, because the values I share with the people of the 2nd District of Georgia are deeply held for God, country, work and family. Moreover, these family values are those of the traditional family based in our Judeo-Christian principles. That is why I have co-sponsored and will vote for this important constitutional amendment, H.J.Res. 106, (and the earlier H.J. Res. 56), in order to protect the institution of marriage by defining marriage in the United States as the union between a man and a woman. “I also voted for the Defense of Marriage Act in 1996,which prohibits federal recognition of same-sex marriages and allows individual states to refuse to recognize such marriages. “Mr. Speaker, only by having a uniform definition of marriage established in the Constitution, and interpreted by the federal courts can this most basic unit of society be protected. “God, Country, work, family-- marriage between one man and one woman-- to these, I pledge my sacred honor."
09.01.2004	WASHINGTON, DC—This afternoon, Congressman Sanford Bishop joined his colleagues in introducing the “Protection of Family Farmers Act of 2004,” which if enacted would extend authorization of Chapter 12 of the bankruptcy code. Chapter 12 provides a valuable bankruptcy option that allows struggling family farmers to reorganize their debt and protect their farms. “Farming is not just a profession, it is a way of life for many Americans and many Georgians in my district. Charley, Frances, Ivan and Jeanne have already robbed too many farmers in South Georgia of their crops this year; we must not allow these storms to also steal their way of life,” said Congressman Bishop. “As Members of Congress we have a responsibility to protect our family farms and extending Chapter 12 is a critical step.” Chapter 12 Bankruptcy protection was enacted by Congress in 1986 to give financially distressed family farmers facing bankruptcy a chance to reorganize their debt, keep their farms, and continue farming. Congress has failed to renew the protection after it lapsed on January 1, 2004. Under this legislation, Chapter 12 is extended until June 30, 2005, retroactive to Jan. 1, 2004. The retroactive provision would allow farmers who filed under a different type of bankruptcy to convert to a Chapter 12 filing if their bankruptcy has not been finalized. An important aspect of Chapter 12 protection is that a farmer's land and equipment will be exempt from liquidation and sale during bankruptcy, which allows farm families to keep farming. Congressman Bishop is an original co-sponsor of the “Protection of Family Farmers Act of 2004” which was introduced by Congresswoman Tammy Baldwin (D-WI). He is also sponsoring legislation that would make Chapter 12 protection permanent.
09.01.2004	WASHINGTON, DC—After reviewing the President’s most recent request for an emergency supplemental to address the devastation of Hurricanes Ivan and Jeanne, Congressman Sanford Bishop, a member of the House Committee on Appropriations, appealed to the Committee’s Chairman for more funds to address the growing agricultural crisis in South Georgia. “The President’s request for only $400 million for all of the nation’s agricultural producers suffering crop losses is far from adequate,” said Congressman Bishop. “Our initial estimates for the state of Georgia alone calculate a loss of approximately $400 million due to hurricanes Charley and Frances, once damages from Ivan and Jeanne are included this number will increase dramatically. “Federal assistance will be crucial to alleviating the short and long-term impact that these storms will have on our family farmers. The unprecedented barrage of storms this year has caused incalculable devastation, but the losses of Georgia’s farmers must not go unrecognized.” The House of Representatives is expected to pass the emergency supplemental later this week. Congressman Bishop’s letter to Chairman Young of the House Appropriation’s Committee is attached below. For more information on disaster assistance visit FEMA’s website at www.fema.gov or GEMA’s storm recovery website at www.gemainfo.com. The Honorable C. W. Bill Young Chairman Committee on Appropriations H218 Capitol Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Chairman Young: I am writing to express my concern regarding the President’s most recent FY2004 emergency supplemental proposal, and in particular, proposed funding for the Department of Agriculture (USDA) to address the impact of Hurricanes Ivan and Jeanne. Under the President’s request, USDA would be provided an additional $400 million for much needed financial assistance to agricultural producers suffering crop losses from the 2004 hurricanes. Unfortunately, the devastation caused these hurricanes, and the resulting agricultural losses will undoubtedly far exceed the resources included in the President’s latest request. Preliminary estimates for the entire State of Georgia place the losses due to Hurricanes Charley and Frances at approximately $400 million (e.g., cotton - $150m; vegetables - $100m; peanuts - $100m; pecans - $50m). Once final figures are available for the cumulative damage caused by all hurricanes this year, including Ivan and Jeanne, the projected agricultural loss statewide will no doubt increase significantly. In my district, we are estimating that once a full accounting of damage is completed, the combined agricultural losses resulting from just Hurricanes Charley and Frances alone could amount to more than $175 million. In practical terms, agricultural producers in my district could be looking at combined losses of as much as 60% - 75% in peanut and cotton production, not to mention pecans, vegetables and related crops. As you know, my district is the largest producer of peanuts in the nation, as well as one of the top three producers of cotton. More importantly, without adequate Federal assistance, these losses may have a long-term disproportionate impact on our small family owned farms - - the backbone of agriculture in the nation. I believe it is critical that adequate additional emergency funds and related resources be included in any upcoming supplemental and/or other legislative vehicle(s) for the USDA, which more accurately reflects the actual needs of not only Georgia, but all states which have been devastated by this year’s hurricane season. We have been keeping your staff updated on the latest loss data available from the State of Georgia. I appreciate your consideration and cooperation in this matter, and stand ready to do whatever I can to assist in this process. With warmest personal regards, I remain Sincerely, Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. Member of Congress
09.01.2004	WASHINGTON, D.C. In the wake of hurricanes Francis and Ivan Congressman Sanford Bishop joined Governor Perdue and Members of Congress in asking President Bush for an expedited major disaster declaration for the State of Georgia. If granted, Georgians impacted by the hurricanes will be eligible for federal assistance. “Federal assistance will be essential to helping Georgians get back on their feet. While federal agencies are working with local governments on the ground to assess damages, we need the funding to turn things around,” said Congressman Bishop. “Georgians have been hit hard this month and I am hopeful that the President will grant our request.” Georgia is requesting 100 percent direct federal assistance, debris removal, and emergency protective measures for the first 72 hours, as well as implementation of the Hazard Mitigation Grant Program for the entire state. If and when this request is approved, FEMA will make a toll-free number available for Georgians to call and register for assistance. The letter to President Bush is attached below. The Hon. George W. Bush The President of the United States The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20050 Dear Mr. President: Today a letter was transmitted to your office from Governor Sonny Perdue requesting that you declare a Major Declaration for the State of Georgia as a result of the direct impacts of Hurricane Ivan. We are writing in support of Governor Perdue’s request, and to ask that you look favorably upon it. Hurricane Ivan’s torrential downpours and tropical storm force winds caused widespread power outages, leaving nearly 250,000 people without power in the Metro Atlanta area alone. Ivan has also resulted in significant flooding along Peachtree Creek, the Chattahoochee River at Vinings, and the Etowah River in Dawsonville and Canton. In Dekalb County, one neighborhood received up to 5 feet of floodwaters. The rainfall associated with Hurricane Ivan, and the expected track of Hurricane Jeanne, willr esult in more flooding throughout our state. Governor Perdue has outlined in his letter to you the specifics of the damage to our State, and the need for immediate federal disaster relief aid. For your reference we are attaching a copy of that letter. We appreciate your leadership in this area, and your prompt attention to our State’s request. As always, we stand ready to assist you in any way possible in this matter.
09.01.2004	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today Congressman Sanford Bishop was proud to announce that Valdosta Technical College will receive $49,474 from the U.S. Department of Justice’s Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention to implement the “Road Map to Success” project. The Road Map to Success project will target girls 15 to 17 year old in six Georgia counties by providing a residential summer program focusing on academic and personal enrichment. Participants will receive special academic coursework that is geared toward improving grade level performance in English, reading and math. Valdosta State will supplement the academic enrichment with life skills workshops that include decision-making, building self esteem, team building, goal setting and conflict resolution. “Our goal is to increase opportunities for our young women. This program will not only provide them with the skills they need to succeed beyond high school, it will give them the options and the confidence they need to get ahead,” said Congressman Bishop. “Giving our young people the opportunity to reach their full potential makes a difference in their lives and in our community. As a member of the Appropriations Committee I am proud to have worked directly with the Justice Department in earmarking these funds for such a worthy project.”
09.01.2004	WASHINGTON, D.C. Last night the Dougherty High Chorale received an overwhelming reception for their performance at the Gospel Extravaganza held at the Washington Convention Center. The gospel concert is a highlight of the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation’s Annual Legislative Conference which is holding it 34th session this week. This is the second year that Congressman Bishop has hosted the Dougherty High Chorale for the event. Before a crowd of more than 500 of the Convention’s Participants, the Dougherty Chorale demonstrated its performance range with a medley of gospel and spiritual arrangements that included “Battle of Jericho,” “Saga of Justice,” and “He is High and Lifted Up” which was written by chorale director, Mark Butler. In his introduction of the choir, Congressman Sanford Bishop recognized the choir’s trademark discipline and commitment to not just music but to public service. “’It is inspiring to see young people dedicate so much of themselves to giving back to their community,” said Congressman Bishop. “We bring them to Washington, D.C. as a recognition and as a reward for their hard work, but also to show the nation what talented young people we have in South Georgia. Both last year and this, they were far and away the best choir featured.” The Dougherty High Chorale arrived in Washington, D.C. earlier this week to prepare for the concert and are spending their final day touring the city with Congressman Bishop. “There is so much to see and learn in our capital city, I am really glad to have the opportunity to share it with young people back in the district,” said Congressman Bishop. “I hope that they find it as inspiring as I do.”
