04.18.2019	Moulton Statement on the Release of the Mueller Report April 18th, 2019 SALEM, Mass.—Today, following the delivery of the redacted version of the Mueller Report to Congress, Representative Seth Moulton (D-MA) made the following statement: We learned today that the president stated that the Mueller Report would end his presidency. But whether or not he is guilty of conspiracy is not the most serious concern here. Every American, whether we support the president or not, should want to know why Vladimir Putin and Russia worked so hard to get President Trump elected. That unmistakable conclusion of the report is the real threat to our nation. This is where Congress should focus its oversight of the Administration–as mandated by our Constitution–in the months ahead. Partisanship should end when it comes to our national security. Russia is the only country on earth that could literally end all life in the United States. Democratic and Republican presidents alike have faced down the Russian threat for two generations. All Americans should know why Putin views this president as an exception. ###
04.10.2019	Moulton, Buchanan Introduce Bill to Combat Chinese Opioids April 10th, 2019 Fentanyl Sanctions Act Targets Chinese-based Drug Makers WASHINGTON — Today, Congressmen Seth Moulton (D-MA) and Vern Buchanan (R-FL) introduced the Fentanyl Sanctions Act, bipartisan legislation to force China to stem the flow of deadly, synthetic opioids being trafficked into the United States. Fentanyl is a synthetic drug similar to heroin but 50 times more powerful. These drugs are often manufactured in foreign countries and mailed into the United States. In fact, an estimated 80% of pure fentanyl seized by U.S. officials in 2017 arrived from China. “Fentanyl has become the leading illegal drug in the opioid crisis in our country, and it’s time we attack the source,” Moulton said. “While China’s ban on producing fentanyl is a promising start, Congress should hold China to its word. This bill will target the fentanyl producers worldwide who profit from the overdose deaths happening in communities across our country, including Massachusetts where fentanyl is the leading cause of opioid-overdose deaths. Congress must act quickly.” Buchanan said: “Fentanyl and other opioids have ravaged Florida communities and torn apart many families and lives. While I welcome China’s announcement that it will ban all forms of fentanyl, we must ensure that their words are followed through with meaningful action. I urge my colleagues to immediately approve this bipartisan bill to deliver another resource that could help combat the flow of opioids across our borders.” Companion legislation was introduced in the Senate last week by a coalition that includes Senators Marco Rubio (R-FL) and Chuck Schumer (D-NY). Last week, the Chinese government announced that it would ban all forms of fentanyl. However, concerns remain about Beijing’s poor enforcement record. One report details that between 2015 and 2016, 1,072 shipments of fentanyl were seized by American officials before it could enter the U.S. Meanwhile, China only had four instances of seizing the substance before it could be exported. Specifically, the Fentanyl Sanctions Act would: Impose sanctions on China-based drug manufacturers that knowingly send synthetic opioids to drug traffickers and other criminal operations. Authorize $600 million in funding for law enforcement to combat the trafficking of opioids across the globe. Create a new federal commission to combat synthetic opioid trafficking that will include the Administrator of the Drug Enforcement Agency, Secretary of Homeland Security, Secretary of Defense, Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary of State. Synthetic opioids, like fentanyl, were responsible for the greatest increase in opioid deaths in Florida between 2012 and 2017. Its many spinoffs can be even more powerful, especially the elephant tranquilizer carfentanil, and they led to more deaths in Manatee County than any other county in Florida in 2016. Meanwhile, in Massachusetts, the opioid-overdose related death rate has tripled in four years from 691 to 1,990, and Fentanyl has overtaken prescription drugs and heroin as the leading cause of opioid-overdose deaths. According to The New York Times, since 2013, U.S. overdose deaths related to fentanyl and similar substances have skyrocketed from 3,000 to 28,000.
04.05.2019	Declaraciones del Congresista Seth Moulton sobre el Triángulo Norte y las amenazas de cerrar la frontera con México April 5th, 2019 WASHINGTON – Ante la inminente visita del presidente Trump a California, el Representante Seth Moulton (MA-06) hizo las siguientes declaraciones con respecto al plan de la Administración para reducir la ayuda a tres países de América Central y las amenazas para cerrar la frontera con México: Una crisis humanitaria en Guatemala, El Salvador y Honduras está causando los retos en la frontera con México. Existe una solución obvia que ha funcionado antes: aumentar la ayuda para esta región para abordar las causas de la crisis. El presidente está haciendo exactamente lo contrario, lo que obligará a más inmigrantes a huir hacia el norte. Esta asistencia financiera no solo ayuda estos países, sino que también fortalece la seguridad nacional de los Estados Unidos. Este modelo nos ha servido en países como Colombia. Gracias a nuestra ayuda a través del Plan Colombia, este país pasó de ser un narco estado devastado por la guerra a un destino de vacaciones para los estadounidenses en poco más de 15 años. Mientras tanto, aquí en nuestro país, lo que tenemos que hacer es reformar al sistema de inmigración. Amenazas de cerrar la frontera no es liderazgo, cualquiera con un micrófono y una cuenta de Twitter puede hacer lo mismo. Trabajar en el Congreso para aprobar una verdadera reforma migratoria es el tipo de solución que el presidente debe ofrecer.” Según WOLA, una importante organización de investigación y defensa de los derechos humanos, la cantidad de personas detenidas en la frontera entre los Estados Unidos y México se encuentra en su nivel más bajo desde la década de 1970, pero la cantidad de solicitudes de asilo de Centroamérica está aumentando. WOLA dice que el aumento se debe a la violencia en estos países, y “no existe evidencia de que grupos de pandillas como MS-13 se están aprovechando del sistema de inmigración o asilo para infiltrar a líderes de pandillas a Estados Unidos”. Un análisis de cómo se usa la ayuda estadounidense en el Triángulo del Norte está disponible aquí.
04.05.2019	Moulton Statement on Northern Triangle and the President’s Threats to Close the Southern Border April 5th, 2019 WASHINGTON – Today, as President Trump visits California, Representative Seth Moulton (MA-06) made the following statement regarding the Administration’s plan to cut aid to three Central American countries and his threats to close the US-Mexico border: A humanitarian crisis in Guatemala, El Salvador and Honduras is fueling America’s immigration challenges on the border with Mexico. There’s an obvious solution that has worked before: increase targeted aid to address the root causes of the crisis. The president is doing the exact opposite, which will only force more immigrants to flee north. Sending aid to foreign countries strengthens America’s national security, and there’s nowhere this is more obvious than in Latin America. You have to get it right, but we have a good model in Colombia. Thanks to our aid through Plan Colombia, the country went from a narco-state ravaged by war to a popular vacation destination for Americans in a little over 15 years. Meanwhile, back here at home, we need to fix our entire immigration system. Threatening to close the southern border requires no leadership, only a microphone and a Twitter handle. Working through Congress to drive real immigration reform into law is the kind of solution the president should deliver.” According to WOLA, a leading research and human rights advocacy organization, the number of people detained at the US-Mexico border is at its lowest level since the 1970’s, but the number of asylum requests from Central America is rising. WOLA says the spike is due to violence in the countries from which asylum-seekers are fleeing, and “there is no evidence that criminal groups like the MS-13 are taking advantage of the U.S. asylum or immigration system to place gang leaders in the United States.” An analysis of how US aid is used across the Northern Triangle is available here.
04.04.2019	Rep. Moulton Announces Olin Superfund Site Named Top EPA Priority April 4th, 2019 WASHINGTON — This week, the US Environmental Protection Agency has placed the Olin Superfund site in Wilmington on the Administrator’s Emphasis List, meaning it is on the top of the EPA’s to-do list. In a press release announcing the news, the EPA cited the community’s coordinated effort to demonstrate the sites potential for economic development. Representative Seth Moulton (MA-06) has been working with state and local leaders and the community’s business owners to prime the area for redevelopment. “Cleaning up our environment creates jobs and improves our cities and towns–not to mention leaving a healthier planet for our kids. Wilmington will be safer and healthier, and its economy will be stronger, when the Olin Site is restored,” Moulton said. “We got this designation thanks to the strong cooperation between local businesses and leaders at every level–clearly the EPA saw the united front within our community to fix this problem.” State Representative Dave Robertson said: “I am very pleased to hear about this great news that the EPA expedited the Olin Chemical Site. This is the culmination of literally years of work, debate, and cooperation by the town, state and federal governments. I hope that the work proceeds quickly, and I will be sure to watch closely with Congressman Moulton to ensure the clean-up is not rushed, but rather to the standards that Wilmington residents deserve.” The EPA added the Olin Chemical Superfund site to its Administrator’s Emphasis on April 1, 2019, with “the goal of expediting the selection of a remedy to remediate soil, surface water, and areas of highest ground contamination”. Since the list’s inception, 15 cites across the country have been added and successfully removed from the list. The EPA’s full press release can be found here. ###
03.28.2019	Veterans Team Up to Enhance Gold Star Family Benefits March 28th, 2019 WASHINGTON – Representative Michael Waltz (FL-R), a combat veteran and member of the House Armed Services Committee, introduced bipartisan legislation with Representatives Seth Moulton (MA-D) and Don Bacon (NE-R) that would increase benefits for Gold Star families. The SFC Brian Woods Gold Star and Military Survivors Act (H.R.1911) is named in honor of Army Sgt. 1st Class William B. Woods Jr. who served with Waltz as an Army Green Beret and was killed on August 16, 2009 in Afghanistan during Operation Enduring Freedom. The bill would: Allow survivors that re-married to continue to have access to on-base facilities if they have dependent children; Allow surviving spouses of servicemembers who were killed while on duty to continue to receive Dependency and Indemnity Compensation (DIC) or Survivor Benefit Plan (SBP) insurance should they re-marry and ensures survivors that re-married before the bill becomes law are eligible to collect benefits moving forward; Direct the Pentagon to pay the transportation costs of remains for those killed in combat back to their hometown for any memorial services and to a national cemetery of the surviving family’s choice (current law only authorizes one trip, meaning families must often choose between a funeral in their community or at a National Cemetery far from home); and Authorize the Pentagon to extend the existing child care service assistance program (for civilian providers) to survivors of service members that die in the line of duty. “The knock on the door that initiates a family into the Gold Star community is the most dreaded moment in a military family’s life,” Waltz said. “From that moment forward, these families deserve our best and most meaningful commitment in honor of their loved one’s sacrifice for our freedom and security. This bill would ensure the Gold Star families of our fallen are cared for by giving their children and spouses the lifelong benefits they deserve and transportation costs for a burial and memorial worthy of their sacrifice.” “When Gold Star spouses are handed a folded flag, it comes with a sacred commitment from the American people. That commitment is for life,” said Moulton. “That means Gold Star families should have the peace of mind that comes with knowing child care and funeral expenses are taken care of, and that they will receive the nation’s lifelong financial support.” “Our Gold Star and surviving family members deserve a commitment for life,” Bacon said. “The SFC Brian Woods Gold Star and Military Survivors Act keeps faith with the spouses and families of the fallen. Since becoming a Member of Congress I have committed myself to this cause. This legislation builds on the important progress we made last year and I am proud to co-sponsor this important next step with fellow veteran Representative Waltz.” A PDF of the bill is available here.
03.22.2019	Moulton Statement on the Conclusion of the Special Counsel’s Investigation March 22nd, 2019 Salem, Mass.— Today, Special Counsel Robert Mueller delivered his report to the United States Attorney General. Representative Seth Moulton (MA-06) made the following statement: “Special Counsel Robert Mueller is a moral leader who volunteered to serve his country in combat in Vietnam and in the administrations of both Republicans and Democrats in Washington. I trust what he lays out in the report he delivered today. Every American deserves to see the full report, not the Executive Branch’s whitewashed version of it. Congress must make sure the public gets that chance. Separate from the report, Congress must also continue its independent investigations into the various, credible allegations against President Trump and his family and associates until the American public knows the whole truth. Since our country was founded, the Office of the President of the United States has stood for something greater than its occupant. President Franklin D. Roosevelt engraved the words of John Adams on the mantle of the White House in 1945: “May none but Honest and Wise men ever rule under This Roof.” The Constitutional duties of Congress and Robert Mueller strive to uphold that ideal.”
03.22.2019	Moulton, NH Chief Justice John Broderick Discussion Mental Health at Bedford VA Monday March 22nd, 2019 March 22, 2019 BEDFORD, Mass.— Representative Seth Moulton (MA-06) and former New Hampshire Supreme Court Chief Justice John Broderick will discuss mental health at the Bedford VA this Monday. The public is invited to attend. BACKGROUND: Justice Broderick frequently joins schools and community groups throughout New England for conversations about mental health. Last year, WBUR profiled his efforts to raise awareness about mental health issues by telling his family’s story. Representative Seth Moulton is a leader in Congress on veteran and military mental health policy. For example, last year he spearheaded efforts to include funds in the FY2019 National Defense Authorization Act to enable the Department of Defense to create and make public a strategy for improving care at the Defense Health Agency. Later next week, Moulton will speak with the Defense Department’s leaders about the FY 2020 budget at four House Armed Services Committee hearings. Moulton has also worked with author Sebastian Junger to create a new format of town halls where veterans have a place to discuss their experiences in war and raise mental health issues among other veterans. EVENT DETAILS DATE: MONDAY, MARCH 25, 2019 TIME: 10:00 AM LOCATION: Bedford VAMC Theater Building 78, Ground Floor, Room 36. Edith Nourse Rogers Memorial Veterans Hospital 200 Springs Road Bedford, MA 01730 A map of the facility is available here. The theater is building 78 on the map.
03.22.2019	Moulton Statement on North Korean Sanctions Reversal March 22nd, 2019 SALEM, Mass.— After the president reversed day-old sanctions on North Korea and the White House said that it is because the president “likes Chairman Kim and doesn’t think the sanctions will be necessary,” Representative Seth Moulton (MA-06) made the following statement: America’s foreign policy should follow my division’s motto in the Marines: “No better friend, no worse enemy.” That means supporting our allies–and our troops, like John McCain–and standing up to our enemies, like North Korea. North Korea has only ever responded to pressure. The president’s decision to retreat on sanctions is weak, and that’s exactly how our allies and our enemies will see it. It’s a signal to our enemies to take advantage of us and to our friends not to trust our Commander-in-Chief. If the president hasn’t figured out by now that being “nice” to their dictator isn’t going to work, Congress must tell him. ###
03.19.2019	Moulton Hosting Town Hall this Saturday March 19th, 2019 March 19, 2019 Salem, Mass.— Representative Seth Moulton (MA-06) will host a town hall this Saturday at the Danvers Senior Center. “One of my most fundamental duties as a Member of Congress is being accessible and accountable to the people I represent,” Rep. Moulton said. “I’m looking forward to hearing about what matters most to our community at Saturday’s town hall in Danvers.” EVENT DETAILS DATE: SATURDAY, MARCH 23, 2019 TIME: 1:15 pm LOCATION: Danvers Senior Center 25 Stone Street Danvers, MA 01923 Doors open approximately 20 minutes in advance. ###
03.15.2019	Moulton Statement New Zealand Terrorist Attack March 15th, 2019 Salem, Mass.—Following a terrorist attack in Christchurch, New Zealand, U.S. Representative Seth Moulton (MA-06) issued the following statement: “I grieve with the families of those in New Zealand who were murdered while practicing a fundamental human right–the freedom of religion. We stand together to condemn this horrendous act, which serves as a stark reminder that terrorism and hate still threaten communities worldwide.”
03.14.2019	Moulton Partners with Bipartisan, Bicameral Group of Members to Introduce Tech Legislation that Addresses Workforce Shortage March 14th, 2019 Washington, D.C. –Today, Representatives Seth Moulton (MA-6) and Jaime Herrera Beutler (WA-3), with Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO), Martin Heinrich (D-NM), Ed Markey (D-MA), and Jerry Moran (R-KS) reintroduced the Championing Apprenticeships for New Careers and Employees in Technology (CHANCE in Tech) Act. The bipartisan legislation would provide industry intermediaries, like state tech associations, the ability to receive federal grants to develop apprenticeships within the technology sector. It also works to alleviate the skills gap that may slow the continued growth of the technology sector. Now more than ever before, the U.S. economy is dependent on the technology industry to create jobs and expand economic growth. According to CompTIA, in 2017 alone, the technology sector contributed more than $1.5 trillion to the U.S. economy, employed more than 11.5 million workers, and added more than 200,000 new jobs. In fact, one in ten workers in Massachusetts works in technology, the highest concentration of tech workers nationwide. “Our economy and the types of jobs Americans do are changing fast, but Congress is moving slowly to prepare the country for those changes. Let’s pass the CHANCE in Tech Act so workers have an easier time learning the skills they need to land one of the hundreds of thousands of great-paying technology jobs currently available across the country,” said Representative Moulton. “As the tech industry continues to grow in Southwest Washington, the need is paramount for skilled workers to fill open positions and fuel innovation,” said Representative Herrera Beutler. “I’m proud to join my colleagues in offering a bipartisan solution that helps both employers and job-seekers by allowing tech employers to partner with local schools and training programs to expand apprenticeships. Our economy benefits when we equip workers with quality on-the-job skills training that will help them succeed in high-paying career fields.” “As the technology sector begins to play an even larger role in our economy, it’s important our workforce has the necessary skills and training to perform these jobs,” said Senator Gardner. “The technology industry currently faces a workforce shortage and Congress must work together to address this problem. This bipartisan legislation is an innovative solution to address the workforce shortage and will result in more Coloradans and Americans across the country receiving the proper training to enter the technology industry. The next 100 years will be defined by our ability to compete in the technology sector and the CHANCE in Tech Act will help the United States remain the global leader in technological developments.” “As the technology sector continues to grow in New Mexico and across the country, we need to ensure that our students have the skills they need to compete for these high-paying jobs,” said Senator Heinrich. “By encouraging apprenticeship programs for the tech sector, we can continue to strengthen the STEM pipeline and help New Mexico develop its vibrant technology economy. This bill will connect students, training programs, and community colleges in New Mexico to the growing tech sector where jobs are opening up every day, and create a more prosperous future for our state.” “Graduates want high quality jobs, and growing technology companies want skilled employees – the CHANCE in Tech Act provides an opportunity to bridge this gap,” said Senator Markey. “The expanding technology sector offers opportunities for good 21st century jobs, and partnerships between employers and schools will ensure that students graduate with the skills and experiences they need to be qualified for such jobs. This bill has great potential to increase employment and advance technological initiatives across the country.” “Nearly every conversation I have with business owners across Kansas leads to a discussion about their need for workers who are trained and motivated to take tech-related jobs,” said Senator Moran. “This bipartisan legislation will help give industry leaders the resources they need to create tech apprenticeships, attract talent and connect American workers with meaningful, good-paying jobs.” Joining Moulton and Herrera Buetler as original cosponsors are: Representatives Derek Kilmer (WA-06), Tom Emmer (MN-06), Kathleen Rice (NY-04), Brian Fitzpatrick (PA-01), Stephanie Murphy (FL-07), Jim Himes (CT-04), Tim Ryan (OH-13), Tom O’Halleran (AZ-01), and Connor Lamb (PA-17).
03.07.2019	Moulton, Rutherford lead Bipartisan Effort in Congress to SAVE Right Whales March 7th, 2019 March 7, 2019 WASHINGTON—Today, Representatives Seth Moulton (MA-06) and John Rutherford (FL-04) reintroduced the Scientific Assistance for Very Endangered (SAVE) Right Whales Act. Representatives Bill Keating (MA-09), Jared Huffman (CA-02), and Rep. Bill Posey (FL-08), joined them as original sponsors. According to the Anderson Cabot Center for Ocean Life at the New England Aquarium, the North Atlantic right whale is one of the rarest whales in the world. Today, only about 425 North Atlantic Right Whales remain. The SAVE Right Whales Act of 2019 would create government grants that states, non-profits, and members of the fishing and marine shipping industries can use to fund research and efforts that restore the North Atlantic right whale population. “We humans have nearly killed every right whale in existence through our direct and indirect actions over the past two centuries.” Moulton said. “Now we have a choice:we can be the generation that brings the right whale back, or the generation that allows their extinction. Let’s not miss this unique moment. Passing the SAVE Right Whales Act is the first of many steps that Congress should take to help restore the right whale population.” “The North Atlantic right whale is on the brink of extinction. We must empower scientists, fishermen, and government to work together to find innovative solutions to rebuild this marine mammal species,” Rutherford said. “The loss of the right whale would disrupt the entire ocean ecosystem – upsetting fish stock viability, tourism, and our coastal economies that rely on healthy oceans. I am proud to team up with my congressional colleagues on this important mission.” “With fewer than 425 right whales remaining, we must do everything we can to save them from extinction,” said Huffman. “This issue is critically important, which is why I’m convening a hearing this week in the Water, Oceans, and Wildlife subcommittee to dig deeper into the many threats facing the right whale and hear from experts on the best path forward. I’m grateful to join Rep. Moulton in introducing his SAVE Right Whales Act, which supports research and new technology development so that we can find solutions to save this iconic species.” “This bill is an important step in protecting and restoring the population of our right whales. Florida is home to diverse marine wildlife which is critical to maintaining the balance of our delicate ecosystem. It’s something we all depend on,” said Posey. In addition to the grants, the bill would fund government research to track plankton, the whales’ main source of food. According to Defenders of Wildlife, a 70-ton right whale eats about 2,600 pounds of zooplankton per day during peak feeding season. Researchers want to learn more about how human actions affect zooplankton, which in turn affects the health and migration patterns of the whales. Today’s bill reintroduction comes in the middle of right whale calving season. Scientists in Florida and Georgia, have spotted seven right whale calves so far this year. This is good news after last year, when no calves were spotted and an estimated 17 adult right whales died. According to Defenders of Wildlife, right whales only give birth every four years, and they are not able to reproduce until age eight. So, a single death among the whales able to reproduce threatens the entire species. The House Committee on Natural Resources will hold a hearing examining threats to the North Atlantic right whales this morning. A livestream will be available here starting at 10:00 AM EST. In addition to bipartisan support in Congress, the SAVE Right Whales Act has support from scientists, conservationists, and fishermen from across the country. Dr. Scott Kraus, the Vice President and Senior Science Advisor for the Anderson Cabot Center at the New England Aquarium will testify at this morning’s hearing. “The SAVE Act is a good step to ensure that fishermen and right whales continue to coexist in the Atlantic Ocean,” he said. “Our industry has already taken significant steps to reduce whale entanglements, but clearly more can be done and must be done,” said John Pappalardo, CEO of the Cape Cod Commercial Fishermen’s Alliance. “This legislation will provide critical funding that will allow us to continue and expand our efforts to find solutions that will allow fishermen and right whales to coexist.” Nora Apter, Legislative Advocate for the Natural Resources Defense Council said: “We are at a pivotal point in the fight to save the North Atlantic right whale from extinction. This bipartisan legislation is critical to support the recovery of this iconic species before it’s too late. Leaders in Congress must take immediate action by taking up and passing the SAVE Right Whales Act on the House floor this year.” The following organizationshave endorsed the SAVE Right Whales Act: Animal Welfare Institute Born Free USA Cape Cod Commercial Fishermen’s Alliance Center for Biological Diversity Cetacean Society International Conservation Law Foundation Defenders of Wildlife Earth Law Center Earthjustice Endangered Species Coalition Environment America Friends of the Earth Humane Society Legislative Fund International Fund for Animal Welfare International Marine Mammal Project of Earth Island Institute Marine Mammal Alliance Nantucket Natural Resources Defense Council NY4WHALES Ocean Conservation Research Oceana Sanctuary Education Advisory Specialists SEAS LLC Save Animals Facing Extinction Save the Manatee SeaWorld Parks Seven Circles Foundation Sierra Club The Humane Society of the United States The Pew Charitable Trusts Women Working for Oceans World Wildlife Fund Members of these groups also voiced their support for the bill: Cathy Liss, President, Animal Welfare Institute said: “AWI thanks Congressman Moulton for once again introducing the SAVE Right Whales Act and for his continued leadership. This bipartisan legislation would secure critically important funding and facilitate collaborative efforts to bring much-needed protections for the endangered North Atlantic right whale, a species iconic to the entire East Coast.” CT Harry, Marine Campaigner for IFAW said: “The North Atlantic right whale is in crisis. With a population of fewer than 420, now more than ever, the re-introduction of the SAVE Right Whales Act is imperative to enabling scientists, conservationists, and industry to work together to save this iconic animal from fishing gear entanglements and fatal ship strikes. The time to SAVE the right whale from extinction is now.” Dr. Priscilla Brooks, Vice President and Director of Ocean Conservation at Conservation Law Foundation said: “North Atlantic right whales are in dire need of our help. This magnificent species is on the brink of extinction, with less than 420 whales remaining on the planet. We need to develop long-term solutions to protect right whales as soon as possible, and this bill is a meaningful step forward. We’re thankful for Representative Moulton’s leadership on this critically important issue.” Jamie Rappaport Clark, president and CEO of Defenders of Wildlife said: “In the past two years alone, North Atlantic right whales have experienced record-breaking losses from fishing gear entanglements and ship strikes. Thank you to Representative Moulton for spearheading legislation to provide funding for the innovation and collaboration that these desperately imperiled whales need to survive and recover. The conservation actions facilitated by this legislation could literally make the difference between life and death for these whales.” Sara Amundson, President, Humane Society Legislative Fund said: “We don’t have a minute to waste: North Atlantic right whales could become extinct within our lifetimes. Research is urgently needed to understand and alleviate the threats the whales encounter along their East Coast migratory route. I applaud Representatives Moulton and Rutherford for recognizing this crisis and introducing the SAVE Right Whales Act.” ###
02.28.2019	Moulton Statement on the Bipartisan Background Checks Act of 2019 February 28th, 2019 Moulton is an original co-sponsor of H.R. 8, the first major piece of gun safety policy to pass in the House since 1994. WASHINGTON – Yesterday, the House of Representatives passed a major gun safety bill for the first time since 1994. Representative Seth Moulton (MA-06) is an original co-sponsor of the The Bipartisan Background Checks Act (H.R. 8), which would require background checks for the most common ways Americans buy guns. After the vote, Moulton made the following statement: “For decades, Congress has failed to muster the political courage to protect our nation from gun violence. The bill that passed today would expand background check requirements to the most common ways someone can buy a gun–an idea almost every American supports. After so many moments of silence, today’s vote is the first of what must be many more moments of action to protect Americans from gun violence. Our nation should commend the Republicans who joined with Democrats today for their moral courage. Their constituents will be safer because they did the right thing today so long as the Senate and the President follow their examples.” Earlier this week, ahead of the vote, Moulton challenged every Member of Congress to find the political courage to pass the bill. Audio and video of his speech is available here. Specifically, The Bipartisan Background Checks Act would require unlicensed firearms sellers to conduct a background check on every American who buys a gun at a gun show, through an online sale, or elsewhere. It also requires background checks for gun transfers. The bill makes some exemptions for families where one family member gives another family member a gun, and for law enforcement and military personnel who need a gun for official duty. A report this week in in The New York Times noted that last year the federal background check system prevented 88,000 gun sales to prohibited buyers including criminals and domestic abusers. According to Bloomberg this concept is supported by most Americans–even gun owners. One month after last year’s attack at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida where 17 students were killed and 14 others were wounded, Bloomberg surveyed Americans about this idea. They found that 69 percent of NRA members, 78 percent of gun owners who were not members of the NRA and 89 percent of respondents who did not own guns supported expanded background checks. Later today, the House will vote on The Enhanced Background Checks Act (H.R. 1112), which would provide the FBI at minimum 20 days to conduct background checks on gun buyers when a purchaser cannot be automatically approved or denied. Current law allows a purchaser to pick up a firearm if FBI cannot conclude their investigation in three days. In 2015, a white supremacist in Charlestown, South Carolina exploited this loophole to buy a gun and murder nine congregants of the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church. The background check process was unable to locate a drug possession charge in his criminal history that would have prevented this sale during the three-day period. The man picked up his gun on the fourth day. Moulton will vote in favor of the bill. ###
02.28.2019	Moulton Statement on Hanoi Summit February 28th, 2019 WASHINGTON – Following today’s conclusion of the summit between North Korea’s Kim Jong Un and President Donald Trump in Hanoi, Vietnam, Representative Seth Moulton (MA-06) made the following statement: “American foreign policy is only successful when our leaders have the moral courage to stand for what’s right. In the end, the Hanoi Summit was yet another world stage where the president demonstrated his continued willingness to believe the word of dictators and autocrats over the credible assessments of the American intelligence community. Despite clear evidence that Otto Warmbier was harmed–ultimately fatally–in North Korean custody, the president said he believed Kim Jong Un was not responsible even after information from Warmbier’s family and American officials emerged that was so compelling to the president that he brought Warmbier’s parents to the State of the Union last year. At the same time that the president was embracing Kim in Hanoi, his son-in-law was in Saudi Arabia calling for closer ties to Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, who ordered the torture and gruesome murder of Washington Post columnist Jamal Khashoggi in Turkey. The president has said repeatedly he believes the Crown Prince over our intelligence community’s conclusive and overwhelming assessment that Bin Salman orchestrated Khashoggi’s murder. Publicity stunts that embrace dictators and discredit our intelligence community are not a winning diplomatic strategy. They broadcast to the world that America’s leaders will not hold repressive regimes accountable for attacks against our country, against our allies, and against human rights. The Helsinki Summit set this stage when the president told the world he believed Vladimir Putin when he said that Russia didn’t interfere in our elections, despite overwhelming evidence of Russia’s influence campaign. Because the president will not say it, every American must make clear: There is no greater friend and no worse enemy than America. We do not stand for killing journalists and college students. We will always confront the nations that threaten our democratic process. And we will never stop demanding that our leaders have the moral clarity to embrace the Americans around the world who risk their lives to collect intelligence rather than Putin, Kim and Bin Salman.” Prior to the summit, Moulton said that a good deal with North Korea would consist of a comprehensive nuclear agreement that includes plans for sequenced disarmament, rigorous inspection and verification requirements, and an end to ballistic missile development. The president left Hanoi without progress on these areas. ###
02.27.2019	Whitehouse, Cotton, Moulton, King Reintroduce ALS Disability Insurance Access Act February 27th, 2019 Legislation would eliminate the five-month waiting period before ALS patients can access disability benefits Washington, DC – U.S. Senators Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI) and Tom Cotton (R-AR) and Congressmen Seth Moulton (D-MA) and Peter King (R-NY) have reintroduced the ALS Disability Insurance Access Act, bipartisan legislation to eliminate the five-month waiting period before ALS patients can receive the Social Security Disability Insurance benefits they earned by contributing into Social Security. This legislation would build on previous steps by Congress and the Social Security Administration to accommodate the difficult prognosis for those diagnosed with ALS. Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, commonly known as ALS or Lou Gehrig’s disease, is a neurodegenerative disease affecting the ability of the brain to control muscle movements. Individuals with ALS progressively lose the ability to speak, walk, and breathe. The intended purpose of a five-month waiting period is to allow temporary conditions to reverse. However, there is currently no cure or treatment to halt or undo the effects of ALS, and some ALS patients lose their fight with the disease before ever receiving benefits. The ALS Disability Insurance Access Act would help alleviate some of the financial hardship that accompanies an ALS diagnosis, and support those living with ALS and their families. “I am proud to co-sponsor this bill to eliminate the waiting period for those battling ALS,” said Senator Whitehouse. “It takes tremendous courage from patients, family members, and friends to cope with an ALS diagnosis. I hope that as a simple act of humanity we can set aside bureaucratic considerations and allow Americans who face the extraordinary blow of this diagnosis to immediately receive the benefits they have earned.” “ALS is a progressive and disabling disease for which there is no cure. Those who suffer from this terrible disease endure enough pain, and they shouldn’t be subject to the usual waiting period for disability benefits—especially given their tragically short life expectancy,” said Cotton. “Nobody bravely fighting Lou Gehrig’s Disease should have to wait months for benefits that will help them confront the disease because of government red tape,” Representative Moulton said. “Every American pays into Social Security with the idea that we have each other’s backs and that those benefits will become available to us when we need them—whether it is because of an ALS diagnosis, a disability or simply to help make ends meet in retirement. This bill will help our country keep that promise.” “When battling an unforgiving and aggressive disease such as ALS, time is of the essence. That is why Congress must ensure that those diagnosed with this disease can immediately receive the SSDI benefits they have earned and try to mitigate the certain and devastating financial costs of their fight,” said Congressman King. “Over the course of a five-month waiting period, people living with ALS will have only experienced progressive loss of function and will have incurred significant expenses for care and treatment,” said Calaneet Balas, President and CEO of The ALS Association. “We urge Congress to pass this legislation and remove the arbitrary five-month waiting period that creates an unfair financial burden on people whose life expectancy is so tragically abbreviated. People with ALS have earned and should receive both Medicare and Social Security Disability Insurance benefits immediately. They simply don’t have months to wait.” In addition to Whitehouse and Cotton, the legislation is cosponsored in the Senate by Senators Michael Bennet (D-CO), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Roy Blunt (R-MO), Cory Booker (D-NJ), John Boozman (R-AR), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV), Ben Cardin (D-MD), Bill Cassidy (R-LA), Susan Collins (R-ME), Chris Coons (D-DE), Kevin Cramer (R-ND), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Kamala Harris (D-CA), Doug Jones (D-AL), John Kennedy (R-LA), Angus King (I-ME), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Patrick Leahy (D-VT), Ed Markey (D-MA), Martha McSally (R-AZ), Bob Menendez (D-NJ), Jeff Merkley (D-OR), Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), Jack Reed (D-RI), Jacky Rosen (D-NV), Mike Rounds (R-SD), Marco Rubio (R-FL), Bernie Sanders (I-VT), Chuck Schumer (D-NY), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), Kyrsten Sinema (D-AZ), Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Jon Tester (D-MT), Thom Tillis (R-NC), Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), and Roger Wicker (R-MS). The companion legislation in the U.S. House of Representatives is cosponsored by 89 Members. ###
02.26.2019	Moulton Plan to Increase Funding for the Essex National Heritage Area Headed to White House February 26th, 2019 WASHINGTON – Today, the House of Representatives passed the bipartisan Natural Resources Management Act, which Outside Magazine has called “the most wide-reaching and important public lands legislation passed since the 1970s.” The Act includes text of a bill Representative Seth Moulton, former Representative Niki Tsongas and Senator Ed Markey championed to increase the amount of money the Essex National Heritage Area can receive from Congress over the program’s lifetime. The Senate passed its version of the bill earlier this month. It is widely expected to become law. “People often say that the government should run more like a business. Any business that invests $17 million and generates a $150 million return, with the added benefit of employing thousands of people, should double down on that investment, not shut the program down,” Moulton said. “That’s what this bill makes possible for the Essex National Heritage Area. Senator Markey and former Representative Tsongas have been great partners in the effort, and I will keep working with our state’s representatives to preserve our history and grow our region’s economy.” The Essex National Heritage Area spans 500 square-miles and connects 34 cities and towns from Lynn and Salem to Amesbury and Newburyport. Since it was created in 1996, Congress has been able to invest up to $17 million in the Area over time. The bill passed today increases the amount of funding the area is eligible to receive to $20 million. Annie Harris, the Director of the Essex National Heritage Area said: “I am incredibly happy that this legislation passed. The passage of this major public lands legislation is an extraordinary accomplishment and a great credit to our Massachusetts legislators. Essex Heritage expects to receive about $628,000 in federal funds this year and we will use these funds to match and leverage another $2 million in projects and programs throughout Essex County.” Congress’s investment in the Essex National Heritage Area supports about 2,000 jobs and generates more than $150 million in local economic activity. That economic activity leads to $14.3 million in tax revenue. Today’s bill is the first step to increasing funding for the National Heritage Area and expanding its life. The House and Senate Appropriations Committees will determine how much funding the Area receives later this year. Additionally, the law that created the Essex National Heritage Area in 1996 had a sunset clause that takes effect in 2021. Moulton and other Massachusetts lawmakers are working to fix that. Last Congress, Moulton and Markey introduced a standalone bill with former Representative Niki Tsongas that would lift the sunset. Moulton plans to work with members of the state’s congressional delegation to re-introduce it later this year. According to the National Park Service, National Heritage Areas are Congressionally-designated places where “natural, cultural, and historic resources combine to form a cohesive, nationally important landscape.” Unlike National Parks, most National Heritage Areas are within large communities and managed by independent, local non-profits that receive funds from the federal government through the Park Service. Research from the Park Service indicates every $1.00 Congress invests in a National Heritage Area leads to $5.50 in local economic activity. The Natural Resources Management Act contains 169 other provisions including the permanent reauthorization of the Land and Water Conservation Fund. The Fund uses revenue from offshore mineral and gas leases to protect millions of acres of public land including state and local parks, wetlands and historic battlefields. Renewing the LWCF has historically been an area of strong bipartisan cooperation in Congress. But, Congress failed to renew LWCF when it expired late last year. According to Outside, since the LWCF lapsed, America’s protected lands have lost $2.5 million in funding every day. In addition to renewing LWCF, the bill funds the 21st Century Conservation Service Corps, a national service program that will pair young Americans with veterans on projects that restore national parks and public lands. The bill also renews an Obama-era program that gives every American fourth grader free admission to the National Parks System, and a separate program that will restore historic buildings at Historically Black Colleges and Universities. ###
02.25.2019	Moulton Statement on Situation in Venezuela February 25th, 2019 SALEM, Mass. – Today Representative Seth Moulton (MA-06) made the following statement regarding the current situation in Venezuela: I support Venezuela’s interim president, Juan Guaidó, and the hundreds of thousands of Venezuelans who have taken to the streets to turn the page on the last twenty years of repression from Hugo Chavez and Nicolás Maduro. Mr. Maduro and his regime have denied hundreds of thousands of Venezuelans their human rights, ruined the economy of the wealthiest nation in South America, and caused a humanitarian disaster that has driven thousands to seek refuge throughout the hemisphere. Interim President Guaidó has a monumental task ahead to rebuild his proud country. We should work with our friends and allies in the region to ensure he has the assistance and resources he needs to reestablish the rule of law, address the humanitarian crisis, and move Venezuela forward so that his people have a country that is safe and strong. Before the situation deteriorates further, Congress and President Trump should work with our regional allies and partners to: Call on Juan Guaidó to organize free and open elections within 90 days of Maduro’s vacating office. Increase humanitarian operations in support of the millions of refugees flowing out of the country and offer Temporary Protected Status to Venezuelans in the United States with a clear plan of return for those refugees who can safely do so once the situation stabilizes. Guarantee an end to economic sanctions contingent upon Maduro’s vacating the presidency; Maduro should also voice support for the Constitutional process wherein Mr. Guaidó has been legitimately elected the Interim President. It is clear: Nicolás Maduro must go. It is also clear that Venezuela’s future leaders must abide by the rule of law and engage in full dialogue with Venezuela’s citizens to begin healing the wounds of the past twenty years of chavista rule. Here at home, we must also be cognizant of America’s mixed history of intervention in the region. President Trump does not have the required Congressional authorization to use force in Venezuela. Intervening militarily in Venezuela today would give credence to Maduro’s history of fear-mongering that the U.S. will do just that. As a separate and co-equal branch of government, it is Congress’s constitutional responsibility to prohibit the use of funds for any unauthorized military campaign.
02.21.2019	Reps. Moulton, Trahan and Keating: President Trump’s Sham Emergency Declaration Could Cost Massachusetts Military Facilities February 21st, 2019 Washington, DC – Today, Massachusetts House Armed Services Committee Members Representatives Seth Moulton (MA-06), Lori Trahan (MA-03), and Bill Keating (MA-09) condemned President Trump’s decision to declare a national emergency so that the president can circumvent Congress and use military construction funds to build his border wall. The decision to use military construction funds directly jeopardizes $90 million designated for use at the Hanscom Air Force Base to construct a Compound Semiconductor Laboratory-Microelectronics Integration Facility, and $42,600,000 at the Westover Air Reserve Base. “Whether President Trump recognizes it or not, we are competing with Russia and China to develop the next generation of advanced technologies that will allow us to lead the world in the 21st Century,” Rep. Seth Moulton (MA-06) said. “The proposed lab at Hanscom Air Force Base is exactly the type of investment the government should be making to keep our nation safe. The president’s decision to raid these funds from Hanscom–to pay for a 5th Century wall to address a 21st Century immigration problem–isn’t just a waste of money, it is a conscious decision to play politics with our national defense and economic competitiveness.” “The President declared an emergency over a crisis that doesn’t exist – even going so far to say during his press conference that he ‘didn’t need to do this.’ Now that he has, $90 million worth of military construction projects at the Hansom Air Force Base alone are at risk of being diverted to construct the President’s ineffective, wasteful wall that does nothing to secure our border. This is an outrage,” Rep. Lori Trahan (MA-03) said. “No president, Donald Trump included, has the right to undermine the authority of Congress by declaring a fake national emergency just because they didn’t get their way. I will be joining my colleagues in Congress to do our constitutional duty to protect our system of checks and balances and take strong action against the President’s emergency declaration which has now become a clear threat to our actual security and military readiness.” “This Administration’s emergency declaration is at best a reckless politicization of our military and at worst will threaten critical military construction projects,” Rep. Bill Keating (MA-09) said. “Last year, senior Department of Defense leaders testified before Congress about a backlog of $116 billion of unfunded facility requirements and that 32% of their facilities were in poor or failing condition. Just this week, there have been several articles highlighting the poor living conditions that military members and their families are facing on military bases throughout the country. Using military construction funds endangers military readiness and decreases the well-being of our servicemen and women. Additionally, Massachusetts has a number of critical infrastructure projects carried out by the US Army Corps of Engineers that could be threatened by this declaration, including maritime and public safety projects.”
02.05.2019	Moulton Announces State of the Union Guest February 5th, 2019 Moulton will bring U.S. Coast Guard Seaman Sarai Childs from Gloucester GLOUCESTER, Mass. – Today Representative Seth Moulton (MA-06) announced he will bring U.S. Coast Guard Seaman Sarai Childs as his guest to the State of the Union. Seaman Childs was one of the 42,000 members of the U.S. Coast Guard who went without pay for more than a month in the longest government shutdown in the nation’s history. “Sarai and all the men and women serving in the Coast Guard are on the front lines, protecting our nation’s borders,” Moulton said. “The people who serve our nation should never pay the price for the failure of leadership in Washington. But, of course, too often they do.” Seaman Childs enlisted in the Coast Guard at 33 years-old seeking a larger sense of purpose that her previous career in IT and recruiting for the Financial Services sector didn’t offer. Seaman Childs, her husband Darren and her two-year-old son Finely were directly affected by the federal government shutdown. To make ends meet, the family pulled Finely out of daycare and relied on donations from a food bank to protect their finances from a major hit. In a note to Rep. Moulton, Seaman Childs wrote: “During the shutdown received news that our son had been accepted into a preschool that would provide him an exceptional educational foundation. We had to put everything on hold. The financial stress missing a paycheck created was compounded by the stress of our child potentially missing an opportunity; in that moment, it felt like I was failing as a parent. My primary job as a mom is to love and care for my son, but also provide him with every possible opportunity to get a great start in life; I joined the Coast guard to provide those things for him.” During last month’s government shutdown, Admiral Karl Schultz, the Commandant of the Coast Guard, observed that the failure to pay the Coast Guard was the first time in American history that a branch of the Armed Forces went unpaid because of a lapse in appropriations. If Congress and the president fail to reach an agreement that funds the government by February 15th, the Coast Guard and all of the other agencies affected by the previous shutdown will be closed again. ###
02.04.2019	Seth Moulton’s Statement on the Trump Administration’s Withdrawal from the INF Treaty February 4th, 2019 Washington DC – Member of the House Armed Services Committee released the following statement about the Trump administration’s decision to suspend U.S. participation in the Intermediate-range Nuclear Forces (INF) Treaty. “Arms reduction agreements like the INF treaty strengthen our national security and protect our troops and allies, so you don’t just throw them out the window whenever there’s a violation: you make sure they’re enforced. Russia’s violation is a major issue that I was proud to bring to light myself in a hearing with the Vice Chair of the Joint Chiefs last year, the first time the Pentagon admitted the violation publicly. Now we need to enforce the treaty to get Russia in line and protect our NATO allies. “Instead, by giving up, the Trump Administration is giving in. And let’s be clear: we’re giving in to Putin once again. The administration is also asking for a new arms race, with our NATO allies caught dangerously in the middle.” Trump’s reaction to Russia’s violation is like if the Patriots respond to the first penalty against the Rams this weekend by quitting the game and walking off the field. That’s not how you win a Super Bowl, and it’s not how you win against Russia. The stakes are too high. We should be strengthening our national security by strengthening our NATO alliance. This move weakens both.” ###
02.04.2019	Moulton Announces State of the Union Guest February 4th, 2019 Moulton will bring U.S. Coast Guard Seaman Sarai Childs from Gloucester GLOUCESTER, Mass. – Today Representative Seth Moulton (MA-06) announced he will bring U.S. Coast Guard Seaman Sarai Childs as his guest to the State of the Union. Seaman Childs was one of the 42,000 members of the U.S. Coast Guard who went without pay for more than a month in the longest government shutdown in the nation’s history. “Sarai and all the men and women serving in the Coast Guard are on the front lines, protecting our nation’s borders,” Moulton said. “The people who serve our nation should never pay the price for the failure of leadership in Washington. But, of course, too often they do.” Seaman Childs enlisted in the Coast Guard at 33 years-old seeking a larger sense of purpose that her previous career in IT and recruiting for the Financial Services sector didn’t offer. Seaman Childs, her husband Darren and her two-year-old son Finely were directly affected by the federal government shutdown. To make ends meet, the family pulled Finely out of daycare and relied on donations from a food bank to protect their finances from a major hit. In a note to Rep. Moulton, Seaman Childs wrote: “During the shutdown received news that our son had been accepted into a preschool that would provide him an exceptional educational foundation. We had to put everything on hold. The financial stress missing a paycheck created was compounded by the stress of our child potentially missing an opportunity; in that moment, it felt like I was failing as a parent. My primary job as a mom is to love and care for my son, but also provide him with every possible opportunity to get a great start in life; I joined the Coast guard to provide those things for him.” During last month’s government shutdown, Admiral Karl Schultz, the Commandant of the Coast Guard, observed that the failure to pay the Coast Guard was the first time in American history that a branch of the Armed Forces went unpaid because of a lapse in appropriations. If Congress and the president fail to reach an agreement that funds the government by February 15th, the Coast Guard and all of the other agencies affected by the previous shutdown will be closed again. ###
02.01.2019	Moulton Helps Land $517 Million Army Contract to Build Helicopter Engines in Lynn February 1st, 2019 The Army’s contract will support new jobs in Lynn, supply critical parts for Army helicopters. SALEM, Mass. – Today the United States Army announced it has awarded a single $517,375,800 contract to General Electric’s Improved Turbine Engine Program, which will lead to new jobs in Lynn building turbines that power engines for the Army’s Apache and Black Hawk helicopters. Rep. Seth Moulton has been a strong advocate for the program as a member of the Armed Services Committee in Congress. “This is a game changer in terms of bringing good paying jobs to our community,” Moulton said. “GE Lynn is on the rebound, and this contract is going to be jet fuel for advanced manufacturing in Massachusetts.” The contract announced today will fund the Improved Turbine Engine Program (ITEP) at General Electric’s Lynn-based aviation facility. Moulton has pushed for years to secure funding for the ITEP in Lynn using his seat on the House Armed Services Committee. The committee writes the National Defense Authorization Act, which outlines the military’s annual funding priorities. Since arriving in Congress, Moulton has ensured the NDAA has supported the Improved Turbine Engine Program each fiscal year. The Improved Turbine Engine is a powerful new engine for the Army’s Apache and Black Hawk helicopters that will make the aircraft lighter and handle better. For example, the Army has sought a more powerful engine to support the Black Hawk, which has gained weight with the incorporation of new technologies. According to Defense News, the Black Hawk has gained, on average, 78 pounds per year since its inception. The helicopter’s weight and power affects where the Army can fly it. The Black Hawk is currently too heavy to fly in more than 50 percent of Afghanistan’s airspace, and it can only operate in about 84 percent of the world. The parts made in Lynn will play a key role in making the Black Hawk more powerful and lighter, which will allow the helicopter to fly in about 98 percent of the world’s airspace once the Improved Turbine Engine is on board. In 2016, Moulton helped secure the contract to design the engines at GE’s facility in Lynn, saying then, “It shows that GE Lynn is positioned to compete aggressively for a leading role in GE’s future engineering and advanced manufacturing needs.” The contract announced today sets the project timeline at 66-months and creates incentives to accelerate the schedule by up to 12-months to reduce development cost. The contract will yield prototypes that the Army can test before awarding a new contract for mass production. The Army’s next generation of helicopters, called the Future Vertical Lift family of helicopters, will also use the Improved Turbine Engine. These new aircraft include the Future Attack Reconnaissance Aircraft (FARA). To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium.
01.24.2019	Moulton Announces Zero-Interest Loans for Furloughed Federal Workers through Local Financial Institutions January 24th, 2019 Over 800,000 furloughed federal workers face missing a second paycheck Friday, as the government shutdown enters its second month Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA), announced the following local financial institutions have agreed to offer zero-interest loans to furloughed government workers for up to the full amount of their missed paycheck: Eastern Bank City of Boston Credit Union Congressional Federal Credit Union Hanscom Federal Credit Union Navy Federal Credit Union Service Credit Union Additional information about these loans, and the services being offered by other local financial institutions, will be kept up-to-date on Moulton’s website at moulton.house.gov/shutdown. “The American families bearing the brunt of this shutdown are our neighbors, not political bargaining chips,” said Moulton. “Our local banks and credit unions get this, and I applaud their efforts to ensure that these neighbors will be able to pay their mortgage, put food on the table, or afford college tuition during this difficult time.” The ongoing shutdown has had a direct impact on the Massachusetts Sixth District, which is home to an IRS Office in Andover and NOAA and Coast Guard offices in Gloucester. In response, Moulton’s office has held constituent office hours across the district to assist furloughed workers with unemployment, food stamps, and other needs, in addition to creating an online resource guide. Moulton has also vowed not to accept a paycheck until the shutdown ends. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium.
01.08.2019	Moulton to Decline Pay During Government Shutdown to Stand in Solidarity with Furloughed Federal Employees January 8th, 2019 Congressional office working furiously to help constituents affected by Trump’s shutdown Washington, D.C. – Today, as the Trump shutdown drags on, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) announced he would not be accepting pay as long as furloughed government employees are not paid. This Friday will be the first paycheck that workers will miss as a result of Trump’s shutdown. In a special video message where he offered instructions for constituents who need to apply for unemployment, Moulton says the following: “President Trump is playing politics with our border security, our public safety, and our federal employees. We’ve got to end this shutdown, but until we do, please reach out to us and we’ll help however we can.” Trump’s shutdown is having a direct impact on Constituents of the Sixth District. Moulton’s office has over a dozen open cases assisting constituents directly impacted by the shutdown including seven urgent cases that have been put on hold due to disruptions at federal agencies. Moulton has been using his social media platforms to highlight the personal stories of those being affected, like Brenda from Reading who worked for the federal government for three years in the mid-1980s. She recently applied for Social Security Disability and was approved quickly, but to finalize her application, she needs documentation from the Office of Personnel Management showing that she does not qualify for a pension. Until OPM re-opens, Brenda’s application cannot be completed, leaving her without income. In addition, Moulton’s congressional office is offering the following resources: A federal resources link, which went live on Saturday afternoon The office’s casework team has over a dozen open cases helping individuals affected by the shutdown The office’s casework team also held remote office hours at Gloucester City Hall to answer questions about local resources available and get contact information to open up cases for individuals having trouble with state benefit applications and federal agencies Moulton’s office has been working with colleagues in the statehouse to facilitate unemployment claims The office’s casework team is also providing support and information for constituents whose cases are affected by the shutdown, including referrals to community (i.e. non-government) resources and proactively reaching out to constituents whose casework is on hold Moulton is once again an original co-sponsor of the “Hold Congress Accountable Act,” legislation to reduce the salary of Members of Congress in the event of a government shutdown for as long as the shutdown continues. Moulton and colleagues originally introduced this legislation in the 115th Congress as H.R.1794. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter,Instagram, or Medium.
12.20.2018	Moulton Introduces Bill to Expand National Service Opportunities for Young Americans and Make College More Affordable December 20th, 2018 VIDEO: Moulton Introduces Bill to Expand National Service Opportunities for Young Americans and Make College More Affordable Moulton: “Our country benefits when more of our young people feel like they have a stake in its future.” Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA), announced the introduction of The 21st Century American Service Act in a special video message with Senator Tammy Duckworth. The 21st Century American Service Act would increase the number of service positions available through civilian national service organizations, educate all young Americans about the national service opportunities available to them, and reduce financial barriers that prohibit some young Americans from serving. “If you want to serve your country you should be able to. Period. But right now, there are far more people applying to national service programs than there are spots. National service should be for everyone, not just the wealthy. Senator Duckworth and I are going to do everything in our power to pass this bill, because our country benefits when more of our young people feel like they have a stake in its future.” Companion legislation was introduced in the Senate by Tammy Duckworth (D-IL), Senators Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), and Amy Klobuchar (D-MN). “Expanding national service opportunities like Americorps is vital to the strength of our nation,” said Duckworth. “Just as picking up a rifle to defend our country is ‘American Service,’ so is delivering water filters to communities afflicted by lead-contaminated water, picking up a stick of chalk to reach low-income children or a hammer to rebuild homes for those devastated by natural disasters. I’m proud to be working with Senators Gillibrand, Blumenthal, Klobuchar and Baldwin to make sure every young American has an opportunity to give back to serve their country.” The demand to serve in programs like AmeriCorps exceeds the number of available positions. The 21st Century American Service Act would make it possible for all Americans to have the chance to serve in some fashion, utilizing the energy of any and all young Americans willing to give back to their country. The legislation would reduce financial barriers that prevent people from doing a year of service by raising the living stipend for national service program participants and excluding it from being taxed as gross income, and increasing the national service education award and excluding the Americorps education benefit from being taxed as gross income. “When young Americans choose to spend a year of their life working at a service organization, there should be a path available for them to do it, no matter their background. Congress should expand opportunities for all young people to learn about these programs and reduce the financial barriers that too often get in the way when young people want to participate in them,” said Gillibrand. “I am proud to introduce the 21st Century American Service Act and I will continue to do everything I can to create pathways for young New Yorkers to serve their nation and help those in need.” “Participating in service helps reinforce the value of community and fosters important skills that benefit young volunteers for the rest of their lives,” said Blumenthal. “Since their inception, AmeriCorps and other national service organizations have helped Americans give back more than 1.4 billion hours of service to our nation. This bill will help these vital national service organizations support more service opportunities and remove the financial barriers that prevent many young people from taking advantage of them.” “National service provides people with the opportunity to make a positive difference and Wisconsinites are committed to serving their communities now more than ever,” said Baldwin. “This legislation will enhance national service opportunities for those who have answered the call to service and help organizations expand their impact and engage our citizens and communities.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium.
12.13.2018	Moulton Announces Support of Green New Deal December 13th, 2018 VIDEO: Moulton Announces Support of Green New Deal Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) announced his support for the Select Committee on a Green New Deal. Moulton, who is a member of the Climate Solutions Caucus, has been a champion of climate change solutions since coming to Congress. Moulton has introduced legislation to fund flood mitigation efforts, pushed for investment in coastal resiliency, and has been a leading voice in recognizing climate change as a national security threat. WATCH: https://twitter.com/sethmoulton/status/1073313134419546114 Key Point: “I am proud to announce my support for the Green New Deal. No issue is more important today for our children and our grandchildren than addressing climate change. And if we do so successfully, our nation will be stronger, our economy will be stronger, our communities will be more resilient, and the futures of our children and grandchildren will be much brighter.” Full Transcript: “I am proud to announce my support for the Green New Deal. No issue is more important today for our children and our grandchildren than addressing climate change. And if we do so successfully, our nation will be stronger, our economy will be stronger, our communities will be more resilient, and the futures of our children and grandchildren will be much brighter. We see the effects of climate change every single day. The horrific wildfires that are truly unprecedented in California. The communities in the southeast, especially [ the ones] that have been decimated by so many hurricanes over the last decade. And daily at home, in my communities that I represent on the North Shore in Massachusetts. Fisheries are being put out of business by warming oceans, and rising sea levels are threatening the coastal communities that have been home to people for generations. So we have to take action on this. And it’s no secret why a new generation of leaders in Congress and around this country are stepping up to address climate change. So I’m proud to support the Green New Deal as part of this initiative. I’m proud to work on it to make sure that we get meaningful change, meaningful legislation, meaningful progress, on an issue that is so fundamentally important to our future.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium.
10.15.2018	Moulton Announces $1M Federal Grant for Amastan Technologies to Develop Advanced Materials for Electric Vehicle Batteries October 15th, 2018 Salem, MA – Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) announced today that MA-based, North Andover Amastan Technologies, a leading producer of high-value, advanced materials using microwave plasma production systems, has been awarded a $1 million Phase II Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) grant through the U.S. Department of Energy’s (DOE) Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy (EERE) to continue its development of advanced cathode materials for electric vehicle (EV) batteries. The grant follows Amastan’s completion of a successful Phase I program to develop cathode materials using its proprietary UniMelt™ advanced manufacturing platform. “Amastan Technologies is just one of the many innovative technology companies in the 6th Congressional District,” said Moulton. “They are an outstanding example of applying technology to improving energy storage for electric vehicles, which is key to reducing our dependence on fossil fuels and addressing the challenges posed by climate change. I am thrilled to support Amastan Technologies in its quest to reduce battery costs while also adding new advanced manufacturing jobs to our region.” “As the availability and use of electronic vehicles in the United States and around the world continues to grow, it is important that industry and government collaboratively work together to develop innovations that will continue to make EVs safer, more efficient, and less costly,” said Aaron Bent, PhD, Chief Executive Officer of Amastan Technologies. “This program represents an important public-private effort to help achieve these goals, and we are delighted to receive this grant from the EERE to continue our work to accelerate Amastan’s battery technology program.” A larger portion of the component costs for an electric vehicle can be attributed to its battery, which is currently estimated to cost ~$200 per kilowatt hour. One path to significantly reducing the cost per kilowatt hour is by reducing the cost of cathode materials, which account for up to 25 percent of the battery cost, and improving the capacity and energy density of these materials by increasing their nickel content. Amastan can produce high-performance cathode materials in a fraction of the time compared to existing manufacturing processes. Utilizing its UniMelt™ Microwave Plasma platform, the company will reduce what is normally a multi-day, multi-step batch process in existing traditional processes to just seconds in a continuous process, while maintaining tight control of the material’s phase purity, size, and size distribution. This exponentially increases production efficiencies while lowering production costs and the environmental impact associated with manufacturing these materials. “Phase I of this project successfully validated the feasibility and versatility of our UniMelt™ process to produce commercially viable cathode materials for lithium ion batteries,” said Kamal Hadidi, PhD, Founder and Chief Technology Officer. “Our work in Phase II will focus on scaling up our process for commercial-level production, further optimizing the material’s performance, and reducing overall production costs.”
10.10.2018	Moulton Calls on Columbia Gas and National Grid to Deploy Locked-Out Steelworkers to Assist with Recovery Efforts October 10th, 2018 Washington, D.C. – Hundreds of skilled steel workers remain locked-out of jobs at a time when they’re needed most. As the events in Woburn demonstrated, Columbia Gas and National Grid’s work is far from over; it might only be just beginning. Please find attached and see below a letter Seth sent asking National Grid and Columbia Gas to work collaboratively to deploy Massachusetts steelworkers to help with ongoing recovery efforts. Stephen H. Bryant President and Chief Operating Officer Columbia Gas of Massachusetts 4 Technology Drive Westborough, MA 01581 Marcy Reed Massachusetts President and Chief Operating Officer National Grid P.O. BOX 960 Northborough, MA 01532 Angela M. O’Connor Chairman Massachusetts Department of Public Utilities 1 South Station, 5th Floor Boston, MA 02110 Dear Mr. Bryant, Ms. Reed, and Chairman O’Connor: As the communities of North Andover, Andover, and Lawrence continue to rebuild following the horrific gas explosions of September 13, 2018, I write to urge you to work collaboratively to deploy the steelworkers (USW Local 12003 and USW Local 12012) who have been locked out by National Grid to assist in the recovery efforts. Over the next several weeks, Columbia Gas of Massachusetts (Columbia Gas) will be pushing forward with its Greater Lawrence Area Construction Plan, which includes the installation of approximately 45 miles of new pipeline and 6,100 service lines; new enhanced safety features for pressure regulation; and the deployment of an estimated 200 construction crews. I am concerned that given the severity of the damage and the scope of the rebuilding project, many of our residents will not have functioning heat in their homes as fall temperatures begin to drop. Time is of the essence, and we should be pursuing an all-hands-on-deck approach, utilizing all available resources and manpower to ensure the safe and timely restoration of gas service to impacted residents. The gas-line explosion has left one person dead, at least twenty-five injured, damaged or destroyed dozens of homes, and displaced thousands of residents in the Merrimack Valley. We cannot accept the possibility of further tragedy because we did not take full advantage of every resource available to fix this problem now. Since the events of September 13, USW Local 12003 and USW Local 12012 have repeatedly offered hundreds of their workers to assist Columbia Gas in the weeks ahead while they negotiate a new contract with National Grid. I appreciate that the underlying contract dispute between National Grid and the steelworkers is complex and may not be resolved immediately, even with the crisis in Merrimack Valley. That being said, this emergency is too important to keep so much manpower and technical expertise on the sidelines. I hope that you will be able to find a way to put the men and women of USW Local 12003 and USW Local 12012 to work in North Andover, Andover, and Lawrence as quickly as possible. Thank you for your attention to this important matter. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium.
09.14.2018	Moulton Leads Letter to President of Columbia Gas of Massachusetts Demanding Answers in Response to Gas Explosion September 14th, 2018 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA), led a letter with Congresswoman Niki Tsongas (D-MA), and Senators Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) and Edward J. Markey (D-MA) to the president of Columbia Gas of of Massachusetts demanding answers in the wake of the gas explosions that spread through the communities of Lawrence, North Andover, and Andover, Massachusetts on Thursday. In the letter, the members stated, “Thoughts and prayers are not enough. The residents of Lawrence, Andover, and North Andover want answers, and they deserve them. As local, state, and federal partners continue to gather information and assist those in need of food, water, shelter, and medical care, we hope that you will provide much-needed clarity as to how this incident happened and how Columbia Gas will prevent a similar event from occurring in the future.” September 14, 2018 Mr. Steve Bryant President Columbia Gas of Massachusetts P.O. Box 2025 Springfield, MA 01102 Dear Mr. Bryant: We write to express our deep concern about, and to seek further clarification regarding, the woefully inadequate response of Columbia Gas of Massachusetts (Columbia Gas) to the gas explosions that spread through the communities of Lawrence, North Andover, and Andover, Massachusetts on Thursday, September 13, 2018. As we continue to gather more information as to the cause of this incident, latest reports indicate that the gas-line explosion has left at least one person dead, and twenty-five injured; damaged or destroyed dozens of homes; and displaced thousands of residents in the Merrimack Valley. Massachusetts Governor Charlie Baker has now declared a state of emergency as these communities begin to recover. The explosions have been linked to natural gas distribution pipelines operated by your company, which is why we are troubled by the failure of you and your leadership team to effectively communicate with customers, impacted communities, local and state officials, as well as respond to inquiries from our offices over the past twenty-four hours. For this reason, we request that you respond to the following questions: Before the explosions on Thursday, Columbia Gas notified customers that it would be “upgrading natural gas lines in neighborhoods across the state.” Did you have adequate local staff available to handle this upgrade and were they adequately trained to complete this upgrade safely? To the best of your knowledge, did Columbia Gas crews properly follow all procedures necessary to safely complete and test the upgrade? Reports of first responders combating numerous fires and gas explosions in Andover, North Andover, and Lawrence began at 4pm on Thursday. Columbia Gas did not make any announcement or public statement about this incident until 9pm that evening. Can you please explain why it took four hours for your company to provide an update and response on your website? How soon after the first reports of gas explosions in the area did you begin reaching out to impacted stakeholders and customers? Representatives from Columbia Gas did not arrive in the impacted areas to assist their customers until late this morning. Media outlets report these representatives refused to answer questions and quickly departed.[1] How does Columbia Gas plan to address the questions and concerns raised by its customers? It is our understanding that Columbia Gas crews need to visit each of the 8,600 affected customers to shut off each gas meter and conduct a safety inspection. How long do you estimate this process will take and how will you ensure that your customers are informed in a timely manner when the safety inspection is complete? Does Columbia Gas have a plan to compensate the customers whose homes were damaged or destroyed, or to provide restitution or other support for families of those killed or hurt? How does Columbia Gas plan to compensate the municipalities and state agencies who incurred incredible costs responding to this incident? Did Columbia Gas have an emergency plan to address the eventuality of gas explosions like those that occurred this week? If so, were all procedures in this plan followed after the explosions began? Prior to September 13, 2018, did Columbia Gas have any warning or indication – from company staff, contractors, regulators, or any other entity – about potential gas explosion risks in the Merrimack Valley? If so, please describe these warnings and any actions taken in response. Was this an isolated event? Is there a possibility that similar gas explosions could occur in other areas in the coming day? What comprehensive safety measures is Columbia Gas taking to ensure that similar events do not happen in the future? Thoughts and prayers are not enough. The residents of Lawrence, Andover, and North Andover want answers, and they deserve them. As local, state, and federal partners continue to gather information and assist those in need of food, water, shelter, and medical care, we hope that you will provide much-needed clarity as to how this incident happened and how Columbia Gas will prevent a similar event from occurring in the future. We look forward to your response and thank you for your attention to this important matter. Sincerely, SETH MOULTON EDWARD J. MARKEY United States Representative United States Senator NIKI TSONGAS ELIZABETH WARREN United States Representative United States Senator
09.14.2018	Moulton Awards Magalie Yolanda Torres Rowe, of Lynn, with Third Annual Peter J. Gomes Service Award September 14th, 2018 Moulton: “Reverend Gomes was my greatest mentor in life, a man who dedicated his life to service and challenged others to do the same.” Salem, MA – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) announced that Magalie Yolanda Torres Rowe of Lynn, Executive Director and Founder of Latina Center Maria, was the recipient of the Third Annual Peter J. Gomes Service Award at a ceremony at the Parker River Wildlife Refuge. The Peter J. Gomes Service Award is given to an individual in the Sixth Congressional District of Massachusetts who best epitomizes the qualities of integrity, compassion, and commitment to community that were the foundation of the late Reverend Professor Peter J. Gomes’ teachings. “Reverend Gomes was my greatest mentor in life, a man who dedicated his life to service and challenged others to do the same,” said Moulton. “He once said, ‘Hope is the stuff that gets us through and beyond when the worst that can happen happens.’ As we reflect on the anniversary of September 11th and look at the world around us, we need look no further for hope than Magalie and the rest of the nominees. “In a time when so many are actively working to make it harder for our Spanish-speaking friends to fully participate in the social, economic, and cultural fabric of our nation, Magalie has stepped up — providing education and resources in Spanish that allow everyone to feel included in our community. Her dedication to service and her resourcefulness in fixing this problem are an inspiration to us all. I’m proud to give her this award in Reverend Gomes’ memory.” Following the award ceremony, Seth, Rowe, members of Seth’s staff, and volunteers participated in service activities at sites throughout the Parker River Wildlife Refuge on Plum Island. “Public service is important to me because I believe that each of us can make a better place to live, by loving, helping, and supporting each other,” said Rowe. “I remember one of my mentors, the well known Peruvian Theologian, Gustavo Gutierrez, OP, saying to the Catholic National Youth Summits, in Lima, Peru, and at Boston College School of Theology and Ministry; ‘Theology is the reflection of our praxis, so if you do not serve to your dear neighbors in your communities, you have nothing to reflect about.’ As an Associate Sister of St. Joseph, I try to serve always to my dear neighbor.” Other finalists for the award this year included: Kristine Babcock of Beverly, Veterans Service Coordinator at North Shore Community College, Timothy Doane of Marblehead, Firefighter, Karen Finocchio Lubeck of Marblehead, Volunteer for the Alzheimer’s Association, and Richard Reed of Bedford, Bedford Town Manager.
08.23.2018	Moulton Leads Letter to DHS Condemning ICE Detention Practices at Government Offices August 23rd, 2018 Washington, D.C. – Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA), led a letter with fellow members of the Massachusetts House delegation to Secretary of Homeland Security Kirstjen Nielsen and the Boston ICE Field Director Rebecca Adducci calling on DHS to cease detaining undocumented immigrants who appear at government offices for appointments. A full text of the letter can be found below. The Honorable Kirstjen M. Nielsen Secretary of Homeland Security Washington, D.C. 20528 The Honorable Rebecca Adducci Boston Field Office Director United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement 1000 District Avenue Burlington, MA, 01803 Dear Secretary Nielsen and Director Adducci, We write to express our deep concern about the recent reversal of a February 2018 directive halting the practice of detaining undocumented immigrants who appear at government offices for appointments. We are particularly concerned about the chilling effect the threat of detention will have on those who are working to resolve their immigration status with U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS). We urge you to reverse this decision and reinstate the February directive halting in-office arrests of those who do not pose a threat to public safety. We all have an interest in bringing these individuals out of the shadows and under the law, so we should not be deterring them from utilizing the very process the federal government has established for this purpose. Instead, Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) should, as previous Boston ICE Field Office Interim Director Thomas Brophy said “focus on public safety,” and not conduct arrests at government offices “unless there [is] a threat to national security or public safety.” The fear of detention, regardless of how frequently it actually takes place, discourages members of our community from resolving their immigration status. There is a clear and compelling interest in encouraging the timely and proper resolution of ongoing cases with USCIS, and ICE should not hinder that effort. Recognizing this interest does not, as you suggested in the recent comments to the Boston Globe, “exempt classes or categories of removable aliens from potential enforcement.’’ Nor does this policy need to be justified as a “prioritization of enforcement resources.’’ Instead, ICE can and should rely on its “sensitive location” policy, avoiding enforcement at government appointments as it does for other important cultural and civic institutions. We have seen firsthand that ICE enforcement actions at USCIS offices are “causing significant disruption to the normal operations of the sensitive location.” We urge you to consider the negative consequences of these enforcement actions and restore the February directive as soon as possible. Thank you for your prompt attention to this matter. Sincerely, Seth Moulton, James P. McGovern, Niki Tsongas, Richard E. Neal, Katherine Clark, Joseph P. Kennedy III, William R. Keating, Stephen F. Lynch, Mike Capuano
08.17.2018	Moulton, Tsongas, Markey Announce Essex National Heritage Bill August 17th, 2018 Moulton: “The Essex National Heritage Area is a treasured part of our nation’s history. It is vital that Congress continue to help fund the vital programs that preserve this area and its resources for generations to come” Salem, MA. -Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA), Congresswoman Niki Tsongas (D-MA), and Senator Ed Markey (D-MA) introduced companion legislation in both the House of Representatives and the United States Senate that would eliminate the funding authorization sunset provision and the total funding cap for the Essex National Heritage Area. When Congress created and authorized the Essex National Heritage Area, it placed a sunset date of September 30, 2021, after which no additional federal funding may be appropriated without an extension of authorization. “The Essex National Heritage Area is a treasured part of our nation’s history. It is vital that Congress continue to help fund the vital programs that preserve this area and its resources for generations to come,” said Moulton. “Since its creation, the Essex National Heritage Area has become an economic engine for our communities. While Congress has capped funding for the Heritage Area at $17 million over the past twenty years, the annual economic impact has exceeded $150 million, supporting thousands of jobs, and generating $14.3 million in tax revenue. I am proud to join Congresswoman Tsongas and Senator Markey in working to protect a part of our community that holds a special place in the historical and cultural fabric of our country.”” Without a reauthorization extension and a lift of the funding cap, the Essex Heritage programs and projects will be severely affected, if not crippled. “Our nation has made a commitment that our most significant historical, cultural, and natural sites should be preserved in perpetuity for future generations of Americans,” said Tsongas. “They help to tell the story of who we are as a people and a country, as well as spur sustainable economic growth and preserve our quality of life. Here in the Merrimack Valley, the Essex National Heritage Commission plays a critical role in continuing this tradition and building the public-private partnerships that are required to make this work possible. Our legislation ensures that the federal government continues to be a strong partner to the Commission and the residents of Essex County.” The lack funding will cause projects to halt and could have negative impacts for Essex Heritage’s ability to attract non-federal funding sources. “The Essex National Heritage Area is a treasure—valued not just by those in the Commonwealth, but also by visitors from around the country who come to experience the history and natural beauty of Essex County,” said Markey. “I’m introducing this legislation so we can ensure the Essex National Heritage Area will be there for families far into the future, from Appleton Farms to the Winter Island Light.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium.
08.17.2018	Moulton, Booker Introduce Bicameral Bill to Establish Grant Program for Right Whale Conservation August 17th, 2018 Moulton: “Let’s preserve some of earth’s greatest animals for future generations, rather than be a generation responsible for their irreversible demise.” Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA), Congressman Raúl Grijalva (D-AZ), Ranking Member of the House Natural Resources Committee, Congressman Jared Huffman (D-CA), Ranking Member on the Water, Power, and Oceans Subcommittee, and Congressman Bill Keating (D-MA), introduced a bill to protect the critically endangered North Atlantic right whale. U.S. Senators Cory Booker (D-NJ), Tom Carper (D-DE), and Bill Nelson (D-FL), along with Senators Bob Menendez (D-NJ), and Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY) introduced a companion measure in the Senate. Senator Booker is a member of the Senate’s Environment and Public Works Committee, Senator Carper is the top Democrat on the Environment and Public Works Committee, and Senator Nelson is the top Democrat on the Senate’s Commerce Committee, which oversees ocean policy. The SAVE Right Whales Act of 2018 establishes a new grant program to fund collaborative projects between states, nongovernmental organization, and members of the fishing and shipping industries to reduce the impacts of human activities on North Atlantic right whales. “The waters off Massachusetts are home to one of the planet’s most endangered species, the Right Whale,” said Moulton. “By providing competitive grants for Right Whale conservation projects, we can generate innovative solutions for saving an entire species. Let’s preserve some of earth’s greatest animals for future generations, rather than be a generation responsible for their irreversible demise.” “If we don’t take immediate action, the storied North Atlantic right whale could go extinct in my lifetime,” said Booker. “We have a responsibility to find and implement new solutions that will help us coexist with these whales up and down the East Coast. The best way to do this is to provide resources to the on-the-ground stakeholders and experts who are best positioned to find these solutions.” The following groups have endorsed the SAVE Right Whales Act: • Cape Cod Commercial Fishermen’s Alliance • Center for Biological Diversity • Conservation Law Foundation • Defenders of Wildlife • Humane Society of the United States • Humane Society Legislative Fund • International Fund for Animal Welfare • Natural Resources Defense Council • New England Aquarium • Oceana “There are fewer than 450 North Atlantic right whales remaining in the world, and their population is rapidly declining,” said Scott Kraus, Ph.D., Vice President and Chief Scientist of Marine Mammal Conservation at the Anderson Cabot Center for Ocean Life at the New England Aquarium. “The biggest threat to their survival is entanglement in fishing gear. 85% of right whales have been entangled once, and 60% have been entangled twice. This proposed bill is a great start toward finding solutions that protect both whales and the fishing industry. It calls for science-led conservation efforts with all stakeholders working cooperatively. Researchers, fishermen and government officials coming together is the only way that sustainable change will happen.” “Northern Atlantic right whales aren’t getting the protections they need, and World Oceans Day is the perfect time to give them those protections, said Grijalva The health and safety of some of our oceans’ most spectacular creatures should be a unanimous priority, both in Washington and around the country. Let’s pass this bill and get our oceans closer to the healthy, thriving natural places they should be.” “The North Atlantic right whale, one of the rarest marine mammals on the planet, is in peril of extinction,” said Huffman. “Innovative research and collaboration between all stakeholders, including Canada, is needed to address the rapidly declining North Atlantic right whale population and put it on the path to recovery. Our North Right Whale Conservation Act would fund long term solutions for right whale conservation, including ways to cut down on vessel collisions and entanglements, and reduce the impacts of human activities on this critically endangered population.” “We know right whales are in danger, and this legislation equips the people who study and understand right whales best with the tools they need to prevent the extinction of this great species,” said Keating. “Richard Delaney and the Center for Coastal Studies in Provincetown – who are at the forefront of the fight to save these beautiful creatures – are doing extraordinary work. Their efforts – as well as those of many others – should be commended. This legislation will further support their efforts.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium.
08.17.2018	Democratic National Security Task Force Statement on North Korea Summit August 17th, 2018 Washington, D.C. – The co-chairs of the Democratic Caucus’ National Security Task Force—Reps. Seth Moulton of Massachusetts, Stephanie Murphy of Florida, and Jimmy Panetta of California —issued the following statement after President Trump’s meeting with North Korea leader Kim Jong-Un: “The summit between President Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong-Un is an important first move toward averting a catastrophic war on the Korean Peninsula. Our task force has advocated for strong and steady diplomacy, combined with economic pressure and a credible military deterrent, as the best way forward, and that is why we are encouraged by this initial step. “However, the joint U.S.-North Korea statement falls far short on specifics. Without a timeline for complete denuclearization, specific inspection and verification requirements, and a halt to ballistic missile and nuclear development, we are concerned that this agreement is more show than substance. Those are elements that arms control experts, as well as the Trump administration itself, have explicitly articulated as ‘must-haves.’ “Finally, President Trump’s declaration that the U.S. will suspend joint military exercises with South Korean forces in exchange for no concessions on North Korea’s part harms military readiness. This action also undermines a key democratic ally – consistent with an all-too-familiar pattern with this President. “As co-chairs of the Democratic National Security Task Force and members of the House Armed Services Committee, we will continue to hold the Trump administration accountable and ensure the U.S. takes a strong, smart, and strategic approach to the threat posed by North Korea.” The Democratic Caucus National Security Task Force was established in June 2017 by the House Democratic Caucus to support the creation, execution, and public messaging of national securitypolicies that are strong, smart, and strategic.
08.17.2018	Moulton Wins Democracy Award for Exemplary Public Service August 17th, 2018 The Congressional Management Foundation Recognizes Moulton for Outstanding Achievement in Transparency and Accountability Washington, D.C. – Today, the Congressional Management Foundation announced that Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) is a winner in the inaugural Democracy Awards, the Congressional Management Foundation (CMF)’s distinctive honors program recognizing non-legislative achievement in operations and constituent service by congressional offices and Members of Congress. Moulton has been selected for hisoutstanding accomplishments in Transparency and Accountability. This category recognizes offices that provide clear and relevant information on their work and publicly acknowledge metrics for that performance. “As a Democracy Award winner, Rep. Moulton’s office is clearly one of the best in Congress,” said Bradford Fitch, President and CEO of the Congressional Management Foundation. “This designation demonstrates that Rep. Moulton has made a significant commitment to being the best public servant for his constituents in Massachusetts. Rep. Moulton and his staff are to be congratulated for not only being a model for his colleagues in Congress, but for helping to restore trust and faith that our democratic institutions can work.” Moulton’s office embeds transparency and accountability into office culture as core values: “We believe that openness is a hallmark of good government.” In his first term alone, Rep. Moulton held town hall meetings in each of the 39 towns in his district. The office shares detailed explanations of major votes on both their website and Medium account, and responds to constituent questions on Twitter and YouTube. Additionally, the office posts the average wait time a constituent can expect for a response to a policy question, as well as a dashboard of visually appealing updates and information relevant to constituents. Award categories include Constituent Service, Innovation, Transparency and Accountability, and the Life in Congress Award for Workplace Environment. CMF developed categories and criteria for the Democracy Awards over the last five years with input from Members of Congress, current and former congressional staff, and the Maxwell School for Public Policy and Citizenship at Syracuse University. Two Members of Congress (a Democrat and Republican) are selected for each award category. Congressional offices nominated themselves for the award and provided supporting documents to CMF. A review committee then conducted more than 70 interviews and evaluated additional supporting material to select 20 finalists. A committee comprised primarily of former Members of Congress and staff selected the winners in a blind review process where the name of the Member was redacted from the review material. All of the winners and finalists will be honored at an awards ceremony in Washington, D.C. on July 13. The Founding Partner for the Democracy Awards is the Bridge Alliance, which provided a generous grant to launch the program. Bridge Alliance is a diverse coalition of more than 80 organizations committed to revitalizing democratic practice in America. The Congressional Management Foundation (CMF) is a 501(c)(3) nonpartisan nonprofit whose mission is to build trust and effectiveness in Congress. Since 1977 CMF has worked internally with Member, committee, leadership, and institutional offices in the House and Senate to identify and disseminate best practices for management, workplace environment, communications, and constituent services. CMF also is the leading researcher and trainer on citizen engagement, educating thousands of individuals and facilitating better relationships with Congress. For more information, please visit www.CongressFoundation.org. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium.
08.17.2018	Eating Disorders Coalition Applauds Moulton for Leading a Bipartisan Letter to Investigate Eating Disorders Prevention and Treatment for Servicemembers and Their Families August 17th, 2018 Washington, D.C. – House of Representatives Armed Service Committee Members Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) and Congressman Walter Jones (R-NC) are leading a bipartisan letter with 30 other Members of Congress to the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) to request a comprehensive study of the state of prevention and treatment of eating disorders for military members and their families by December 14, 2018. The letter requests GAO to assess: Issues including screening for and prevention of eating disorders within the entire life cycle of service The number of servicemembers and families who have sought treatment The availability of eating disorder treatment for all levels of care across the nation. “Approximately 30 million Americans suffer from an eating disorder at some point in their lifetime, and studies have shown that our servicemembers and veterans are affected at even higher rates than the civilian population,” said Moulton. “It is estimated that up to 10% of male and female military personnel suffer from an eating disorder, and there is further reason to believe they are not receiving the care they need and deserve. Eating disorders can affect mental health and wellness in a way that could impact our military readiness. The GAO must conduct a comprehensive study of the Department of Defense’s TRICARE and Military Health System to evaluate the scope, prevention, and treatment of eating disorders affecting our military members and their families. Our servicemembers and veterans deserve the best health care in the world, and they should all have access to the healthcare they need, mental health included, especially those who have given up everything to serve our country.” “American servicemembers and their families affected by eating disorders have lived in the shadows for far too long,” said Chase Bannister, Board Vice President of the Eating Disorders Coalition. “We are encouraged by the leadership of Congressman Moulton and Congressman Jones in outflanking mental health stigma in our armed forces. For decades, our military and their families have faced a silent battle with eating disorders. This GAO study marks the end of that silence—and marks the beginning of hope.” Eating disorders have the highest mortality rate of any psychiatric illness, with suicide rates being 23% higher than that of the general population.3 Studies show that eating disorders affect our servicemembers and veterans at a higher rate than the civilian population. Research suggests there may be an even greater prevalence rate than current estimates due to lack of reporting, with 34% of female active duty servicemembers and 20% of children of servicemembers scoring at risk for an eating disorder.7 Additionally, a study of female veterans found significant relationships between increased risk of eating disorders and military members with history of Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) and sexual trauma. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium.
08.17.2018	Moulton Leads Letter to Trump and Introduces Legislation to Protect Fishing Industry from Trade Wars August 17th, 2018 Washington, D.C. – Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA), led a letter with Congressman Raul M. Grijalva (D-AZ), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Natural Resources, Congressman Jared Huffman (D-CA), Congressman William R. Keating (D-MA), and Congresswoman Chellie Pingree (D-ME) to President Trump and Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross demanding that fishermen and women receive compensation for the losses they are suffering as a result of the Administration’s trade wars. Yesterday, it was announced that the U.S. Department of Agriculture will give $12 billion in emergency aid to American farmers being negatively impacted by President Trump’s trade policies. The letter directs the Trump Administration to protect our nation’s commercial fishing industry from unilateral tariffs. The members have also introduced legislation that would would provide disaster relief for commercial fishery failures due to tariffs imposed by the United States or another country should the Administration ignore their calls to protect the industry. A full text of the letter can be found below. President Donald J. Trump The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, DC 20500 Secretary Wilbur Ross U.S. Department of Commerce 1401 Constitution Avenue NW Washington, DC 20230 Dear President Trump and Secretary Ross: Yesterday you announced that the U.S. Department of Agriculture will give $12 billion in emergency aid to American farmers being negatively impacted by your trade policies, farmworkers are not the only Americans that are losing out in this trade war with China. American fishermen and women are getting hit on both ends by your trade policies: first, by the tariffs imposed by your administration on steel and aluminum imports needed for boats, fishing hooks, and lobster and crab traps; and second, by the twenty-five percent retaliatory Chinese tariff on 170 American seafood products. American pollock, salmon, lobster, shrimp, and scallop fishermen, seafood processors, and shoreside businesses they support will all feel the negative effects of these trade policies, particularly given the fact that China is the world’s top seafood consumer and number one importer of American seafood. Currently, the United States exports $1.3 billion worth of seafood products to China. American seafood businesses and fishing groups across the country have spoken out in opposition to your trade policies. The President of the National Fisheries Institute, John Connelly, said, “The misguided strategy, that sees the U.S. and People’s Republic of China placing unwarranted tariffs on the other’s seafood products, will only hurt workers and consumers in their own countries.” Rather than setting off an endless trade war, the U.S. government should help American fishermen and women access new markets in China and globally, promote trade policies that ensure strong environmental protections, and enforce safe labor protections for all workers. Contrary to your approach, these things put our country at a competitive advantage with China. This trade war runs counterproductive to your administration’s priority to reduce our nation’s $14 billion seafood trade deficit. As a country that imports more than ninety percent of the seafood products it consumes, it is unclear how your administration plans to reduce the seafood deficit while simultaneously disadvantaging American fishermen’s ability to sell their seafood to the largest market. We respectfully request that you give the same consideration to the hardworking fishermen and women of America who are being hurt by your policies and direct the U.S. Department of Commerce to provide emergency assistance to working families of the water. While we believe that these emergency subsidies would not be necessary were it not for your trade policies, fishermen across the country are imploring us to take action to ensure that they can continue to harvest the sea and provide for their families. American seafood is some of the best in the world. Let’s not ruin an industry that has been a cornerstone of our economy since the inception of this great country. Thank you for your attention to this important matter. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium.
08.17.2018	Moulton Introducing Bill Banning 3-D Printed Guns August 17th, 2018 Moulton: “The availability of guns made by 3-D printers is a dangerous step in the wrong direction.” Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) and Democratic Policy and Communications Committee (DPCC) Co-Chair David N. Cicilline (D-RI) announced legislation that they will introduce during tomorrow’s pro forma session of the U.S. House to prohibit the 3-D printing of plastic firearms that cannot be detected by commonly used security checkpoints. This bill is in response to the Trump administration’s decision earlier this month to allow a company to post designs for 3-D printed guns online. “As someone who has had to use guns for his job, I know how critical it is that we assure well trained, law abiding citizens have access to guns,” said Moulton. “The availability of guns made by 3-D printers is a dangerous step in the wrong direction. America deserves leaders who have the courage to keep us safe, and that’s why Democrats and Republicans should come together to place responsible regulations on this new form of weaponry in our communities.” Moulton and Cicilline’s bill (a copy of which can be downloaded by clicking here) prohibits the manufacture or possession of 3-D printed guns that are made of plastic, rendering them virtually undetectable by modern security technology. The weapons lack serial numbers and are essentially untraceable by law enforcement. Many also believe that the proliferation of this technology will make it virtually impossible to prevent terrorists to build their own do-it-yourself firearms. “Gun violence is an epidemic in our country,” said Cicilline. “We should be doing everything we can to make it more difficult for criminals, children, and individuals with serious mental illness to possess a gun. Instead, the Trump administration’s decision will open the floodgates and allow anyone with access to the internet and a 3-D printer to possess a firearm. Even worse, these weapons are virtually undetectable by modern security devices used in airports, schools, and other would-be targets for mass shooters. This is a disaster waiting to happen. Congress needs to step in and prevent the distribution of this technology.” Since 2013, the State Department has blocked a company named Defense Distributed from publishing downloadable gun blueprints because the publication would compromise national security and could violate International Traffic in Arms Regulations. Earlier this month, however, the State Department suddenly reversed course and gave Defense Distributed a special exemption to publish gun blueprints online as early as this Wednesday, August 1. The State Department has yet to release the rationale behind its decision making process, except to say that it was a voluntary agreement between both parties. Downloadable guns can be used to circumvent national or state laws that help prevent possession by people that pose a danger to others and themselves. Through downloadable gun technology, any person can print their own firearm without having to go through a federally licensed dealer and without ever having gone through a criminal background check—including domestic abusers, terrorists and convicted felons. Gun blueprints also enable the printing of purely plastic guns that will not set off a metal detector and can be snuck into secure locations, such as government buildings and airplanes. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.govor connect with him onFacebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium.
08.08.2018	Moulton Announces Over 750k “Assistance to Firefighters Grants” Awarded in Sixth District August 8th, 2018 Moulton: “Our firefighters play an integral role in our communities” Salem, MA – Today, the Office of Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) announced FEMA Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG) that have been awarded to firefighters in the Sixth District. The primary goal of the Assistance to Firefighters Grants is to enhance the safety of the public and firefighters by providing direct financial assistance to eligible fire departments, nonaffiliated Emergency Medical Services (EMS) organizations, and State Fire Training Academies (SFTA) to raise awareness about fire hazards. The following grants have been awarded in the Sixth District: Georgetown, MA – $629,254; a regional grant award for Georgetown, Groveland, and Newbury, MA for firefighter breathing apparatus. Danvers MA – $32,115 for the purchase of two protective gear washers. Swampscott, MA – $121,319 for firefighter breathing apparatus. “Our firefighters play an integral role in our communities,” said Moulton. “This grant will help ensure the safety of our first responders. I am grateful to FEMA for recognizing the need to invest in local fire departments and keeping our first responders safe.” “I can’t think of a more vital piece of equipment vital to firefighter safety than our SCBA,” said Swampscott Fire Chief.Chief Kevin Breen. “Our last replacement of this important safety equipment was over 13 years ago. This grant makes this project possible all at one time instead of replacing a few at a time. This is a great program for Firefighter safety.” “The Town of Danvers is appreciative of the support Representative Moulton’s Office provided on this grant request,” said Town Manager Steve Bartha. “This seemingly small project will have a big impact locally for our firefighters.” “This grant will be used to purchase gear washers that remove contaminants that are considered to be a significant contributor to these occupational cancers,” said Danvers Fire Chief Bob Pyburn. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook,Twitter, Instagram, or Medium.
07.26.2018	Moulton, Harper Introduce Bipartisan Bill to Expand Access to Healthcare for People with Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities July 26th, 2018 Moulton: “Access to healthcare is a human right, and we have an obligation to make sure that those most in need are getting the care they deserve.” Washington, D.C. – Today, to commemorate the 28th anniversary of the passage of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA), and Congressman Gregg Harper (R-MS), introduced the Healthcare Extension and Accessibility for Developmentally Disabled and Underserved Population (HEADs Up) Act of 2018. The HEADs Up Act would designate people with Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities (I/DD) as a Medically Underserved Population (MUP) under the Health Services and Resources Administration (HRSA), opening up access to much needed primary care and specialist services, incentivizing new research, and authorizing more favorable reimbursement rates for providers who treat this population. “The best way to celebrate the 28th anniversary of the signing of the Americans with Disabilities Act and the 50th Anniversary of the Special Olympics is to take the next step towards ensuring that those living with intellectual and developmental disabilities can live full and happy lives,” said Moulton. “Every person with intellectual and developmental disabilities should be fully integrated into our communities. But right now, we’re failing to give them basic healthcare. This needs to stop. We have the opportunity to create a turning point in the way we care for some of the most medically underserved people in our country. Access to healthcare is a human right, and we have an obligation to make sure that those most in need are getting the care they deserve.” The “Medically Underserved” designation was created with the passage of the Health Centers Consolidation Act of 1996. Despite years of advocacy and ample evidence that people with I/DD qualify as a MUP, they still have not been designated as one. The designation as a special medically underserved population would open up over 25 government programs within the HRSA and other federal agencies for participation by the I/DD population. These programs include: Federal funding for health centers and public health infrastructure such as Federally Qualified Health Centers (FQHC), Eligibility to apply for federal funding to develop and operate Community Health Centers, Access to loan repayment and training programs in HRSA’s Workforce Development and Training Programs including the national Health Service Corps Scholarships, Incentives for physicians to treat this population in the form of higher CMS reimbursement rates for physician services delivered in Health Professional Shortage Areas, a designation closely related to MUP, Preference given to research at federal agencies, including the NIH, that studies medically underserved population. “Research shows that individuals with Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities (IDD) experience health disparities, as healthcare providers often do not receive the necessary training to provide proper care to the IDD community,” said Harper. “Increasing opportunities and improving the quality of life for IDD individuals has been a priority for me during my service in Congress. I am pleased to work with Representative Moulton on the HEADs Up Act of 2018 to continue this important conversation.” The following groups have endorsed the HEADs Up Act: American Network of Community Options and Resources (ANCOR) National Council on Disability ARC Autism Society The National Association of State Directors of Developmental Disabilities Services (NASDDDS) Special Olympics National Down Syndrome Congress MENTOR “Special Olympics strongly supports legislation, like the HEADs UP Act, that advances the rights, participation and integration of people with intellectual disabilities in communities across America,” said Dr. Timothy P. Shriver Ph.D., Chairman, Special Olympics International. “We thank Congressman Moulton and Congressman Gregg Harper for their championship of this bill. Special Olympics looks forward to continuing its work with Congress to end the stigma, stereotypes, isolation and discrimination that Americans with intellectual disabilities face around access to sport, health and education. The HEADs UP Act will go a long way towards ending well documented health disparities for people with Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities by appropriately designating those fellow Americans as a Medically Underserved Population as a result of so many lacking in the health care they desperately need and deserve.” “Increasing access to dental health services for people with intellectual and developmental disabilities is an incredibly important issue because data overwhelmingly shows the connection between dental health and overall health outcomes, but the issue has flown under the radar for far too long,” said Barbara Merrill, CEO of ANCOR. “We are so grateful that Representative Moulton has asserted himself as a champion for this issue because we know that designating people with I/DD as a medically underserved population will help us make great strides in connecting people with the dental care they need and deserve.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.govor connect with him onFacebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium.
07.12.2018	Democratic National Security Task Force Responds to President Trump’s European Trip July 12th, 2018 Washington, D.C. –The co-chairs of the Democratic Caucus’ National Security Task Force—Reps. Seth Moulton of Massachusetts, Stephanie Murphy of Florida, and Jimmy Panetta of California—issued the following statement in response to the President’s trip to Europe for the 2018 NATO summit and a series of meetings with foreign heads of state: “During President Trump’s trip to Europe, he should focus his attention on strengthening our relationships with our most important European partners and holding Russia accountable for its destabilizing actions. Instead, the President continues his pattern of alienating our allies and embracing our adversaries. “We support tough and direct diplomacy, but President Trump’s decision to grant President Putin a one-on-one summit – without NATO allies or senior foreign policy advisors present—reflects a failure to acknowledge the full extent of Russia’s reprehensible actions worldwide. “By isolating our allies, President Trump empowers Putin, who is determined to weaken our democracy and our security. President Trump should not cozy up to Russia and its dictatorial leader; he must stand up for the American people and our closest allies.” The Democratic Caucus National Security Task Force was established in June 2017 by the House Democratic Caucus to support the creation, execution, and public messaging of national security policies that are strong, smart, and strategic.
07.12.2018	Moulton & All Armed Services Committee Democrats Call on Republicans to Conduct Oversight of Trump Plan to House Migrants on Military Bases July 12th, 2018 Washington, D.C. – Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA), Ranking Member of the the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, House Armed Services Ranking Member Adam Smith (D-WA), Rep. Robert A. Brady (D-PA), Rep. Susan A. Davis (D-CA), Rep. James R. Langevin (D-RI), Rep. Rick Larsen (D-WA), Rep. Jim Cooper (D-TN), Rep. Madeleine Z. Bordallo (D-GU), Rep. Joe Courtney (D-CT), Rep. Niki Tsongas (D-MA), Rep. John Garamendi (D-CA), Rep. Jackie Speier (D-CA), Rep. Marc A. Veasey (D-TX), Rep. Tulsi Gabbard (D-HI), Rep. Beto O’Rourke (D-TX), Rep. Donald Norcross (D-NJ), Rep. Ruben Gallego (D-AZ), Rep. Colleen Hanabusa (D-HI), Rep. Carol Shea-Porter (D-NH), Rep. Jacky Rosen (D-NV), Rep. A. Donald McEachin (D-VA), Rep. Salud O. Carbajal (D-CA), Rep. Anthony G. Brown (D-MD), Rep. Stephanie N. Murphy (D-FL), Rep. Ro Khanna (D-CA), Rep. Tom O’Halleran (D-AZ), Rep. Thomas R. Suozzi (D-NY), and Rep. Jimmy Panetta (D-CA) sent a letter to the Chairman of the Armed Services Committee calling on Republicans to task the Oversight & Investigations Subcommittee with conducting oversight of President Trump’s plans to house migrants on military bases. The letter can be found at this link, and its contents read as follows: The Honorable Mac Thornberry Chairman House Armed Services Committee U.S. House of Representatives Washington, DC 20515 Dear Chairman Thornberry: We write to express concern over the Administration’s handling of unaccompanied minors, migrant families, and those seeking asylum in the United States. While the Committee on Armed Services does not maintain jurisdiction over immigration matters, the Department of Defense has been tasked with providing temporary housing for up to 32,000 unaccompanied minors and migrant families at military installations. In addition, the Department has entered into a Memorandum of Understanding with the Department of Justice to provide military lawyers to assist civilian federal prosecutors in immigration-related proceedings. The Committee on Armed Services has valid equities in the Administration’s tasking of the Department of Defense in its handling of these issues, given the Department’s broad support to several outside agencies including the Department of Justice, the Department of Health and Human Services, and the Department of Homeland Security. Therefore, we request that the Committee conduct focused oversight, to include open hearings, to examine the support that the Department of Defense has provided or will provide to other Federal agencies on border and immigration-related matters. Normally, an issue of this magnitude should be handled at the full committee level, but given the intensity of conference and the need for immediate oversight, we feel the House Armed Services Committee’s Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigation (O&I) is uniquely postured to conduct a robust investigation into these matters. An earnest subcommittee effort would afford Members the opportunity to hear from the Department of Defense and to derive answers to the following critical questions: 1) What forms of assistance to other Federal agencies related to unaccompanied minors, migrant families, and those seeking asylum in the United States have been requested of or tasked to the Department of Defense? 2) How has the Department of Defense, including the military departments, assessed these requests or tasks and how have determinations been made for accommodating or fulfilling such requests or tasks? 3) What funding accounts and legal and regulatory authorities is the Department of Defense using to provide support until such support is reimbursed under sections 1535 and 1536 of Title 31, United States Code? The use of military infrastructure, real property, and personnel for functions outside of core Department of Defense mission areas, warrants Congressional oversight from this Committee. With these pressing concerns in mind, we request that that you promptly initiate an O&I Subcommittee investigation, and we look forward to your response. Thank you for your kind attention. Sincerely, Adam Smith Ranking Member, House Armed Services Committee Seth Moulton Ranking Member, House Armed Services Oversight & Investigations Subcommittee Robert A. Brady Susan A. Davis James R. Langevin Rick Larsen Jim Cooper Madeleine Z. Bordallo Joe Courtney Niki Tsongas John Garamendi Jackie Speier Marc A. Veasey Tulsi Gabbard Beto O’Rourke Donald Norcross Ruben Gallego Colleen Hanabusa Carol Shea-Porter Jacky Rosen Donald McEachin Salud O. Carbajal Anthony G. Brown Stephanie N. Murphy Ro Khanna Tom O’Halleran Thomas R. Suozzi Jimmy Panetta cc: The Honorable Vicky Hartzler, Chairwoman, Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium.
07.09.2018	Moulton Statement on Kavanaugh Nomination July 9th, 2018 “Americans deserve justices and leaders who will earn our trust and move this country forward–not pull us into the past” Washington, D.C. – Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) issued the following statement after President Trump nominated Judge Brett Kavanaugh to fill the Supreme Court seat left vacant by Justice Anthony Kennedy: “Our democracy depends on three independent branches of government checking and balancing one another. President Trump’s Supreme Court nomination jeopardizes this core function and injects the same partisanship into the courts that has crippled Congress and eroded confidence in the executive. Americans deserve justices and leaders who will earn our trust and move this country forward–not pull us into the past. Brett Kavanaugh does not meet that standard.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium.
06.04.2018	Moulton Announces 35k Grant for Essex National Heritage Area June 4th, 2018 Moulton: “The Essex National Heritage Area is a treasured part of our nation’s history” Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) announced that the National Park Service and Maritime Administration have awarded the Essex National Heritage Area Commission a $35,014.00 maritime heritage grant. In partnership with the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Maritime Administration (MARAD), the National Park Service awarded grants for projects that “teach about and preserve sites and objects related to our nation’s maritime history.” “The Essex National Heritage Area is a treasured part of our nation’s history,” said Moulton. “Heritage areas like ours are also drivers of economic development for our communities. Congress must now work to further protect a part of our community that holds a special place in the historical and cultural fabric of our country.” Earlier this year, Moulton joined Congresswoman Niki Tsongas (D-MA), and Senator Ed Markey (D-MA) to introduce companion legislation in both the House of Representatives and the United States Senate that would eliminate the funding authorization sunset provision and the total funding cap for the Essex National Heritage Area. When Congress created and authorized the Essex National Heritage Area, it placed a sunset date of September 30, 2021, after which no additional federal funding may be appropriated without an extension of authorization. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium.
06.04.2018	Moulton, Congressional Antitrust Caucus Lead Letter to FTC Requesting Information on How Corporate Consolidation Affects American Workers, Consumers, and Small Businesses June 4th, 2018 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA), Founding Member of the Congressional Antitrust Caucus, led a letter with the co-chairs and founding members of the Caucus to the Federal Trade Commission requesting a review of how corporate consolidation affects American workers, consumers, and small businesses. In the letter, they stated, “Open and competitive markets are critical to the interests of consumers, workers, and businesses large and small. But there is mounting evidence of increasing concentration and market power throughout the U.S. economy, and the impact is being felt by consumers, workers, and entrepreneurs. Some of the symptoms include sharp increases in return on investments for a small group of large firms, persistently high corporate profits, and a rise in monopsony power for the largest firms over their workers and suppliers and overall concentration in labor markets. In competitive markets, firms are incentivized to spend profits on capital equipment, research and development, or on wages to attract and retain the best labor force. But in the place of healthy economic activity, we are currently witnessing record-breaking distributions of profits to shareholders, as spending on investment and wages remains flat to down.” A full text of the letter can be found attached and below. The Honorable Joseph Simons Chairman Federal Trade Commission 600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20580 Dear Chairman Simons, We write to express support for your proposed merger retrospective program and request more information about the timeline and criteria to be considered for its implementation. Open and competitive markets are critical to the interests of consumers, workers, and businesses large and small. But there is mounting evidence of increasing concentration and market power throughout the U.S. economy, and the impact is being felt by consumers, workers, and entrepreneurs. Some of the symptoms include sharp increases in return on investments for a small group of large firms, persistently high corporate profits, and a rise in monopsony power for the largest firms over their workers and suppliers and overall concentration in labor markets. In competitive markets, firms are incentivized to spend profits on capital equipment, research and development, or on wages to attract and retain the best labor force. But in the place of healthy economic activity, we are currently witnessing record-breaking distributions of profits to shareholders, as spending on investment and wages remains flat to down. It also appears to be more challenging than ever for new businesses to form and to remain the engine driving American job growth. New firms as a share of total firms have continued to decline over the last decade, suggesting that the barriers to entry for new businesses may have increased. Young firms now also represent a smaller share of total employment across industries, meaning workers have fewer small business employers to choose from. This naturally contributes to large employers having more power over their suppliers and workers. As the largest employers represent a more significant share of job opportunities, there are more opportunities for abuse. Judicial and legislative actions have already been taken to address monopsony power in cases ranging from collusion in the hiring of registered nurses to predatory no-poach and non-compete agreements in employment contracts. This alarming trend raises serious concerns about the effectiveness of merger enforcement over the past several decades. Merger activity in North America now exceeds 2007 levels with over 10,000 transactions surpassing $1.8 trillion of value in 2017. The size of these transactions has also continued to grow, with the median value increasing from around $15 million in 2007 to over $45 million in 2018. Despite these trends, the number of transactions deemed to pose competitive concerns warranting an in-depth investigation has been minimal, with just twenty to thirty “second requests” issued by the Commission in every year from fiscal years 2010 to 2016. As some experts have noted, merger enforcement has declined and potentially narrowed in recent years. For example, a study by Professor John Kwoka notes that the rate of enforcement actions for mergers in markets with more than four significant competitors declined precipitously from between twenty-five and fifty percent in 1996 to zero in 2008. The Commission’s own studies, meanwhile have shown a thirty percent error rate in merger remedies that require a divestiture of assets. While this rate appears too high as is, it also fails to specifically account for additional anticompetitive impacts on labor markets. Moreover, despite historic levels of merger activity, the Commission’s funding levels have remained flat. As a result, enforcement action appears to have not kept pace with transaction filings. According to Michael Kades of the Washington Center for Equitable Growth, “antitrust enforcers lack the resources to protect consumers and promote competition during the current merger wave, which likely has contributed to increases in concentration and monopoly power.” At the same time, the Commission has been forced to expend valuable resources challenging large, anticompetitive transactions and conduct that are resource intensive. For example, in recent years it has expended significant resources blocking anticompetitive hospital mergers that would have resulted in “higher healthcare costs and lower quality service in local communities.” Within the context of these concerns, we believe that there is room for significant improvement. As you have noted, “Addressing these concerns is critical, as they lie at the heart of the agency’s competition mission. The FTC needs to devote substantial resources to determine whether its merger enforcement has been too lax, and if that’s the case, the agency needs to determine the reason for such failure and fix it.” We strongly agree. Accordingly, we ask that you provide information regarding the Commission’s merger retrospective program, and respectfully request that you respond to the following questions by June 30, 2018: Merger Enforcement Evaluation Criteria In addition to effects on the price and quality of products or services and competition in relevant markets, can you comment on how you will consider the following factors in evaluating past merger enforcement: spending on capital expenditures, investment in research and development, reduction in planned or actual employment and facility capacity, average salary and benefits—of the top 1 percent, the median, and the lowest 10 percent of individuals employed— before and after the merger? Do you plan to consider the impact on an employer’s monopsony power or the bargaining position of workers before and after the merger as part of your evaluation? If so, how do you plan to measure and evaluate it? If not, can you explain what limitations prevent you from accounting for this? In the Senate confirmation hearing, Mr. Chopra indicated that it may be valuable to review barriers to entry in highly concentrated markets.[16] Do you plan to account for changes in barriers to entry for new firms in markets before and after a merger? Will the retrospective address the process for determining the appropriate markets through which to assess concentration? In the case of a merger between firms not currently competing in the same product markets, should the FTC consider factors such as access to and share of suppliers and distribution channels in the evaluation of concentration? Retrospective Focus and Prioritization How will you prioritize evaluation of markets in the merger retrospective? Will the study include all mergers over a selected time period or prioritize a subset of industries? If a subset is prioritized, how will this be determined? Given the rapid pace of transactions and recent concerns about increasing market concentration in the technology sector, will you specifically analyze acquisitions by large technology and e-commerce platform companies, or concerns related to the potential loss of competition in this market? In your Senate questionnaire, you mentioned that the FTC should also extend the retrospective process to non-merger matters. How will you implement this plan? How will it account for non-enforcement in areas involving single firm conduct? How do you plan to address concerns raised by Commissioner Rohit Chopra related to addressing corporate recidivism through the robust enforcement of consent decrees?[17] Resources and Timeline In your Senate questionnaire, you noted that “the FTC needs to devote substantial resources to determine whether its merger enforcement has been too lax, and if that’s the case, the agency needs to determine the reason for such a failure and fix it.”[18] Does the FTC have sufficient financial and human resources to complete a thorough cross-sector merger retrospective within a reasonable timeline? If not, what resources would be required? What do you propose as a timeline for completion of this merger retrospective? Can you commit to share a public update on a defined timeline so appropriate policy actions can be taken to address any failures in a reasonable timeframe? Thank you for your attention to this important matter. We look forward to working with you and your fellow commissioners to ensure that our markets remain competitive for the benefit of all Americans. Sincerely, Seth Moulton, David N. Cicilline, Keith Ellison, Ro Khanna, Mark Pocan, Rick Nolan, Pramila Jayapal, Jamie Raskin To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium.
05.25.2018	Moulton Leads on Key Provisions Included in Passage of NDAA May 25th, 2018 Moulton: “Even in these incredibly divided times, Congress can come together when it has the right leadership.” The House of Representatives has passed H.R. 5515, the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). This bill authorizes funding for the Department of Defense and other related agencies for Fiscal Year 2019. Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA), ranking member of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, released the following statement in support of the NDAA’s passage: “This year’s overwhelmingly bipartisan defense bill is proof positive that, even in these incredibly divided times, Congress can come together when it has the right leadership. Chairman Mac Thornberry, from a deep red district in Texas, and Ranking Member Adam Smith, from a blue district in Washington, helped bring us together. The bill isn’t perfect, and still puts too much money towards old, expensive programs for aircraft and ships and not enough towards the latest technology and our troops on the ground.. But it’s a bipartisan step in the right direction. I will continue to be an advocate for our troops, and work to ensure the United States has a strong, smart, and strategic approach to our national defense.” This bill contains important funding provisions that are beneficial to Massachusetts and the Sixth District, including: $40 million in funding for Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) – Lincoln Labs modernization and facilities upgrades – MIT Lincoln Labs, located in Massachusetts’ 6th district, is a nerve-center of critical research and development in microchips and semiconductors as well as cybersecurity, space technology, and advanced communications important for our national security. This funding will enable the continued modernization of decades-old facilities and support MIT’s efforts to remain on the cutting edge. In addition, Moulton led on key amendments contained in the bill that are critical to our national security and defense including: Independent Assessment of the Defense Health Agency (DHA) and military mental healthcare – Congressman Moulton spearheaded an effort requiring the Department of Defense provide Congress and the American people with a strategy detailing how it manages the mental health care needs of military personnel across all service branches. As the Department of Defense transitions healthcare across services to the Defense Health Agency (DHA), this provision ensures servicemembers are provided the best care possible – especially as veterans confront higher rates of post-traumatic stress and continued difficulty accessing care. White House National Security Council Cyber Coordination Strategy – Congressman Moulton led an effort via NDAA that requires a White House National Security Council (NSC) official coordinate a government-wide response to foreign cyber attacks against the U.S. The President must report to Congress on this strategy and detail a summary of actions taken to enhance U.S. national security against cyber information operations and provide an assessment of the effects of such information operations on U.S. foreign policy. This is in response to Russian hacking of the 2016 elections and ongoing efforts by Russia and other foreign governments to attack our cyber infrastructure and manipulate our policymaking process.Despite the bill including this provision, days afterwards, the White House announced it would be eliminating the Cyber Coordinator position from the NSC. Congressman Moulton led an effort to block this move which was rejected by Republicans, ignoring the need to maintain robust national cyber-defense. Countering Foreign Propaganda Act of 2018 (CFPA) – Congressman Moulton introduced vital bipartisan legislation with Republican Elise Stefanik of New York now incorporated in NDAA requiring greater transparency of foreign government-owned media outlets. Russia attacked our democracy in 2016 and is planning to do so again in our 2018 elections. Russia and China use government media to disseminate disinformation to sway public opinion and impact our political processes. This provision requires such outlets disclose their foreign government ownership and ties to Congress and the American people to ensure there is greater visibility of the role of foreign governments in our media landscape. We can’t wait until after the fact to let the American people know they’ve been watching a foreign government’s propaganda machine – especially when it seeks to undermine our democratic elections. Prescription Database Monitoring Program – SHIELDS Act – Congressman Moulton led a bipartisan effort with Republican Mike Turner of Ohio that requires the Department of Defense coordinate and share their prescription databases with states to better monitor opioids and their use. This provision is vital given the devastating impact opioid addiction has had on our veterans. This legislation included in the NDAA will help our servicemembers get the care they deserve by increasing information sharing between the Defense Department and state-managed prescription databases. Trump’s Military Parade – Congressman Moulton spoke in strong support of an effort to require any parade honoring our troops occur on Veterans Day and prohibit the use of equipment that would negatively impact our military readiness. Moulton emphasized the fact that our defense budget is better spent on better equipment for our troops, military family benefits, veteran suicide prevention, or investments in the research and development of advanced weapons to counter our adversaries. Unfortunately, this amendment was rejected by Republicans. Rural Broadband Connectivity – Congressman Moulton led an effort with Republican Trent Kelly of Mississippi which was included in the bill that directs the Small Business Administration (SBA) to assist small businesses in obtaining broadband access and appoints an SBA official to coordinate such efforts. It also requires regular reports to Congress on this work and the SBA to collect data on small business broadband accessibility and usage to better facilitate connectivity. This provision will help small businesses innovate, become more efficient, and save money. Unmanned Naval Ship Research & Development – Congressman Moulton pioneered a provision in the the Seapower portion of the bill that strengthens the development of unmanned naval technologies. Russia and China are quickly developing advanced unmanned naval craft and without concerted, strategic investments, the U.S. will fall behind. This provision ensures our Navy’s focus is on the future of Naval technology, not just the present by better resourcing unmanned research and development efforts. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
05.22.2018	Democratic National Security Task Force Statement on Fallout from Trump’s Withdrawal from Iran Nuclear Deal May 22nd, 2018 Washington, D.C. – The co-chairs of the Democratic Caucus’ National Security Task Force—Reps. Seth Moulton of Massachusetts, Stephanie Murphy of Florida, and Jimmy Panetta of California —issued the following statement in response to the fallout we are witnessing due to President Trump’s decision to withdraw the United States from the Iran Nuclear Deal. “As we and many national security experts had warned, President Trump’s decision to withdraw from the Iran deal is already yielding negative results. Our European allies have lost trust in the United States as a negotiating partner after we broke our word to the international community, including to our closest friends. “President Trump’s move has also harmed Americans economically. After President Trump’s announcement, the price of oil reached its highest point since 2014, and energy experts warn gas prices will continue to rise into the summer. Finally, European leaders have said they are already taking steps to strengthen Europe’s financial ties with Iran – precisely the opposite of what the White House hoped would happen after pulling out of the deal. “This is just one of many examples where President Trump has walked away from our role as a global leader and made both Americans and our allies less safe.” The Democratic Caucus National Security Task Force was established in June 2017 by the House Democratic Caucus to support the creation, execution, and public messaging of national security policies that are strong, smart, and strategic. ###
05.08.2018	Statement on Trump’s Decision to Withdraw from the Iran Nuclear Deal May 8th, 2018 Moulton Statement on Trump’s Decision to Withdraw from the Iran Nuclear Deal Washington, D.C. – Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) today released the following statement in response to President Donald Trump’s decision to withdraw from the Iran Nuclear Deal: “President Trump’s decision to withdraw from the Iran Deal turns our back on our allies and hands Iranian hardliners a gift that makes the world more dangerous—and America less secure. Iran will now feel free to re-launch their nuclear program, and other nations will be encouraged to pursue their own nuclear development since America clearly cannot be trusted to uphold the agreements that we make. “The President has done this with no plan to prevent Iran from developing a nuclear weapon, and we stand to lose significant access to intelligence to track Iran’s progress. President Trump is also misleading the country by suggesting that an America-alone approach can stop Iran. Sanctions only brought Iran to the negotiating table when we imposed them with our allies. “As Americans, we have always prided ourselves on having the values and integrity to lead the world. President Trump is making it clear that, under his tenure, this is no longer the case.” BACKGROUND The IAEA and U.S. military leaders have repeatedly testified that the deal has and continues to prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon, and subjects Iran to unprecedented monitoring and inspections. In testimony before the U.S. Senate Armed Services Committee, the commander of U.S. forces in the Middle East, Gen. Joseph Votel said, “it is in our interest to stay in the Iran nuclear deal.” Additionally, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Gen. Joseph Dunford, said in a House Armed Services Committee hearing that Iran continues to abide by the terms of the deal. Rep. Moulton is a member of the House Armed Service Committee and Co-Chair of the Democratic Caucus’ National Security Task Force. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
05.04.2018	Moulton, Warren, Markey, and Lynch Announce Over $9 Million in Federal Ferry Grants May 4th, 2018 Grants Will Support Passenger Ferry Systems in Salem and Hingham Washington, D.C. – Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA), United States Senators Elizabeth Warren and Edward J. Markey (D-MA), and Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA) announced today that the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) has awarded over $9 million in federal grants to support passenger ferry systems in Salem and Hingham, Massachusetts. The grants, which were awarded through the DOT’s Passenger Ferry Grant Program, include $3,400,000 for the City of Salem to acquire a new ferry vessel, and $6,050,000 to build a new ferry dock in Hingham. “Access to Salem’s historic harbor and waterfront is one of the many things that makes our community special,” said Moulton. “I thank the DOT for recognizing that additional ferry service is crucial to the continued economic growth of Salem, and the overall quality of life of our local commuters. I look forward to continuing to partner with Senator Warren, Senator Markey, and Mayor Driscoll to enhance economic opportunity in Salem.” “I couldn’t be more pleased that our grant application to DOT has been successful,” said Salem Mayor Kim Driscoll. “Expanded and additional ferry service has been one of our priority goals for helping to mitigate traffic and add more commuter options for Salem residents and visitors alike. As we revitalize and reconnect with our historic harbor and waterfront, ferry service is a critical part of the economic growth and strength of our community. For centuries Salem has looked to the sea and seen opportunity. The awarding of these funds will only further that connection, to the benefit of all who live in or visit our city. I am grateful to all the City staff that worked on this grant application and to our federal partners, including Senator Warren, Senator Markey, and Congressman Moulton, whose tireless efforts have made these funds available to us.” More information about the DOT’s Passenger Ferry Grant Program is available here. “This federal funding to modernize our ferry systems is terrific news for Hingham, Salem, and for the entire coastal region,” said Warren. “I’m committed to ensuring that the federal government is a strong partner for our cities and towns in Massachusetts, and that means supporting key infrastructure projects like these, which will improve families’ transit options and help support our local economy.” “The home of the nation’s first National Historic Maritime Site deserves a ferry of world-class distinction,” said Markey. “This injection of federal funds will help ensure those who live, work, and visit Salem have another reliable, environmentally-friendly transportation alternative. I thank Mayor Driscoll for her commitment to expand fun, efficient, clean transportation options for our constituents.” “Thousands of South Shore commuters rely on the Hingham/Hull Ferry each week as a reliable, enjoyable and environmentally-friendly way to get into Boston,” said Lynch. “I am very pleased that the U.S. Department of Transportation has granted $6.5 million to make vital improvements to the dock at the Hingham Ferry Terminal. This will allow the Terminal to operate more smoothly and will triple the life span of the dock. And most importantly, these updates will ensure that the ferry is accessible to all riders by bringing the dock into full compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act and the Massachusetts Architectural Access Board guidelines. My thanks to my colleagues Senators Elizabeth Warren and Ed Markey for their support in helping us to get this done.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
05.01.2018	Moulton Announces Peabody Essex Museum Awarded $200,000 NEH Grant May 1st, 2018 Moulton: “The Peabody Essex Museum is a cultural staple of our community” Salem, MA – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA), announced that the National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH) has awarded a $200,000 grant to the Peabody Essex Museum for implementation of the exhibit, “Empresses of China’s Forbidden City.” NEH grants are “highly competitive and involve a rigorous peer-review process to ensure that the projects represent the highest level of humanities quality and public engagement.” “I am proud to announce that the Peabody Essex Museum will be receiving a $200,000 grant from the National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH),” said Moulton. “The Peabody Essex Museum is a cultural staple of our community. With this grant, the Peabody Essex Museum can continue to educate, enrich, and bring us together through art. I congratulate them on winning this competitive grant and look forward to their continued commitment to making better the cultural fabric of the Sixth District.” “We would like to thank the NEH for this generous grant, which will support the important international exhibition ‘Empresses of China’s Forbidden City,’ featuring nearly 200 spectacular works of art from the Palace Museum, Beijing, including rare objects never before publicly displayed,” said PEM’s Rose-Marie and Eijk van Otterloo Director and CEO Dan Monroe. “The museum is proud to be able to produce high-quality exhibitions and programming for our community.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
04.30.2018	Moulton Leads Letter Demanding Protection of Right Whales April 30th, 2018 Washington, D.C. – Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) led a letter to Treasury Secretary Steven T. Mnuchin and Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross urging them to require Canada to apply for and receive a comparability certificate for their commercial fisheries implicated in the incidental killing of North Atlantic right whales. In the letter, Moulton and the members stated, “We believe immediately requiring Canada to secure a comparability finding or face a ban on the importation of fish and fish products from Canadian fisheries implicated in the killing of North Atlantic right whales is an important step to protect this iconic species. Unless we take drastic action now, the North Atlantic right whale is on a path to extinction within twenty years.” A full text of the letter can be found here and below. The Honorable Wilbur Ross Secretary U.S. Department of Commerce 1401 Constitution Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20320 The Honorable Steven T. Mnuchin Secretary U.S. Department of the Treasury 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington DC, 20220 Dear Secretary Ross and Secretary Mnuchin: We write to urge the U.S. Department of Commerce and the U.S. Department of the Treasury to take immediate action pursuant to Section 101(a)(2) of the Marine Mammal Protection Act (MMPA) of 1972 (16 U.S. Code §1371 (a)(2)) to require Canada to apply for and receive a comparability certificate for their commercial fisheries implicated in the incidental killing of North Atlantic right whales. If Canada cannot secure a comparability finding for those fisheries then the MMPA requires the National Marine Fisheries Service, in cooperation with the Department of Treasury and Department of Commerce, to impose a ban on the importation of commercial fish or products from fish harvested in those fisheries. There are an estimated 450 North Atlantic right whales remaining in our world’s oceans. These whales are long-lived and highly-migratory, with females birthing a single calf once every three to five years. The species is particularly vulnerable to commercial fishing activity and maritime trade. It is estimated that eighty percent of documented North Atlantic right whale deaths have been caused by humans. The combination of physical trauma caused by collisions with vessels and entanglements with commercial fishing gear has been catastrophic for the remaining population of whales. Alarmingly, researchers have found no signs of newborn North Atlantic Right Whales this year, indicating that these interactions with ships and fishing gear are likely affecting the reproductive rates of the only 100 breeding females that remain. Last August, the National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) declared an Unusual Mortality Event (UME) for the North Atlantic right whale. In 2017 alone, seventeen whales were found dead along the Atlantic coast. These mortalities, twelve of which were recorded in the Gulf of St. Lawrence, represent roughly three percent of the total population of the species.[3] According to a December 2017 incident report released by the Canadian Wildlife Cooperative and Fisheries and Oceans Canada (DFO), gear entanglements and blunt force trauma were implicated as the leading cause of death, coinciding with high levels of commercial fisheries activity and maritime traffic in the Gulf of St. Lawrence. Under the MMPA, United States fishermen have faced numerous changes and restrictions to avoid entanglements with whales including significant modifications to their fishing gear, adhering to seasonal, and emergency closures of fishing areas. Additionally, large vessels entering and departing ports along the northeast coast of the United States are required to adhere to speed restrictions to avoid traumatic collisions with these animals. Through the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration’s (NOAA) establishment of the Atlantic Large Whale Take Reduction Team, the United States has and must continue to pursue meaningful conservation measures to reduce North Atlantic right whale mortalities. In August 2016, NOAA published the MMPA import provisions rule, which establishes the criteria for evaluating a nation’s regulatory program for reducing marine mammal bycatch in foreign fisheries. In order for countries to import fish into the United States, they must demonstrate that they are meeting the equivalent of our standards. On March 16, 2018 NMFS issued the final List of Foreign Fisheries, identifying exempted fisheries (those with no record of interacting with ocean mammals) and those which a comparability finding will be required. The data supplied by Canada indicated that there are thousands of licenses issued in fisheries that interact with the North Atlantic right whale, including 6,200 lobster, over 1,860 snow crab, and 165 whelk licenses. Other fisheries, such as the Newfoundland herring gillnet fishery and the northern cod fishery, could also be impacted. On March 28, 2018, Canadian Fisheries Minister, Dominic LeBlanc, along with Minister of Transport, Marc Garneau, announced a series of new measures aimed at minimizing gear entanglements and avoiding collisions. These measures include reducing the number of traps and starting and ending the snow crab fishery earlier in one affected fishing area—Area 12— implementing temporary and fixed fishery management closures when right whales are present, and requiring seasonal ship speed reductions. Unfortunately, while these measures are beneficial, they do not go far enough to either fully protect the critically endangered whales or be comparable to the restrictions and regulations U.S. fishermen face. For example, the new fishery restrictions only apply to the snow crab fishery, even though other fisheries, like lobster and whelk, have been shown to interact with right whales. Additionally, there are approximately ten snow crab fishing zones where whales are known to have interacted with gear, yet these new restrictions are only applicable to one. Lastly, none of the new measures implement any significant gear modifications, like requiring the use of weak links, which NOAA requires U.S. fishermen to use. Pursuant to the August 2016 final rule, we understand that by January 1, 2022, a harvesting nation must apply for and receive a comparability finding for each of its export and exempt fisheries on the list to continue to export fish and fish products from those fisheries to the United States. However, given that the need to protect North Atlantic right whales is so dire, we believe that NOAA should immediately require Canada to apply for and receive a comparability certificate for their commercial fisheries implicated in the incidental killing of North Atlantic right whales. If Canada cannot secure a comparability finding for those fisheries then a ban on the importation of commercial fish or products from fish harvested in those fisheries should be imposed. We believe immediately requiring Canada to secure a comparability finding or face a ban on the importation of fish and fish products from Canadian fisheries implicated in the killing of North Atlantic right whales is an important step to protect this iconic species. Unless we take drastic action now, the North Atlantic right whale is on a path to extinction within twenty years. Thank you for your attention to this important matter. Sincerely, Seth Moulton Member of Congress Don Young Member of Congress Raul M. Grijalva Member of Congress Jared Huffman Member of Congress Donald S. Beyer, Jr. Member of Congress William R. Keating Member of Congress Niki Tsongas Member of Congress Michael E. Capuano Member of Congress To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
04.25.2018	Moulton to Mnuchin: Certify Sixth District Opportunity Zones Without Delay April 25th, 2018 Washington, D.C. – Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) sent a letter to Treasury Secretary Steven T. Mnuchin requesting he certify without delay the eligible communities in Massachusetts’ Sixth Congressional District that have been submitted for the Opportunity Zone Designation Program. These communities include Gloucester, Beverly, Peabody, Salem, Saugus, and Lynn. Moulton is an original cosponsor of the legislation that authorized the Opportunity Zone initiative. A full text of the letter can be found below. April 24, 2018 The Honorable Steven T. Mnuchin Secretary U.S. Department of the Treasury 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington DC, 20220 Dear Secretary Mnuchin, I write to request that you certify without delay the eligible communities in Massachusetts’ Sixth Congressional District that Massachusetts Governor Charlie Baker has submitted for the Opportunity Zone Designation Program. I understand these communities include Gloucester, Beverly, Peabody, Salem, Saugus, and Lynn. As an original cosponsor of the legislation that authorized this initiative, I believe these communities will benefit from the increased investment in local infrastructure and economic growth that comes with public-private partnerships. Founded in 1623, the City of Gloucester is the oldest seaport in the United States and is home to the largest groundfish and lobster port in Massachusetts. In addition to its rich maritime heritage, Gloucester is considered a regional economic hub and tourism destination. Once the center of the New England fishing industry, Gloucester has struggled to maintain a thriving, working waterfront. With the decline of the fishing industry, Gloucester has had to rebrand itself and search for new economic opportunities for its downtown. If awarded, the Opportunity Zone designation and incentive program would help the city attract additional and much-needed investment to the waterfront. Additionally, the City of Gloucester has stated that a zone designation would result in job growth and will assist in marketing downtown Gloucester to national and international companies looking to expand and relocate. The City of Beverly is a seaside manufacturing hub and cultural district that provides small town charm with a city identity. Beverly’s strong partnerships between private companies, government and community help attract a wide range of economic development and cultural opportunities. While Beverly has a lot to offer, there are areas in Beverly’s downtown that are underdeveloped due to various construction and finance obstacles. The eligible opportunity tracts include much of the commercial and industrial areas in downtown Beverly, including the Bass River industrial sector and the Cummings Center business park. While the City of Beverly has made positive improvements to this area, the increasing cost of local construction and issues obtaining financing have made it difficult to attract equity investors. A Opportunity Zone designation and increased tax incentives for investors would help alleviate some of these current challenges. The designation would act as a catalyst to unlock more equity investment, especially in the Cummings Center business park, enhancing business and job opportunities for many North Shore residents. Once referred to as “The Leather City,” Peabody has struggled to maintain its 20th century economic vitality into the beginning of the 21st. The majority of Peabody’s 91 leather companies have closed or relocated, leaving the city with several resistant to redevelopment and eroding the employment base on which the city was built. This post-industrial decline has especially impacted the city’s downtown district, leaving it chronically underdeveloped. However, while Peabody is facing many economic hurdles, the city is also poised for an economic resurgence: an Opportunity Zone designation would unlock potential investment opportunities for underutilized and vacant buildings downtown, reviving the city’s vibrant center. This designation would not only assist the downtown, but also crucially the segment of the nominated census tract running along the city’s border with Salem. Development and revitalization in this area would improve the city’s employment opportunities, housing stock, and strengthen the bonds between the Peabody and Salem economies, resulting in mutually beneficial economic development for the region. Salem has historically been one of America’s most important seaports; however, beyond its historical significance, the city is still an economic and educational hub for the North Shore. While Salem is a local economic powerhouse, the city is still grappling with economic development obstacles within its eligible census tracts. These obstacles include increased cost of local construction due to difficult topography, and significant environmental issues due to prior industrial use, among others. Designation as an Opportunity Zone would help offset some of this cost of construction and cleanup, and also spur investment and job growth in the city’s industrial district–one of the region’s busiest retail corridors. Additionally, Salem lacks workforce housing near many of its major employment centers including, Salem State University and North Shore Medical Center. Increased investment from the Opportunity Zone program would help Salem to build affordable housing for current and prospective employees, continuing to drive the city and region’s economy forward by broadening its local tax and employment base. Once the “shoe capital of the world,” the City of Lynn has weathered a decline similar to many post-industrial cities this century. However, Lynn is now well-poised for a meaningful renaissance— fueled by its strong, diverse residents and its unique proximity to the ocean and the City of Boston. A gateway city of 92,000 residents, Lynn has not recovered its 20th-century economic vitality: in the past hundred years, shoe manufacturing moved overseas, the advent of the suburban shopping mall decimated the downtown shopping corridor, and General Electric, the city’s largest employer, reduced its workforce from 30,000 to 3,000. Despite these challenges, Lynn’s unique strengths, including its proximity to Boston, accessibility of public transportation, 305 acres of undeveloped waterfront property, and a thriving downtown restaurant and entrepreneurial scene, are evident, and the city is on the rise. Governor Charlie Baker, then-Senator Tom McGee, former Mayor Judith Flanagan Kennedy and I have worked to convene a federal, state, and municipal team to strategize on Lynn’s revitalization: Lynn Economic Advancement and Development (LEAD). While the LEAD team has made significant progress in improving the quality of life in Lynn by leveraging Mass Development, creating partnerships with cultural organizations and executing a recent “Developers Tour,” there are still many waterfront, transportation, and downtown projects that have been slow to develop due to financial and environmental obstacles. The momentum toward revitalization created by this group’s efforts, enhanced by an Opportunity Zone designation, is what Lynn needs to activate the investment of residents and developers alike. If approved, an Opportunity Zone designation would act as a catalyst to help move these projects forward and unlock Lynn’s potential to provide employment, transportation and residential opportunities in the Greater Boston area. The Town of Saugus was first settled in 1629 and is the home of Saugus Iron works, a National Historic Site and first integrated ironworks in North America, Saugus has a long and rich manufacturing history. During the Industrial Revolution, many new industries moved their manufacturing to Saugus, including shoes, woolen goods, and tobacco. Following the Civil War, the Cliftondale section of Saugus became a major producer of tobacco as many of the southern tobacco plantations had been destroyed. Its thriving tobacco industry earned the town the moniker, “The Winston-Salem of the North.” Like many smaller post-industrial cities and towns, Saugus has struggled to revitalize its once thriving economy. Saugus stated that, with a zone designation, they would develop a community partnership organization to focus on the town’s ongoing revitalization that would include business owners, residents, property owners, and public sector representatives. I am excited to see that the Opportunity Zone Program has become a reality for communities in Massachusetts and throughout the country. I trust that the applications of Gloucester, Beverly, Peabody, Salem, Saugus and Lynn will receive the serious consideration that they deserve. If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact my Senior Policy Advisor, Eric Kanter, at Eric.Kanter@mail.house.gov. Sincerely, SETH MOULTON Member of Congress To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
04.12.2018	Moulton, Smith, Gallego, and O’Rourke Lead Letter to Sec. Mattis on Use of DOD Funds for Border Wall April 12th, 2018 Washington, D.C. – Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA), House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith (D-WA), Congressman Ruben Gallego (D-AZ), and Congressman Beto O’Rourke (D-TX) led a letter with seven other Democratic members of the House Armed Services Committee to Secretary of Defense James Mattis regarding the use of Department of Defense funds for construction of a “border wall.” Earlier today, Secretary Mattis testified before the House Armed Services Committee, where Moulton questioned him on U.S. military strategy. In the letter, the members stated, “We write to express our strong opposition to recent reporting indicating the White House will seek to pay for its proposed ‘border wall’ using U.S. Department of Defense funding. Not only is such a proposal unsound and unnecessary on its merits, such budgetary maneuvering risks depleting critical military accounts dedicated to rebuilding the readiness and capabilities of our armed forces.” A full text of the letter can be found here and below. Hon. Secretary James Mattis Secretary of Defense 1000 Defense Pentagon Washington, DC 20301-1000 April 11, 2018 Dear Secretary Mattis, We write to express our strong opposition to recent reporting indicating the White House will seek to pay for its proposed “border wall” using U.S. Department of Defense funding. Not only is such a proposal unsound and unnecessary on its merits, such budgetary maneuvering risks depleting critical military accounts dedicated to rebuilding the readiness and capabilities of our armed forces. Moreover, we are strongly concerned that politicized attempts to shift funding from the Defense Department jeopardize much needed accounts you and your service secretaries have repeatedly testified to the importance of preserving. Maintaining steady funding for weapons replenishment, modernization of our ground forces, needed training and readiness, and other technologies to ensure our warfighters are able to defeat our adversaries is critical to our national defense. Constructing an unnecessary border wall is not the intent or purpose of the funding we in Congress authorize and appropriate to the Department. We support border security measures that keep our country safe, however, building a border wall would not measurably strengthen our homeland security and would be excessively costly, harmful, and a waste of taxpayer resources. Moreover, using critical Department of Defense funding to do so undermines our national security and the budgetary stability we have sought to provide our servicemembers. Finally, we would like to point out that the FY2018 National Defense Authorization Act does not authorize the construction of a border wall. We respectfully request a statement of your next steps to be taken with this border wall request. Sincerely, Seth Moulton Beto O’Rourke Ruben Gallego Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress Jackie Speier Anthony G. Brown Salud Carbajal Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress John Garamendi Niki Tsongas Joe Courtney Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress Jacky Rosen Member of Congress To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook,Twitter, Instagram, Medium. ###
04.11.2018	Moulton Statement on Chemical Attack in Syria April 11th, 2018 WASHINGTON – Following reports that the Assad regime had yet again targeted civilians with chemical weapons in Syria, Rep. Seth Moulton (MA-6) released the following statement: “The Assad regime’s chemical attack on civilians is a heinous war crime. We must work with our international partners to further isolate the regime and its sole remaining backers – Iran and Russia – and hold them accountable for their actions. America is at our best when we lead based on our principles. We have seen a lot of mixed messages from the White House, but no strategy and no leadership. We have read a lot of tweets, but see no plans to act with compassion, and save refugees while we still can. It is past time for the President to present a clear strategy for our role going forward, and for Congress to debate a new authorization for military force in Syria. Failing to do so is not fair to our service members risking their lives every day or to the American public.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium ###
04.09.2018	Moulton Welcomes New Chief of Staff April 9th, 2018 Massachusetts native Alexis Prieur L’Heureux joins the staff today Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) announced that Massachusetts native Alexis Prieur L’Heureux will be his new Chief of Staff. Alexis joins the staff today and will be based in Moulton’s Washington D.C. office. Alexis assumes this position from interim Chief of Staff Carrie Rankin, who will be transitioning into a senior advisory role. “Alexis brings a vast level of experience to this role and I am excited to welcome her to the team,” said Moulton. “With her leadership, we can continue to advance a forward-looking legislative agenda, deliver results for the Sixth District, and bring real change to Washington. I am excited that she will be joining my team and look forward to working with her as I continue to serve my constituents and our country.” Alexis served in President Obama’s Administration as a national security policy advisor at the Department of Defense (2009-2012, 2014-2017) and as the Deputy Executive Secretary at the U.S. Department of Treasury (2013-2014). “I am excited to be joining such an innovative and ambitious office,” said L’Heureux. “It is clear that Seth’s commitment to service, passion for our country, and unique approach to getting things done in D.C. drive the culture of his team, and I am honored to be assuming a leadership role within the office. I look forward to continuing the tradition this team has of being transparent, mission-oriented, and service-driven.” In addition to her leadership in the Department of Defense, Alexis has also worked to protect the vote for numerous campaigns at both the state and national levels, starting with then-Senator Obama’s 2008 primary campaign in New Hampshire. In 2017, Alexis co-founded two organizations focused on voting rights: Access Democracy and Voter Protection Partners. Access Democracy, a non-profit that recently became a project of The Leadership Conference Education Fund, works to increase access to voting by improving how elections are run at the local level. Voter Protection Partners works with Democratic committees, state parties, and campaigns to build programs that help ensure eligible voters are able to cast their ballots. Alexis is a naturalized citizen and a graduate of Queen’s University in Canada and Northeastern University School of Law. Alexis resides in Washington, D.C., with her husband and their young son. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium ###
04.03.2018	Newburyport Harbor Receives $200,000 in Omnibus Spending Bill April 3rd, 2018 Moulton: “We are fortunate to have coastal communities significant to the cultural and economic heritage of our entire country” Salem, MA – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) released the following statement in response to Newburyport Harbor receiving $200,000 through the Army Corps of Engineers in the recently passed omnibus spending bill: “I am happy to report that the 2018 omnibus package included $200,000 for design and other preparation for the future dredging of the Newburyport Harbor to keep it safe. From fishing out of the harbor with a friend growing up to touring the area with the Coast Guard as a congressman, I have seen how vital safe passage is to everyone from recreational boaters to commercial fishermen. We are fortunate to have coastal communities significant to the cultural and economic heritage of our entire country, and helping their economies grow for future generations is something my team and I are proud to do.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
03.20.2018	Moulton, Stefanik Introduce Countering Foreign Propaganda Act of 2018 March 20th, 2018 Moulton: “This isn’t a partisan issue; it’s about our national security” Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) and Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-NY), members of the House Armed Services Committee, introduced the Countering Foreign Propaganda Act of 2018. This legislation demands greater transparency from foreign government owned media outlets in the U.S. by requiring outlets to disclose their ownership and government ties to the FCC and American people. In doing so, we can ensure there is greater visibility of the role of foreign governments in our media landscape. “Russia attacked our democracy in 2016, France and Germany’s elections in 2017, and is already spreading disinformation ahead of our 2018 elections,” said Moulton. “Both Russia and China have dramatically expanded efforts within our country to sway public opinion, spread propaganda, and advance their own political goals. A key part of this strategy is the use of government-controlled media to sow falsehoods and spread propaganda. That’s why I am proud to introduce the Countering Foreign Propaganda Act of 2018 with Rep. Elise Stefanik, which requires media outlets to disclose their ties to foreign governments to the FCC and to the American people. This isn’t a partisan issue; it’s about our national security. We can’t be blindsided by another outlet like Russia Today spreading propaganda that undermines our democracy.” “This legislation is a critical initiative as we work to counter information warfare from adversarial nations, including Russia,” said Stefanik. “We must ensure transparency and public disclosure from foreign media outlets so that the American public knows where this information is coming from. As a Member of the House Intelligence Committee and the Chair of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities, I will continue to work to safeguard our nation from foreign threats and meddling in our political system.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
03.20.2018	Moulton, Tsongas, Markey Announce Essex National Heritage Bill March 20th, 2018 Moulton: “The Essex National Heritage Area is a treasured part of our nation’s history. It is vital that Congress continue to help fund the vital programs that preserve this area and its resources for generations to come” Salem, MA. -Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA), Congresswoman Niki Tsongas (D-MA), and Senator Ed Markey (D-MA) introduced companion legislation in both the House of Representatives and the United States Senate that would eliminate the funding authorization sunset provision and the total funding cap for the Essex National Heritage Area. When Congress created and authorized the Essex National Heritage Area, it placed a sunset date of September 30, 2021, after which no additional federal funding may be appropriated without an extension of authorization. “The Essex National Heritage Area is a treasured part of our nation’s history. It is vital that Congress continue to help fund the vital programs that preserve this area and its resources for generations to come,” said Moulton. “Since its creation, the Essex National Heritage Area has become an economic engine for our communities. While Congress has capped funding for the Heritage Area at $17 million over the past twenty years, the annual economic impact has exceeded $150 million, supporting thousands of jobs, and generating $14.3 million in tax revenue. I am proud to join Congresswoman Tsongas and Senator Markey in working to protect a part of our community that holds a special place in the historical and cultural fabric of our country.”” Without a reauthorization extension and a lift of the funding cap, the Essex Heritage programs and projects will be severely affected, if not crippled. “Our nation has made a commitment that our most significant historical, cultural, and natural sites should be preserved in perpetuity for future generations of Americans,” said Tsongas. “They help to tell the story of who we are as a people and a country, as well as spur sustainable economic growth and preserve our quality of life. Here in the Merrimack Valley, the Essex National Heritage Commission plays a critical role in continuing this tradition and building the public-private partnerships that are required to make this work possible. Our legislation ensures that the federal government continues to be a strong partner to the Commission and the residents of Essex County.” The lack funding will cause projects to halt and could have negative impacts for Essex Heritage’s ability to attract non-federal funding sources. “The Essex National Heritage Area is a treasure—valued not just by those in the Commonwealth, but also by visitors from around the country who come to experience the history and natural beauty of Essex County,” said Markey. “I’m introducing this legislation so we can ensure the Essex National Heritage Area will be there for families far into the future, from Appleton Farms to the Winter Island Light.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
03.17.2018	Moulton, Meadows, Loebsack Introduce TL;DR Act March 17th, 2018 Washington, D.C. – Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA), Congressman Mark Meadows (R-NC), and Congressman Dave Loebsack (D-IA) announced introduction of TL;DR – the “Too Long, Didn’t Read” Act. The TL;DR Act would direct the Office of Management and Budget to require agencies to place important action items at the beginning of communication with constituents, when they are allowed or required to complete an action item. The clearly marked section at the top will include the following pieces of information (to the extent practicable): The action item; If a response is required or optional; The deadline, if applicable; How to complete the action item; and The agency’s contact information “People seeking assistance from the government should not be tied up in bureaucracy and bogged down with confusing paperwork,” said Moulton. “It’s past time we simplify the process of dealing with federal agencies and eliminate barriers to things like VA benefits and Medicare. Government bureaucracy should not be standing in the way of people receiving their benefits. This bipartisan effort will make it easier to contact federal agencies and follow through with any action items required. And it will make government more efficient.” “Any time we can take a step toward making our government more transparent and accountable to the voters, it’s a good day,” said Meadows. “It’d be difficult to find a better place to start than by making agency guidelines easier to understand and fully digest, so that Americans can get a head start on understanding the rules and regulations for federal benefits they are working with. I’m proud to join my colleague Seth Moulton on this, and I thank him for his efforts.” The introduction of TL;DR comes at the close of Sunshine Week, “the annual nationwide celebration of access to public information.” “Government has a responsibility to provide clear communication to the American people. It should be a top priority,” said Loebsack. “For years folks have been bogged down by bureaucratic gibberish and it is past time to more clearly communicate with the public. I am pleased to work in a bipartisan fashion to help simplify the way Americans interact with their government. By providing clear and concise information at the top of any correspondence to the public, the federal government is increasing transparency and acting to best serve the American people.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
02.28.2018	Moulton, Markey Lead Massachusetts Delegation with Governor Baker in Calling for an End to Offshore Drilling Proposal February 28th, 2018 Washington, D.C. – Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA), Senator Ed Markey (D-MA), Governor Charlie Baker (R-MA), and the entire Massachusetts Congressional Delegation led a letter letter to Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke asking him to reverse the Trump Administration’s offshore drilling proposal. This letter comes after Moulton and Markey led a letter from the Massachusetts Congressional Delegation to Baker urging him to join other governors across the country in formally opposing the proposed program. Earlier this week, Environment Massachusetts, the statewide environmental advocacy organization, presented its Environmental Champion Award to Moulton citing the Moulton / Markey letter in doing so. A full text of the letter can be found attached and below. Dear Secretary Zinke— We are writing with respect to the recently released Draft Proposed Program for the 2019-2024 National Outer Continental Shelf Oil and Gas Leasing (“Draft Proposed Program”) by the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management (BOEM). The Draft Proposed Program includes 98 percent of the Outer Continental Shelf (OCS), making these areas available for oil and gas leasing during the 2019–2024 period. Since 1982, the North Atlantic OCS area has not been eligible for exploration, leasing, and development of oil and gas resources. We write to convey unequivocally that we do not support the inclusion of the North Atlantic or areas offshore the Commonwealth of Massachusetts in the 2019-2024 National Outer Continental Shelf Oil and Gas Leasing Program. The resources and uses of the OCS are critically important to the health and well-being of Massachusetts. These federal waters off our coast contain rich natural resources and important marine ecosystems that support local, state, regional and national economies and are intrinsic to the social fabric and heritage of our coastal communities. In 2015, the Massachusetts marine economy generated a total statewide economic impact of $17.336 billion in output, led by our strong tourism and recreation, marine trades, transportation, and fishing and seafood sectors. The commercial and recreational fisheries in federal waters are significantly important resources, and the Port of New Bedford continues to be the number one port in the U.S. for landings value, while Massachusetts ranks third in the nation for fisheries landings values and fifth for volume. The ocean waters of the OCS are a vital habitat for endangered whales, sea turtles, marine birds, and other wildlife that rely on these areas for key portions of their life stages and seasonal movements. Marine commerce and transportation transit the OCS, moving exports and imports to and from Massachusetts ports, providing important tourism and recreational benefits, and supporting critical national marine security and defense interests. The OCS off Massachusetts also has significant potential for sustainable renewable energy, and we have worked for nearly a decade with BOEM and the Department of Interior on the responsible development of offshore wind that will soon become a key part of our region’s energy future. The Commonwealth is currently reviewing bids for wind energy projects in the first phase of developing 1,600 MW of renewable wind energy projects and after the upcoming auction by BOEM this year, there will be more than 900,000 acres of commercial lease area available for potential development. In June 2017, during the formal Request for Information and Comments process to initiate the development of the Draft Proposed Program, the Baker-Polito administration wrote to you, specifically requesting that the North Atlantic planning area or areas affecting Massachusetts be excluded from the new 2019-2024 National Outer Continental Shelf Oil and Gas Leasing Program. The Draft Proposed Program acknowledged this request but did not specify what action would be taken. The entire Massachusetts Senate and House Delegations have also written to you to express opposition to leasing off our state. This letter should serve to provide you and BOEM with the input required by OCS Lands Act Section 18(a)(2)(F), that the Commonwealth’s priority goals and policies are to protect and enhance our commercial and recreational fishing industries, foster critical marine resources and ecosystems, reduce greenhouse gas emissions and advance the effort to responsibly develop offshore wind resources. For more than three decades, the exploration or leasing for oil and gas in the North Atlantic has not been justified, and we believe this holds true today more than ever. We again request formal exclusion from the new 2019-2024 National Outer Continental Shelf Oil and Gas Leasing Program. Thank you for the opportunity to comment on the Draft Proposed Program. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
02.26.2018	Moulton Receives Environmental Champion Award February 26th, 2018 “Moulton has consistently stood on the side of our environment, our health, and our future” Salem, MA – Today, Environment Massachusetts, the statewide environmental advocacy organization, presented its Environmental Champion award to Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) in recognition of his 100 percent environmental voting record in 2017. “I am proud to be receiving the Environmental Champion Award from Environment Massachusetts,” said Moulton. “Environmental protection and economic growth go hand in hand. Our district’s history and economic livelihood is inextricably connected to our oceans and natural resources. I’m committed to doing everything I can to create forward-looking policies and advocate for smart, effective regulations that will ensure a healthier environment for future generations.” Moulton’s 100 percent score on Environment Massachusetts’ scorecard is based on 32 roll call votes in 2017, on legislation related to clean air, clean water, renewable energy, public lands, climate change, and funding for environmental agencies. “We are pleased to recognize Congressman Seth Moulton for his environmental leadership,” said Ben Hellerstein, State Director for Environment Massachusetts. “Congressman Moulton has consistently stood on the side of our environment, our health, and our future. At a time when our core environmental protections are under attack, we’re glad to have such a staunch champion in Congressman Moulton.” In addition to his pro-environment voting record, Moulton recently co-led a letter with Senator Ed Markey opposing the Trump administration’s proposed offshore drilling plan. All 11 members of Massachusetts’ congressional delegation signed on to Moulton and Markey’s letter, which urged Governor Charlie Baker to stand up against drilling off of Massachusetts’ coast. “With special interests lining up to dismantle protections for our air, our water, and the places we love, we need to stand up and fight back,” said Hellerstein. “We’re grateful for Congressman Moulton’s partnership as we defend our environment and work toward a cleaner, healthier future.” Environment Massachusetts is the statewide, citizen-funded advocacy group working for a cleaner, greener, healthier future. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
02.23.2018	Moulton Named Finalist for First-Ever Democracy Awards February 23rd, 2018 “Moulton has made a significant commitment to being the best public servant for his constituents” Washington, D.C. – The Congressional Management Foundation (CMF) today announced that Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) is a finalist for the first-ever Democracy Awards, CMF’s new award recognizing non-legislative achievement and performance in congressional offices. Moulton has been selected for outstanding accomplishments for the category of Transparency and Accountability. The Transparency and Accountability category recognizes offices that provide clear and relevant information on their work and publicly acknowledge metrics for that performance. “As a finalist in Transparency and Accountability for a Democracy Award, Rep. Moulton’s office is clearly one of the best in Congress,” said Bradford Fitch, President and CEO of the Congressional Management Foundation.“This designation demonstrates that Rep. Moulton has made a significant commitment to being the best public servant for his constituents in Massachusetts. Rep. Moulton and his staff are to be congratulated for not only being a model for colleagues in Congress, but for helping to restore trust and faith that our democratic institutions can work.” Twenty House and Senate offices were honored as finalists in four categories: Constituent Service, Innovation, Transparency and Accountability, and “Life in Congress”-Workplace Environment. House and Senate personal offices nominated themselves using an online questionnaire for the four office categories. CMF followed up with offices to gather documentation and assess the office’s adherence to the established criteria. CMF staff selected the finalists based on the information provided by nominees. A committee comprised primarily of former Members of Congress and former congressional staffers will select the two winners (one Democrat and one Republican) for each of the categories. Winners will be announced in mid-May. An awards ceremony to honor finalists and winners will be held on July 12, 2018. The Founding Partner for the Democracy Awards is the Bridge Alliance, which provided a generous grant to launch the program. Bridge Alliance is a diverse coalition of more than 80 organizations committed to revitalizing democratic practice in America. The Congressional Management Foundation (CMF) is a 501(c)(3) nonpartisan nonprofit whose mission is to build trust and effectiveness in Congress. Since 1977 CMF has worked internally with Member, committee, leadership, and institutional offices in the House and Senate to identify and disseminate best practices for management, workplace environment, communications, and constituent services. CMF also is the leading researcher and trainer on citizen engagement, educating thousands of individuals and facilitating better relationships with Congress. For more information, please visit www.CongressFoundation.org. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
02.14.2018	Moulton’s Legislation Sanctioning Hamas Passes House February 14th, 2018 Moulton: “Protecting innocent human lives is not a partisan issue; it’s one of basic human decency” Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) and Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) passed their their bipartisan bill, H.R. 3542, the Hamas Human Shields Prevention Act. The bill, which passed with unanimous consent, sanctions Hamas for violating human rights standards by using civilians as human shields. “When Hamas uses innocent citizens as human shields, it shows how weak and immoral terrorists can be,” said Moulton. “We cannot claim to be moral leaders in the world if we sit on our hands and let disgusting practice continue. It’s past time the House take up this bill, and I hope to see it pass the Senate and arrive on the President’s desk as soon as possible. Protecting innocent human lives is not a partisan issue; it’s one of basic human decency.” Last June, the United Nations Relief and Works Agency (UNRWA) discovered Hamas tunnels under two of its schools in Gaza, demonstrating how Hamas knowingly integrates terrorist operations in civilian resources. “The world must face the threat of Hamas terrorists, as they continue to perpetrate atrocities against civilians and use them as human shields,” said Wilson. “I am grateful that the U.S. House of Representatives took a stand today against this murderous terrorist group, and am hopeful that the Senate will pass H.R. 3542 quickly. I believe this legislation will help ensure the lives of innocent Palestinian civilians are spared by proactively imposing strong sanctions against Hamas.” The full text of the bill can be found here. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
02.14.2018	Moulton Named 2018 CompTIA Tech Champion February 14th, 2018 Washington, D.C. – CompTIA, the world’s leading technology association, named Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) a 2018 CompTIA Tech Champion. The CompTIA Tech Champion award is given out each year recognizing individuals who exemplify leadership in the technology sector, and who have championed policies that advance the country’s IT industry. Moulton was recognized for his work in leading the CHANCE in Tech Act, a bipartisan bill that seeks to address the growing skills gap in the technology sector through expanding and investing in tech apprenticeship programs. “It is long past due for government to act on a problem that businesses both small and large have been facing over the past few years,” said Moulton. “While companies should be taking the lead on training workers to fill the skills gap, the government can incentivize them–especially by lowering barriers to get apprenticeships off the ground. Together, we can tackle the challenges of a changing economy, provide opportunity for everyone to participate in it, and set our sights on what the workforce of the future can do. And then we can build that workforce to meet those challenges.” The Computing Technology Industry Association (CompTIA) is “the world’s leading technology association, with approximately 2,000 member companies, 3,000 academic and training partners, over 100,000 registered users and more than two million IT certifications issued. CompTIA’s unparalleled range of programs foster workforce skills development and generate critical knowledge and insight – building the foundation for technology’s future.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
02.09.2018	Budgeting month to month and governing crisis to crisis is no way to run anything. February 9th, 2018 Moulton: “Budgeting month to month and governing crisis to crisis is no way to run anything” Washington, D.C. – Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) released the following statement after the House passed the budget caps bill: “Budgeting month to month and governing crisis to crisis is no way to run anything, let alone the United States of America. Republican leadership, if you can even call it that right now, is an embarrassment. America is better than this. “I voted against this deal because it shortchanged all the things we should be coming together, as both Democrats and Republicans, to accomplish for the people we represent. Rather than play politics with funding our government, pitting one group against another, we should make strong investments in our future. “A good deal supports our economy. Just look at the reaction of the stock market over the past week as Republicans careened towards another shutdown. Of course most Americans don’t have stocks, but rely on all the other investments we make: in education, health care, and in our local communities, especially after natural disasters. These things must be adequately funded. “A good deal supports our troops. As general after general has told us, short-term deals hobble our Pentagon planners and endanger our military. Only with a predictable budget, that is adequately funded, can we make the investments in our troops and technology to meet the latest threats. “A good deal invests in our future. At times like this, most talk focuses on government spending. But equally important is the other half of the equation because we ultimately can’t pay our troops, pay our Medicare bills, and invest in our future without the funds to do so. This is why the Republican tax cut for the rich is so dangerous for us all: it triples the deficit. And we can’t afford that. This deal makes it even worse. “And don’t sell America short–don’t think for a second that we can’t do these things and also take care of DREAMers, whom overwhelming majorities of Americans want to support. These innocent kids grew up in America, only know this country, and deserve some certainty for their futures. They serve in our military and are our kids’ friends in school. They, too, deserve a chance at the American Dream. “Yesterday, even Secretary Mattis, President Trump’s own Secretary of Defense, came out in support of DREAMers in our military, promising they won’t get deported. If someone inside the Trump Administration can stand strong, so should we. What Democrats are asking from Speaker Ryan is so simple: Just do your job and allow the House of Representatives to vote on an immigration plan. Vote how you want, but give us that chance. Give these innocent kids that chance. It’s the very least we should do. “For all these reasons, I voted against this inadequate deal. And for all these reasons, I’m working hard to bring new leadership to Washington. We can do better, and I feel confident that if this deal had failed, we would have moved closer to addressing the many challenges our nation faces. That is our job.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
02.07.2018	Moulton Leads Letter to Secretary Mattis Demanding Answers in Response to Internal Audit of the Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) February 7th, 2018 Washington, D.C. – Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA), Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, led a bi-partisan letter to Defense Secretary James Mattis demanding answers in response to a report about an Ernst & Young internal audit of the Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) that describes ambiguities and lapses in oversight within the agency. A full text of the letter can be found here and below. February 6, 2018 The Honorable James Mattis Secretary of Defense 1000 Defense Pentagon Washington, DC 20301 Dear Secretary Mattis: We are writing in response to recent reports of an Ernst & Young internal audit of the Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) that describes ambiguities and lapses in oversight within the agency. One article states the audit found DLA “failed to properly document more than $800 million in construction projects” and describes “a series of other examples where it lacks a paper trail for millions of dollars in property and equipment.” Such findings about the DLA, which manages and provides supplies, materials, and equipment to U.S. military functions throughout the world, are particularly concerning given its roughly $40 billion per year budget. Moreover, one part of the Ernst & Young study, completed in mid-December, found that misstatements in the agency’s books totaled at least $465 million for construction projects it financed for the Army Corps of Engineers and other agencies and for construction projects designated as still “in progress.” Meanwhile, DLA didn’t have sufficient documentation – or any documentation at all – for another $384 million of spending. As members of the House Committee on Armed Services, we are concerned about these findings, especially as we near consideration of the Department’s Fiscal Year 2019 budget request. We therefore respectfully request your Department provide an update on overall DLA financial management and answers to the following questions: What steps has DLA taken since the Ernst & Young audit was completed last December to better account for the funds it manages? What new processes, if any, have been put in place to periodically review such policies to ensure proper oversight? Who is responsible for ensuring that these policies are implemented? What improvements, if any, to the documentation processes DLA employs are under consideration or have already been implemented? Thank you for your attention to this matter, and for your prompt response to this letter. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
02.05.2018	Moulton, Speier Call on DOD to Address Operational Security Issues Related to “Smart” Devices February 5th, 2018 Congressman Seth Moulton and Congresswoman Jackie Speier Call on Department of Defense to Address Operational Security Issues Related to “Smart” Devices Washington, D.C. – Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA), Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, and Congresswoman Jackie Speier (D-CA), Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Military Personnel Subcommittee, led a bipartisan group of members in a letter sent to Defense Secretary James Mattis requesting information on the Defense Department’s plans to review and mitigate recent disclosures of data by the firm Strava from “smart” devices used by military personnel overseas. Tomorrow, Congressman Moulton will be questioning Secretary Mattis during a House Armed Services Committee hearing on “The National Defense Strategy and the Nuclear Posture Review.” In the letter, Reps. Moulton, Speier, and their colleagues called on Secretary Mattis to provide information on the scope of the threat posed by the released data, how the Department plans on countering that threat, existing policies on personal “smart” device use, and potential future policies to address the issue. These include: What is the Defense Department’s current policy on use of “smart” technology that transmits user data at overseas bases? At classified overseas facilities? What processes does the Department have in place to periodically review such policies? Who is responsible for ensuring that these policies are implemented? What operational security training does the Department of Defense or individual military services require for individuals traveling or deploying overseas? What terrorist or foreign intelligence activity has been connected to the use of open source information, such as that generated by wearable devices? What are the Defense Department processes for mitigating security risks once a sensitive facility or program is publicly exposed? How is this information reported within the Department? How is this information reported to Congress? A copy of the letter can be found here. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
01.31.2018	Democratic National Security Task Force Responds to the President’s State of the Union Address January 31st, 2018 Washington, D.C. – The co-chairs of the Democratic Caucus’ National Security Task Force—Congressman Seth Moulton (MA), Congresswoman Stephanie Murphy (FL), and Congressman Jimmy Panetta (CA)—issued the following statement in response to the President’s State of the Union address: “The State of the Union is an opportunity for the President to explain to the American people and their representatives in Congress the most serious security threats our country faces and our plan to address those threats. Unfortunately, whether the subject was North Korea, Russia, China, Iran, or terrorism, we were treated to simplistic slogans rather than substance or strategy. Moreover, given the news that the President has refused to impose legally-required sanctions on Russia, we are deeply troubled that we heard nothing from the President about how he intends to hold Russia accountable for interfering in our democracy. Our nation deserves a clear understanding of the President’s foreign policy vision. Tonight’s speech merely added to the fog.” The Democratic Caucus National Security Task Force was established in June 2017 by the House Democratic Caucus to support the creation, execution, and public messaging of national security policies that are strong, smart, and strategic. ###
01.26.2018	WATCH: Moulton Announces 2018 State of the Union Guest January 26th, 2018 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) announced that Edenilson Granados will be his guest to the 2018 State of the Union Address. Ednilson, a father and Salvadoran immigrant, is one of over two dozen employees at Kettle Cuisine, in Lynn, Massachusetts, with Temporary Protected Status (TPS) whose futures are in question due to the Administration’s immigration policies. Watch: https://www.facebook.com/RepMoulton/videos/1516056361826434/ “Edenilson’s pursuit of a better life in the United States is the manifestation of the American Dream,” said Moulton. “The United States should be the land of promise, not a place that dashes the hopes of hardworking men and women – no matter where they were born. We in Washington must aim to restore America’s place as a land of safety and opportunity, just as Edenilson envisioned it.” “I love this country. I feel I am part of this country. I’ve lived in this country for more years than El Salvador. Right now, it’s very tough for us. I look forward to attending the State of the Union, and I hope the Congress and people in power can give us the opportunity to stay more in this country. I hope they can think about it like a father or a mother and make a better decision about giving us the opportunity to keep living the American Dream,” said Edenilson Granados. Founded in 1986, Kettle Cuisine handcrafts small batch, all natural soups from scratch for restaurants, foodservice operators and grocery retailers. “It’s hard to hear on a human level, that these employees, who have raised families here, bought homes, and been very good, productive citizens, will face the anxiety of having to go back to El Salvador and deciding if their children will stay here or go with them to a country the kids have never known,” said Kettle Cuisine CEO Liam McClennon. “On a business level, losing these highly-skilled people will be a detriment to our ability to produce a high-quality product cost-efficiently. It’s harder still because in the current economy, there just aren’t enough talented people looking for work in manufacturing.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
01.26.2018	Moulton: “This failure of leadership is beyond unacceptable” January 26th, 2018 Washington, D.C. – Today, in response to news reported by the Boston Globe that Bedford VA officials ignored costly ethics violations for years, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) released the following statement: “Our veterans deserve the best health care in the world, period. This failure of leadership is beyond unacceptable. As a veteran who receives health care from the Bedford VA, and a member of Congress, I find this report appalling. This only reinforces why we need a permanent director at Bedford and strong, stable leadership – something I’ve been calling for. It’s time for Secretary Shulkin to live up to his commitment to clean up this mess at Bedford. Veterans seeking healthcare deserve so much more than empty promises and less than adequate services. I will be reinforcing this when I speak with Secretary Shulkin, and I will continue to demand answers and do everything I can to make sure Bedford gets the permanent director it deserves.” Previously, Moulton led a letter to the House Veterans Affairs Committee demanding a hearing at Bedford to investigate patient safety issues. In October, Secretary Shulkin accepted Moulton’s invitation to visit Bedford and address concerns. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
01.22.2018	Governing crisis to crisis is no way to govern at all. January 22nd, 2018 Washington, D.C. – Today, in response to House Republicans passing yet another short-term funding bill, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) released the following statement: “Like most Americans, I have been angered and saddened to see our democracy descend into chaos over the past three days. Our country was founded upon the principles of debate and compromise. Governing crisis to crisis is no way to govern at all. “Republicans in Congress presented us with a false choice, manufactured by President Trump, between keeping the government open and providing children with health care and a bipartisan immigration solution. There’s no reason we should have to choose. We were elected with the expectation that we can debate, negotiate, and compromise to address the challenges facing our country. “I voted ‘no’ on this short-term fix because it kicks the can down the road again, which hurts our economy and prevents our military from adequately preparing to face the many threats to our national security. We should have a long-term budget, and we still don’t have a concrete guarantee that hundreds of thousands of kids who have lived in the United States their entire lives won’t be rounded up and deported. I refuse to continue voting in favor of inaction. I urge leadership to allow us to have a debate and actually work towards finding the long-term solutions our country needs and deserves.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
01.19.2018	Keeping the lights on is the very least we can be doing for the people we serve. January 19th, 2018 Moulton: “Keeping the lights on is the very least we can be doing for the people we serve.” Washington, D.C. – Today, in response to Republicans voting to shut down the federal government, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) released the following statement: “Exactly one year ago, President Trump told us at his inauguration that the swamp was going to be drained. Today, we watched members of his own party shut down our government. Republicans control the House, Senate, and the White House, yet they can’t reach a deal themselves, nor will they invite Democrats to the table for meaningful debate. This shutdown is the pure result of the fact that the people running the Congress are not interested in serving Americans. They’re interested in serving their own interests and their political ambitions. Real people are going to hurt because of this reckless decision. “We need to get back to serving the American people. We need to stop playing games for political purposes. Lives are literally on the line – whether it’s children in need of healthcare, troops who deserve paychecks, or DREAMers just looking for a chance. Keeping the lights on is the very least we can be doing for the people we serve. So let’s stop kicking the can down the road. When Republican leadership is actually ready to lead, we’ll be here.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter,Instagram, or Medium. ###
01.17.2018	Moulton, National Security Task Force Co-Chairs Visit National Counterterrorism Center January 17th, 2018 Washington, D.C. – The co-chairs of the House Democratic Caucus’ National Security Task Force — Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA), Congresswoman Stephanie Murphy (D-FL), and Congressman Jimmy Panetta (D-CA) — received intelligence briefings at the National Counterterrorism Center (NCTC) in McLean, Virginia. The NCTC leads U.S. counterterrorism efforts by gathering information on foreign and domestic threats, providing expert analysis, and supporting members of the policy, intelligence, law enforcement, defense, homeland security, and foreign affairs communities. Task Force co-chairs Panetta, Murphy, and Moulton receive a briefing at the NCTC Operations Center. In a joint statement, the Task Force co-chairs said: “The United States faces serious threats from international and home-grown terrorists, and good intelligence is the key to identifying and disrupting terrorist plots before they can harm our citizens and our allies. The NCTC is at the forefront of the fight against terrorists, and it was an honor to meet with the men and women of the NCTC who work tirelessly to keep our country safe. The briefings we received will help the Task Force as we work to promote well-informed and principled policies that protect our nation.” The Task Force co-chairs visited the NCTC as part of their broader effort to promote strong, smart, and strategic national security policies in Congress. During their visit, the co-chairs received a comprehensive overview of the NCTC’s mission by Acting Director Russ Travers, as well as in-depth briefings at the Operations Center by NCTC senior staff. High-resolution pictures of the visit can be downloaded here. The Democratic Caucus National Security Task Force was established in June 2017 by the House Democratic Caucus to support the creation, execution, and public messaging of national security policies that are smart, strategic, and strong. ###
01.16.2018	Moulton, Massachusetts Delegation Return from Oversight Trip to Puerto Rico January 16th, 2018 Washington, D.C. – Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA), and other members of the Massachusetts Congressional Delegation, traveled to Puerto Rico to conduct oversight of Hurricane Maria recovery efforts. Moulton and the delegation surveyed the damage from Hurricane Maria, assessed the work and resources necessary to help the island fully recover, and spoke with residents and government officials about how best to support the people of Puerto Rico. Moulton journaled his experience in a Medium post, which includes exclusive photos, and can be found here. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
01.10.2018	Moulton, Markey Lead Letter to Governor Baker Urging Him to Formally Oppose Offshore Drilling January 10th, 2018 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) and Senator Edward J. Markey (D-MA) led a letter from the Massachusetts Congressional Delegation to Governor Charlie Baker urging him to join other governors across the country in formally opposing the Trump Administration’s newly released offshore drilling plan. In the letter, the members stated, “The Trump Administration’s decision to pursue a massive expansion of offshore oil and gas drilling – while at the same time weakening drilling safety regulations – is short-sighted and puts many of the Commonwealth’s communities in harm’s way. We urge you to join both Democratic and Republican governors throughout the country in formally opposing the Trump Administration’s offshore drilling plan.” Joining Moulton and Markey are Senator Elizabeth Warren, and Representatives Richard Neal, Jim McGovern, Michael Capuano, Stephen F. Lynch, Niki Tsongas, William Keating, Joseph P. Kennedy III, and Katherine Clark. Full text of the letter can be found below. Dear Governor Baker: Now that the Department of the Interior (DOI) has released its draft proposed five-year offshore drilling plan, we write to encourage you to join the governors of New Jersey, Maryland, Delaware, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, California, Oregon, New Hampshire, Florida, and Washington in formally opposing efforts by the Trump Administration to open up new areas of our nation’s coastline to drilling, including federal waters off of Massachusetts and the East Coast. Allowing offshore oil and gas drilling anywhere on the East Coast would pose a serious threat to our oceans and the economic viability of the Commonwealth’s coastal communities, tourism and shore-side businesses that rely on healthy marine resources. The success and growth of the Massachusetts economy is directly connected to maritime industries that rely on healthy oceans. According to the National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) in 2015, commercial fishing in Massachusetts support 83,000 jobs, with a landed value of more than $550 million, generating $1.9 billion in income, $7.3 billion in sales and $2.9 billion in value-added impacts. In addition, tourism in Massachusetts generates tens of billions of dollars of economic value each year and supports well over 100,000 jobs. The economic effects of our ocean economy are extensive, providing a source of income and jobs for commercial and recreational fishermen, vessel manufacturers, restaurants, and other businesses throughout Massachusetts, all of which would be threatened by allowing offshore drilling and the risk of an oil spill off our coast. The economic and environmental threats posed by oil and gas development are well documented. In 2010, the BP Deepwater Horizon disaster caused a ten-year projected economic loss of $8.7 billion in fisheries, including 22,000 lost jobs. BP ultimately paid out more than $60 billion associated with cleanup, compensation, and fines. At the same time that the Trump Administration is proposing to massively expand offshore drilling, they are also weakening drilling safety regulations put in place following the BP spill. Marine ecosystems are particularly sensitive to pollution and other man-made disturbances, and a spill anywhere off the East Coast would threaten Massachusetts’ economy and environment. We commend you for previously writing to Secretary Zinke stating the Commonwealth’s opposition to opening areas off of Massachusetts to offshore drilling. Now that DOI’s draft proposed five-year offshore drilling plan has been released, we hope that you will oppose this plan that would allow drilling off of Massachusetts as well as off of nearly every single mile of coastline in the United States. The Trump Administration’s decision to pursue a massive expansion of offshore oil and gas drilling – while at the same time weakening drilling safety regulations – is short-sighted and puts many of the Commonwealth’s communities in harm’s way. We urge you to join both Democratic and Republican governors throughout the country in formally opposing the Trump Administration’s offshore drilling plan. Thank you for your attention to this important matter. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook,Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
12.20.2017	Moulton Announces Michael Nesson to be Appointed to Community Action, Inc.’s Board of Directors December 20th, 2017 Moulton: “CAI’s work is crucial to the individuals, families, and communities they serve in our District” Salem, MA – Today the Office of Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) announced the appointment of Michael Nesson to Community Action, Inc.’s Board of Directors. CAI is the largest anti-poverty organization in the Lower Merrimack Valley, serving eleven cities and towns. CAI provides resources and opportunities for individuals, families, and communities to overcome poverty. “CAI’s work is crucial to the individuals, families, and communities they serve in our District,” said Moulton. “Michael’s commitment to service and background in public education will make him an excellent board member. I am confident that Michael will help CAI excel in helping to meet the needs of low income individuals.” Michael Nesson works in public education as both an educator and consultant, providing social and emotional supports to student. “I am very excited to be appointed by Congressman Moulton as a public representative on CAI’s Board, supporting the needs of low income individuals in CAI’s region,” said Nesson. “CAI’s clients are historically underrepresented and living in the shadows struggling with economic social and other challenges. The advocacy of the Congressman’s office will help to further the work and goals of CAI.” CAI is a Community Services Block Grant eligible, private, non-profit organization. As such, a minimum of one-third of CAI’s tripartite Board must be democratically selected from representatives of low-income individuals and families who reside in the geographic area being served by the Agency and one third of the seats are public, representing elected officials, including Congressman Moulton. “Community Action is thrilled to have Michael Nesson appointed to our Board of Directors,” said President and CEO John Cuneo. “Many of our programs are funded with Federal grants; a link to Congressman Seth Moulton is critical.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook,Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
12.19.2017	Moulton: “One of the darkest days in Congressional history” December 19th, 2017 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) offered his response to House passage of the Republican Tax Plan that gives a tax break to the wealthy at the expense of the middle class. “A decade from now, Americans will look back on this day as one of the darkest days in Congressional history. Republicans are jamming a tax bill down all our throats without a single hearing, zero bipartisan input, and without listening at all to the American families and small businesses it will ruin. This partisan bill gives a permanent tax cut to the largest corporations and richest GOP donors, paid for by the middle class. Over the next few years, while the wealthiest see more money in their pockets, the majority of American families will see their taxes increase, paychecks go down, and healthcare costs go up. That’s why the American people oppose the bill 2:1. “Republicans control the House, the Senate, and the White House, so if they were proud of their bill, they would have let it stand up to public scrutiny through the normal Congressional process of hearings and debate–something Speaker Paul Ryan promised the Congress and the American people when he was sworn in. Instead, the only voices who had real input were the biggest GOP donors. This tax bill is a threat to the economy and our national security. The way it is being passed is a threat to our democratic government. “All of this reinforces why I am working to bring a new generation of leaders to Congress. When Democrats take back Congress, we must pass tax reform that will invest in the middle class, not assault it; that will grow the new businesses that are driving our economy, not corporate monopolies; and that will invest in American working families, not lobbyists and political donors. If this tax bill passes, let’s take it as a call to action to bring a new generation of Democratic leadership to Congress that will have the courage to stand up to the lobbyist and donor class and give power back to the American people.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
12.18.2017	National Security Task Force Statement on President Trump’s National Security Strategy December 18th, 2017 House Democratic Caucus National Security Task Force Statement on President Trump’s National Security Strategy Washington, D.C. – The co-chairs of the Democratic Caucus’ National Security Task Force — Congressman Seth Moulton (MA) Congresswoman Stephanie Murphy (FL), and Congressman Jimmy Panetta (CA) — issued a response to President Trump’s long awaited National Security Strategy. “The Trump administration has finally released its legally-required National Security Strategy document, as we called for in June. As we have witnessed over the past 11 months, the administration’s actions have not aligned with the language of this document. There is a fundamental disconnect between what the administration says, and what it is actually doing. “For example, the Task Force has urged the administration to use all elements of our national power, pairing a robust military posture with a forceful diplomatic presence. The document pays lip service to this notion, stating that “diplomacy is indispensable.” These words ring hollow in light of the fact that the administration has clearly sought to hollow out the State Department and marginalize diplomacy as a national security tool. “Likewise, the Task Force has encouraged the administration to strengthen, not subvert, alliances. The document states that our “allies and partners are a great strength of the United States.” Yet, as a result of the President’s actions and rhetoric, our most important partners in Europe and Asia have cause to question the U.S. commitment to our shared security. It is no surprise that confidence in U.S. leadership has fallen sharply among our closest allies. “In addition, the document says the U.S. will “offer encouragement to those struggling for human dignity in their societies.” This restates a core American principle, promoted under both Republican and Democratic administrations. However, this statement rings hollow, given the President’s praise for Russian President Vladmir Putin, Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte, and other authoritarian leaders. “More generally, the Task Force has expressed our dismay that the administration has yet to name or nominate personnel for numerous critical positions at the Departments of Defense and State. A strategy document—even if sound—is merely words on paper unless the administration has the men and women in place to execute that strategy around the globe. The credibility and importance of the National Security Strategy rely entirely on the actions of the administration and alignment of these actions with the document’s stated goals. To date, these actions have not reflected the goals in the strategy and represent a turn towards an undemocratic, inward-looking approach that stands as a poor excuse for American leadership.” The Democratic Caucus National Security Task Force was established in June 2017 by the House Democratic Caucus to support the creation, execution, and public messaging of national security policies that are smart, strategic, and strong. ###
12.18.2017	Moulton, Kelly Introduce Small Business Broadband and Emerging Information Technology Act December 18th, 2017 Moulton: “Broadband internet access should be a right, not a privilege” Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) and Congressman Trent Kelly (R-MS) announced introduction of the Small Business Broadband and Emerging Information Technology Act. This bill addresses the bipartisan push for nationwide broadband in a way that specifically targets small businesses’ needs and potential.This bipartisan bill has been endorsed by ACT | The App Association, Engine, The Internet Association, NTCA – The Rural Broadband Association, and Associated Industries of Massachusetts (AIM). “Broadband internet access should be a right, not a privilege,” said Moulton. “No matter where you live, you should be able to get the same online service, compete for the same online jobs, and communicate freely with family and friends. I am proud to be part of this bipartisan effort to achieve the goal of nationwide broadband. I urge my colleagues to join me in this effort to help small businesses and hardworking American families to be a part of the modern economy.” “It is vital that our nation’s small businesses have the tools they need to be successful,” said Kelly. “Better access to broadband technology – especially in rural areas, will help them to improve business practices, grow their client base, and create more jobs.” Specifically, the Small Business Broadband and Emerging Information Technology Act aims to: Provide training at the SBA to assist small businesses on how to maximize investment and external reach through broadband, while advising businesses lacking access on locating Wi-Fi access points and financing for broadband purchase. These resources would be disseminated to SBA district offices, Small Business Development Centers (SBDCs), and other entrepreneurship resource partners. Appoint an existing SBA senior staff member to coordinate training and programs relating to broadband and other new technologies. This coordinator position would also serve as the SBA liaison to the Broadband Opportunity Council, which was created to increase broadband investment and address existing barriers to deployment, affordability, and adoption. Require the SBA to regularly report to the House and Senate Small Business Committees on the coordinator’s activities related to broadband and emerging technologies. Require the SBA Office of Advocacy to collect data for a report on small business usage and ability to adopt broadband technology, in light of pricing and availability concerns. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
12.14.2017	A free and open internet should be the standard, not something we have to fight for December 14th, 2017 Washington, D.C. – Today, in response to the FCC voting to repeal Obama-era net neutrality protections, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) released the following statement: “A free and open internet should be the standard, not something we have to fight for. This ruling sends us down a dangerous path, where a few large corporations can control access to something Americans and small business owners rely on every single day. It takes power out of the hands of consumers and helps big businesses. We lost the battle today, but we didn’t give up without a fight. And, the fight goes on tomorrow. If we can’t convince President Trump’s FCC that a free and open internet is a right, not a privilege, then we need to take back the Congress and pass a law to make it so.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
12.08.2017	Moulton Statement on the Motion to Table the Resolution to Impeach President Trump December 8th, 2017 Washington, D.C. — Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (MA-6) voted against the Motion to Table H.Res. 646, which calls for the initiation of impeachment proceedings for President Trump. Following the vote, Congressman Moulton released this statement: “I voted against tabling the impeachment resolution because I believe the charges are legitimate and deserve a hearing. The timing of this resolution is poor; the legal argument could be stronger; and politically, advancing this now is inopportune. But when we vote, we should first and foremost consider the substance of the legislation, and here I agree with it.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook,Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
12.07.2017	Moulton Announces Historic Beverly Awarded National Endowment for the Humanities Preservation Assistance Grant December 7th, 2017 Moulton: “Historic Beverly plays a crucial role in protecting and celebrating our rich history “ Salem, MA – Today, the Office of Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) announced that Historic Beverly has been awarded a $6,000 National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH) Preservation Assistance Grant. NEH grants are highly competitive and involve a rigorous peer-review and selection process to ensure that the projects represent the highest level of humanities quality and public engagement. “I am proud to announce that Historic Beverly has received a Preservation Assistance Grant from the National Endowment for the Humanities,” said Moulton. “Historic Beverly plays a crucial role in protecting and celebrating our rich history, and connecting our community to that history through their work. I am glad the NEH recognizes the important role Historic Beverly plays in our community.” “Historic Beverly is honored to receive a Preservation Assistance Grant from the National Endowment for the Humanities,” said Susan Goganian, Director of Historic Beverly. “This funding will help us to improve public access to our collections, and provide better storage conditions for the irreplaceable objects and documents that illustrate Beverly’s history. Our goal is to connect our history to our community, and to protect our collections for future generations. Thanks to the NEH, we’ve taken another step forward towards those goals.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook,Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
12.02.2017	America is better than this. December 2nd, 2017 Washington, D.C. – Today, in response to Senate Republicans shoving through their tax bill in the early hours of the morning, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) released the following statement: “I refuse to accept that we can’t write a tax plan that creates jobs, gives back to the middle class, and doesn’t bankrupt our country in the process. We should be coming together to have a real debate about this issue, not fighting in the middle of the night and pushing through bills that double-down on the failed economic policies of the past. This bill and this process represent the worst in Washington. Republicans have presented the American people with a false choice and no vision for economic growth. America is better than this. We can cut taxes for the middle class without giving the store away to everyone else. Let’s be leaders and actually do it.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
12.01.2017	Moulton: “This confession is damning” December 1st, 2017 Washington, D.C. – Today, in response to the news that former national security advisory Michael Flynn has pled guilty to lying to the F.B.I., Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) released the following statement: “This confession is damning. Moving forward, we need to continue to protect the independent investigation. This is bigger than partisan politics. Let me be clear: it would be unacceptable for the President to take any action that impedes the Special Counsel’s investigation. Instead of forcing through a tax bill that will threaten our economy, Americans of all political stripes need to join us in protecting our democracy.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
11.16.2017	VIDEO: “We had a real opportunity to prepare our country for the 21st Century economy” November 16th, 2017 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) offered his response to passage of the Republican Tax Plan that gives a tax break to the wealthy at the expense of the middle class. Watch: https://www.facebook.com/RepMoulton/videos/1449349818497089/ Key Point: “We had a real opportunity to prepare our country for the 21st century economy; to support the small and new innovative businesses that are creating jobs when many jobs are getting automated out of existence; to support teachers and education; to invest in our future; to improve our healthcare system; to make sure that the middle class can get ahead, and that corporations and the wealthy pay their fare share. Instead we’ve passed a tax scam that will raise taxes on over 36 million Americans.” Full Transcript: “I just left the House Chamber after voting on this Republican tax scam, which will raise taxes on millions of middle class Americans. “The sad thing is we had a real opportunity to prepare our country for the 21st century economy; to support the small and new innovative businesses that are creating jobs when many jobs are getting automated out of existence; to support teachers and education; to invest in our future; to improve our healthcare system; to make sure that the middle class can get ahead, and that corporations and the wealthy pay their fare share. “Instead we’ve passed a tax scam that will raise taxes on over 36 million Americans. It will lower Medicare payments. It will remove the student loan interest deduction so people like me, who are paying our college loans, we’re not gonna get a break on our taxes anymore. “There’s so much that we need to be doing for our country, to move our country forward, and instead this plan moves us backwards. So join me in opposing it, and making sure that none of this gets past the Senate.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
11.14.2017	House Passes National Defense Authorization Act Conference Report with Moulton Amendments November 14th, 2017 House Passes National Defense Authorization Act Conference Report with Moulton Amendments Washington, D.C. – Today, the House of Representatives passed the final conference report for H.R. 2810, the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). This bill authorizes funding for the Department of Defense and other related agencies for Fiscal Year 2018. The bill will now proceed to the White House for the president’s signature. In a floor speech this afternoon, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA), member of the House Armed Services Committee and Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, said the following: “I am concerned that this administration is failing to confront the threats our country faces like Russia so I’m encouraged this bill includes a package of measures to deter Russia, including U.S. training and support for our European allies, a plan for additional sanctions on Russia linked to treaty violations, as well as a requirement for the administration to develop a strategy to counter Russia over the long term. … “Too often, big bills like this forget the troops on the ground, but this bill raises military pay by two and a half percent and takes action on specific concerns raised to me and my team by requiring a study on improving opioid prescription practices as well as additional mental health care for those transitioning out of active duty.” This bill contains important funding provisions that are beneficial to Massachusetts and the Sixth District, including: $49.7 million in funding for MIT Lincoln Labs that enables this Federally Funded Research and Development Center (FFRDC), located in the Sixth District, to continue conducting critical research on advanced technologies such as microchips, outer space, cybersecurity, and next generation communications, among others. $11.4 million for critical upgrades to the Vandenberg Gate at Hanscom Air Force Base to ensure the safety and security of base personnel while providing efficient base access. Continued funding for vital programs managed at Hanscom Air Force Base such as $417 million for recapitalization of the Joint Surveillance Target Attack Radar System (JSTARS) and language supportive of the program and the war fighter. $29.6 million for the Defense Innovation Unit – Experimental (DIUx), which, with sites in Palo Alto, Boston, and now Austin, as it continues to make important advances in getting new technologies to our warfighters in the field. In addition, Moulton led on key amendments contained in the final bill text that are critical to our national security and defense, including: Requirement for a Syria strategy: This amendment requires a comprehensive political and military strategy for U.S. policy in Syria to be submitted by the Departments of Defense and State to Congress and the American people within 90 days of enactment. Requirement for a post-conflict strategy in Syria: This amendment requires the President of the United States to submit a comprehensive Syria strategy including diplomatic, military, and humanitarian assistance efforts. Military Family Service Corps: This provision requires the Depart of Defense to examine starting a program that would give military dependents the opportunity to earn monetary educational awards for voluntary service to local military communities across the country. Afghan Special Immigrant Visa (SIV) Program: The SIV program affords Afghans such as interpreters the ability to resettle in the U.S. due to threats to their lives they and their families face on a daily basis due to their work with our armed services. Through a bipartisan effort, this program has remained alive and functioning, and 3,500 Visa’s were added to the quota. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
11.13.2017	“Republican Tax Cuts for the Rich Will Bankrupt Our Country” November 13th, 2017 Moulton: “Republican Tax Cuts for the Rich will Bankrupt our Country” Washington, D.C. – Today, as Republicans prepare to force a vote this week on their flawed and economically dangerous tax bill, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA), a member of the House Budget Committee, released the following statement: “This isn’t a tax reform plan, this is just a tax cut for the wealthy. And Republicans are shoving it down our throats. Make no mistake: Republican tax cuts for the rich will bankrupt our country – and it’s the grandkids of the middle class who will have to pay it back. “Democrats have consistently been the party that supports small and new businesses that create jobs and support our communities. Let’s help those companies, not the biggest corporations that are their competition and are already using corporate loopholes to avoid paying the taxes the rest of us have to pay. Let’s cut taxes for the middle class by closing these loopholes and ensuring that people who earn money by keeping it in an investment account pay the same taxes as those who put in a hard day’s work. “President Trump and Congressional Republicans have failed to learn the lessons Presidents George W. Bush and Ronald Reagan taught us–the lesson that the author of ‘Reagonomics,’ Bruce Bartlett has recently reaffirmed: trickle-down economics doesn’t work. “I urge my colleagues to come back to table and have a bipartisan debate about real tax reform for American families. Let’s stop bankrupting the country and start investing in our future.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
11.09.2017	Moulton Led Veterans Crisis Line Bill Passes House November 9th, 2017 Washington, D.C. – The House passed a bipartisan bill authored by Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) and Congressman Jim Banks (R-IN) that directs the Department of Veterans Affairs to study the integration of the Veterans Crisis Line (VCL) with the VA’s overall mental health care services. Veterans account for 18% of suicides in the United States, even though they are 8.5% of the population. The VCL has handled nearly 2.8 million calls since 2007. “An average of 20 veterans die daily from suicide,” said Moulton. “We need to be doing better, as a nation, at making sure those who served receive the care and support they deserve when they return home. This bill will pave the way forward to ensure our veterans are receiving the best care possible.” The Veterans Crisis Line connects veterans in crisis and their families and friends with qualified VA responders through a confidential toll-free hotline, online chat or text. The Veterans Crisis Line has received more than 2.3 million calls and 55,000 texts since the VA implemented it in 2007. “Twenty veterans die from suicide every day,” said Banks. “The Veterans Crisis Line is a critical resource for our veterans, and we want to make sure that their initial call is not the only help they receive. My bill would analyze the data already collected from these calls to ensure the VA is able to meet its goal of providing veterans with comprehensive mental health care. We need to make certain veterans are being assisted after they call the Crisis Line.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
11.07.2017	Moulton Leads Letter to Governor Baker Urging Public Support of TPS November 7th, 2017 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) led a letter with colleagues Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) and Congressman William R. Keating (D-MA) to Governor Baker strongly urging him to speak publicly in support of extending Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for Haiti, Honduras, and El Salvador. This letter calls on Governor Baker to publicly state his support for some of the largest immigrant communities in Massachusetts in the wake of the Trump Administration deciding not to extend TPS for Nicaraguans. Key Point: “We are proud to represent Massachusetts and our strong history as a state of immigrants from our founding and look forward to ensuring it remains a model of American values, freedom, and economic vitality.” A full text of the letter can be found below: November 7, 2017 Governor Charles Baker 24 Beacon St. Boston, MA 02133 Dear Governor Baker, As members of the Massachusetts Congressional delegation with a particular interest in immigration, we write to strongly urge you to speak publicly in support of extending Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for Haiti, Honduras, and El Salvador. The Trump administration’s failure to renew TPS would result in tremendous human cost not only to hard-working families and community members but the Massachusetts economy. Across our country, 320,000 individuals from 10 countries wracked by civil war, natural disasters, or other extraordinary tragedies currently hold TPS and contribute to our economy. In Massachusetts, 7,800 people are TPS holders, including 5,000 Salvadorans and 2,700 Haitians. Along with direct holders of TPS, 4,200 U.S. born children in Massachusetts have Salvadoran parents who are TPS holders and 1,000 U.S. born children in Massachusetts have Haitian parents who are TPS holders. Failure to extend TPS for these individuals would cause thousands of families to be ripped apart and communities to lose a workforce that is integral to the fabric of our state. The economic contributions of TPS holders to Massachusetts are significant. TPS holders are our friends, neighbors, and contributors to key sectors of our state’s economy including the tourism, food service, and home healthcare industries as well as retail trades. Recent analyses have shown that as much as $645 million would be lost from Massachusetts’ GDP annually without TPS holders. More specifically, Salvadoran and Haitian TPS holders contribute $426 million and $203 million respectively to Massachusetts’ economy each year. This is a concern shared by the national business community evidenced by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce recently urging the administration to extend TPS. Not only would failure to extend TPS rip apart families and communities across Massachusetts as well as negatively impact our economy, El Salvador, Honduras, and Haiti are unable to successfully reintegrate thousands of deported individuals at this time. El Salvador and Honduras are ranked among the most violent countries in the world and struggle with grinding poverty and gang activity. Haiti continues to struggle with a cholera epidemic and the inability to provide even the most basic security and medical services to its citizens. Both Republican and Democratic administrations have designated and extended TPS to populations in dire circumstances experiencing “extraordinary and temporary conditions in the foreign state that prevent aliens who are nationals of the state from returning to that state in safety” (8 U.S. Code § 1254a). The Department of Homeland Security is currently reviewing potential extension with a potential November announcement. As members of the Massachusetts Congressional delegation, we call on you to recognize the significant contributions of TPS holders to our communities and economy and speak publicly in support of TPS extension. We also urge you to work with Republican governors across the country to ensure the administration fully understands the consequences of failing to extend TPS. We are proud to represent Massachusetts and our strong history as a state of immigrants from our founding and look forward to ensuring it remains a model of American values, freedom, and economic vitality. Sincerely, Seth Moulton Jim McGovern William R. Keating Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
11.06.2017	National Security Task Force Statement on President’s Trip to Asia November 6th, 2017 House Democratic Caucus National Security Task Force Statement on President’s Upcoming Trip to Asia Washington, D.C. – The co-chairs of the Democratic Caucus’ National Security Task Force — Congressman Seth Moulton (MA) Congresswoman Stephanie Murphy (FL), and Congressman Jimmy Panetta (CA) — issued the following statement on the President’s upcoming trip to Asia, which will take place from November 3rd to November 14th and will include stops in Japan, South Korea, China, Vietnam, the Philippines, and Hawaii. “As co-chairs of the House Democratic Caucus’ National Security Task Force, we hope the President will use his forthcoming trip to Asia to demonstrate the United States’ ironclad commitment to security, stability and economic prosperity in the region, sending a clear signal of steadfastness to ally and adversary alike. We note that, nine months into office, the President has yet to nominate individuals to key positions with responsibility for U.S. policy toward the Asia-Pacific, including the Assistant Secretary of State for East Asian and Pacific Affairs and the U.S. ambassador to South Korea. We urge the President to swiftly address this self-inflicted wound. “We suspect that the subject of North Korea will dominate the agenda, given the stakes involved. We recently led a letter—signed by 65 of our colleagues—calling on the President to adopt a ‘strong, strategic and steady’ policy toward Pyongyang. On the eve of the President’s trip to the region, we reiterate our appeal. While we recognize that North Korea’s dangerous actions are the root cause of current tensions, we also believe that the President’s reckless rhetoric and muddled messages to allies have made the problem worse. We urge the President to chart a careful course that avoids capitulation to, or catastrophic war with, North Korea. A successful strategy should be built on five pillars: increasing economic pressure on North Korea through the imposition and vigorous enforcement of sanctions; enhancing crisis-management channels with North Korea to clarify intentions and minimize the risk of miscalculation; strengthening, rather than subverting, our alliances with South Korea, Japan and other regional partners; filling key vacancies at the Department of State and the Department of Defense; and continuing to make clear to North Korea that an attack on the U.S. or our allies will produce unacceptable consequences for the North Korean regime. “This trip provides an opportunity for the President to repair any damage to our alliance with South Korea caused by the President’s bellicose statements that do not sufficiently recognize the catastrophic risks that military conflict would pose for South Korea, his suggestion that the U.S. might withdraw from the United States-Korea Free Trade Agreement, and by his tweet accusing South Korea’s president of ‘appeasement.’ We hope the President will make an unequivocal expression of solidarity with South Korea, with whom the United States shares a bond built in battle and shaped by shared sacrifice. “Finally, we are concerned by reports that the President intends to skip the East Asia Summit, an annual meeting of heads of state. We believe the President’s participation in the Summit would send a valuable signal regarding the United States’ continued commitment to, and leadership in, this critically-important region. The failure of the President to attend risks unravelling the goodwill that his trip is designed to build, and leaves the door open for our competitors in the region to build consensus on issues during the Summit that may run counter to U.S. interests.” The Task Force-led letter to the President regarding North Korea, dated October 3, 2017, is reproduced below: *** Dear Mr. President, We write to urge you to adopt a strong, strategic and steady policy toward North Korea, whose rapidly advancing nuclear and missile capabilities threaten the United States and our allies. We acknowledge two fundamental points. First, North Korea’s dangerous and destabilizing actions, in defiance of U.N. Security Council resolutions dating back to 2006, are the root cause of tensions between North Korea and the international community. Nevertheless, we believe your rhetoric in response has been counterproductive, escalating an already-dangerous situation. Second, while North Korea has been described as “the land of lousy options,” we believe the U.S. can maximize the chance of success by charting a careful course that avoids capitulation to, or catastrophic war with, North Korea. In our view, U.S. strategy toward North Korea should be guided by the following principles. Increase Economic Pressure on North Korea Through the Imposition and Effective Enforcement of Sanctions U.S. and international economic sanctions on North Korea should be calibrated to make it harder for North Korea to import the technology and acquire the hard currency necessary to advance its nuclear and missile programs. They should also be tailored to produce sufficient economic hardship, particularly among the regime’s elites, to cause Kim Jong-un to conclude that the cost of these programs outweigh their benefit and—accordingly—to choose negotiation over aggression. While U.S. and U.N. sanctions were recently strengthened, we believe there is room for more serious and sustained economic pressure on North Korea in an effort to change its strategic calculus. While multilateral agreement to impose sanctions requires a significant diplomatic commitment, effective enforcement of sanctions involves even more time and resources. Far more should be done to ensure that other nations, including but not limited to China, are fulfilling their legal obligations. If a country has the will but not the ability to enforce sanctions against North Korea, the U.S. should offer technical or financial assistance. Conversely, if a country possesses the capacity but not the desire to implement sanctions, American officials should make clear to that country that it risks a fundamental breach in our bilateral relationship. The U.S. intelligence community, the Department of the Treasury, and the Department of State should monitor, address and—where appropriate—penalize non-compliance in accordance with U.S. sanctions law. Enhance U.S. Diplomatic Efforts, Especially Crisis Management Channels Tough, principled diplomacy with North Korea is not a concession or sign of weakness. President Reagan negotiated with the Soviet Union at the height of the Cold War. Whether North Korea is prepared to negotiate an enduring and verifiable suspension of its nuclear and missile programs in exchange for sanctions relief is up to Pyongyang. But the United States should always be ready and willing to talk without preconditions. In the interim, the U.S. must establish effective crisis-management channels with North Korea to clarify intentions and minimize the risk of miscalculation. When the U.S. communicates clearly and consistently to an adversary, it makes it less likely that the adversary will intentionally or inadvertently begin a conflict. Strengthen, Don’t Subvert, Alliances in East Asia At his confirmation hearing, Secretary of Defense James Mattis stated: “History is clear: nations with strong allies thrive and those without them wither.” We are concerned that U.S. alliances in East Asia, particularly our security and economic partnership with South Korea, are being mismanaged. After North Korea’s latest nuclear test, we were discouraged to see you accuse South Korean President Moon of “appeasement” toward North Korea, a claim as untrue as it is unhelpful. Furthermore, while we have a range of views on the 2012 U.S.-Korea Free Trade Agreement, we believe that now is the wrong time for the administration to engage in loose talk about unilateral withdrawal from the agreement. Kim Jong-un seeks to undermine the relationship between the U.S. and South Korea and to cause South Korea to question the credibility of our commitments. We should stand steadfast with our allies, not further Kim’s efforts to divide us. Recognize that Personnel is Policy We are disappointed that, eight months into your tenure, key policymakers needed to craft and carry out U.S. strategy in East Asia are not in place. At the Department of State, you have yet to nominate an individual to serve as Assistant Secretary in the Bureau of East Asian and Pacific Affairs, U.S. Ambassador to South Korea, or Under Secretary for Arms Control and International Security. At the Department of Defense, you have not nominated an individual to serve as Assistant Secretary for Asian and Pacific Security Affairs or appointed an individual to serve as Deputy Assistant Secretary for East Asia. These are self-inflicted wounds. We urge you to swiftly nominate or name qualified individuals to these critical positions. Maintain Deterrence and Defense For nearly 65 years, U.S. leadership, military presence, and engagement with allies has prevented another devastating conflict on the Korean peninsula. While Kim Il-Sung, Kim Jong-Il, and now Kim Jong-un have acted aggressively, each has concluded that a direct attack on the U.S. or our allies would produce unacceptable consequences for the regime. The U.S. must continue to impart this message to North Korea through a variety of means, including by enhancing defensive systems and bolstering defense cooperation and intelligence sharing with South Korea and Japan. Rather than using reckless rhetoric and sending muddled messages to our allies, the U.S. should pursue a comprehensive strategy toward North Korea that consists of economic pressure, strong and steady diplomacy, and credible deterrence and defense. The Democratic Caucus National Security Task Force was established in June 2017 by the House Democratic Caucus to support the creation, execution, and public messaging of national security policies that are smart, strategic, and strong. ###
11.01.2017	Moulton to Lead Nationwide Effort to Host Veterans Town Halls November 1st, 2017 Hosting Third Annual Veterans Town Hall in Marblehead on November 11th Salem, MA – On Saturday, November 11, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) will host his third annual Veterans Town Hall. This year, Moulton is leading a nationwide effort to host Veteran Town Halls across the country. Over Veterans Day weekend, organizations and congressional offices representing both political parties will participate in this special event. The first Vets Town Hall was held on Veterans Day 2015. The idea, conceived by author Sebastian Junger, was simple but powerful: to provide a forum for veterans to share the pride, grief, or quiet appreciation of life that war bestowed upon them and for non-veterans to listen and to learn. Moulton, a Marine combat veteran, hosted the first Veterans Town Hall in Marblehead, Massachusetts — held in historic Abbott Hall, the community’s town hall and gathering place for nearly 150 years. Several hundred local residents turned out to hear the unique stories of nearly two dozen veterans. These community forums establish greater understanding between local veterans and the friends and neighbors they served. These veterans represented every branch of the military and every military conflict dating back to World War II. The oldest storyteller, Bill Needleman, was a 100-year old Army Air Corps veteran who participated in the Normandy invasion on D-Day. Veterans Town Halls give veterans of all wars a chance to address their community directly and without intermediaries. A veteran speaking at a Veteran Town Hall will look out over a crowd that has many familiar faces in it, as well as complete strangers. These are the people he risked his life for. These are the people she went to war for. No one goes to war and returns home unaffected. It’s not fair—or healthy—for veterans to be left alone with these burdens. They belong to all of us. WHO: Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) WHAT: Veterans Town Hall WHEN: Saturday, November 11,11:00 AM WHERE: Abbot Hall, 188 Washington St, Marblehead, MA 01945 RSVP: Matt Corridoni, (202) 603-1859 To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
10.26.2017	Moulton: “We cannot declare a public health emergency without actually allocating resources to help combat it” October 26th, 2017 Washington, D.C. – Today, in response to President Trump’s opioid announcement, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) released the following statement: “Of course the opioid epidemic is a public health emergency. Now that the Administration has made this declaration, it’s time for the president to actually act. Republicans cannot have the best of both worlds. We cannot keep having conversations about gutting the ACA while simultaneously talking about the opioid epidemic. And we cannot declare a public health emergency without actually allocating resources to help combat it. “Only 1 in 10 people with an opioid addiction is receiving the treatment he or she needs, and this is largely because of a lack of insurance. Now more than ever, we must rise above politics – peoples lives are literally on the line. My district, like so many others, has been impacted by opioid addiction. This epidemic has touched all of us personally in some way and it’s time to act. “I will continue to focus my efforts on ensuring more Americans have health care coverage and access to treatment. I invite my colleagues to stop trying to drive premiums up and coverage down so we can actually focus on the task at hand – making our communities healthier and safer.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
10.13.2017	Moulton: “President Trump’s decision not to re-certify the Iran nuclear deal is dangerous for our national security” October 13th, 2017 Washington, D.C. – Today, in response to President Trump’s decision not to re-certify the Iran nuclear deal, Congressmen Seth Moulton (D-MA) released the following statement: “President Trump’s decision not to re-certify the Iran nuclear deal is dangerous for our national security and helps empower the worst elements of the Iranian regime. Our ultimate goal is to prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon and this deal, while imperfect, remains the best available option to do just that. That is why Trump’s own national security team–including Secretary Mattis, Chairman Dunford, and the State Department–have urged the president to re-certify the deal. “In six separate reports since 2015, the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) has certified Iran’s compliance with the agreement. Secretary Mattis and Chairman Dunford have also made it clear in recent public testimony that there is no factual basis for not re-certifying. Therefore, doing so only serves to further undermine the credibility of the United States at a time when President Trump’s personal difficulty with the truth has called that credibility into grave question time and again. “Backing out of the Iran deal opens the door to Iran again posing an imminent nuclear threat to our allies in the region, especially Israel, and the world. It gives credibility to Iranian hard-line extremists who objected to the restrictions imposed by the deal in the first place – the same elements who have attacked American troops in Iraq. We must continue to counter Iran’s range of hostile action in the Middle East that is outside the scope of the nuclear agreement, but our ability to do so will be hampered by undermining the deal and having to re-address the nuclear issue as well. “By abandoning our allies and jeopardizing international security, President Trump is deepening the divide between the U.S. and our oldest and strongest European partners who are party to the agreement. At a critical time when we need credibility as a negotiating partner to disarm North Korea, Trump is undermining our country’s efforts. “I have seen fellow Americans killed in Iraq by the weapons and influence of the Iranian regime. I understand firsthand the threat Iran poses to America and our allies. As a member of the House Armed Service Committee and Co-Chair of the Democratic Caucus’ National Security Task Force, I am exploring legislative options to prevent Trump from further jeopardizing our national security.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
10.10.2017	Moulton, Curbelo Introduce Bipartisan Legislation to Ban “Bump Stocks” October 10th, 2017 Moulton: “It is time for Democrats and Republicans alike to find the courage to act” Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressmen Seth Moulton (D-MA) and Carlos Curbelo (R-FL) introduced bipartisan legislation to ban the manufacture, sale, and use of “bump stocks” and similar devices.The legislation would also make violation of the law a felony and allow for increased penalties for offenders through a review of federal sentencing guidelines. The perfectly bipartisan effort has 20 original co-sponsors – 10 Republicans and 10 Democrats. “I am proud to be leading on the only bipartisan effort to take action in the wake of this tragedy,” said Moulton. “We can always be doing more, but this bill is a crucial starting point. Congress needs to take a serious look, after every crisis, at whether a law consistent with the 2nd Amendment would have prevented it. It is time for Democrats and Republicans alike to find the courage to act. Keeping this conversation going, passing this legislation, and listening to the American people will allow us to help make America safer so that we do not need to live in fear of weapons of war being used against our families and friends.” “For the first time in decades, there is growing bipartisan consensus for sensible gun policy, a polarizing issue that has deeply divided Republicans and Democrats,” Curbelo said. “This common-sense legislation will ban devices that blatantly circumvent already existing law without restricting Second Amendment rights. I’m proud to join Representative Moulton to lead our colleagues in this important first step to address gun violence in our country and show that Congress is capable of working constructively in a bipartisan way to make Americans safer.” The legislation is available here. Original co-sponsors include: Republicans Carlos Curbelo (FL-26) Peter King (NY-2) Leonard Lance (NJ-7) Patrick Meehan (PA-7) Ed Royce (CA-39) Chris Smith (NJ-4) Erik Paulsen (MN-3) Ryan Costello (PA-6) Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (FL-27) Charlie Dent (PA-15) Democrats Seth Moulton (MA-6) Jared Polis (CO-2) Robin Kelly (IL-2) Jacky Rosen (NV-3) Beto O’Rourke (TX-16) Matt Cartwright (PA-17) Tulsi Gabbard (HI-2) Ruben Kihuen (NV-4) John Delaney (MD-6) Gene Green (TX-29) “Bump stocks” are devices that use a semi-automatic weapon’s recoil to allow rapid fire at a rate mirroring that of a fully automatic weapon — 400 to 800 rounds a minute. These devices are legal, unregulated, widely available, and can be purchased online for as little as $100. Their sole purpose is to exacerbate the rate of fire. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter,Instagram, or Medium. ###
10.05.2017	Moulton, Curbelo Lead Bipartisan Effort to Ban “Bump Stocks” October 5th, 2017 Moulton: “It’s time for Members of Congress to find the courage to come together and finally do something to help stop the epidemic of mass shootings” Washington, DC. – Today, Congressmen Seth Moulton (D-MA) and Carlos Curbelo (R-FL) announced they are leading a perfectly bipartisan effort to introduce legislation to ban the manufacture, sale, and use of “bump stocks.” The Members hope to introduce and move legislation as quickly as possible. “It’s time for Members of Congress to find the courage to come together and finally do something to help stop the epidemic of mass shootings,” said Moulton. “As members of Congress, it is our responsibility to protect the American people. Thoughts and prayers are not enough. I am proud to be leading this bipartisan effort to take action to keep our communities safe.” “For the first time in decades, there is growing bipartisan consensus for firearm reform, a polarizing issue that has deeply divided Republicans and Democrats,” said Curbelo. “Common sense legislation that does not restrict Second Amendment rights is an important first step in addressing gun violence in our country. By banning devices that blatantly circumvent already existing law, we can show that Congress is capable of working constructively to make Americans safer.” “Bump stocks” are devices that use a semi-automatic weapon’s recoil to allow it to fire at a rate mirroring that of a fully automatic weapon — 400 to 800 rounds a minute. These weapons are legal, unregulated, widely available, and can be purchased online for as little as $100. Their sole purpose is to exacerbate the rate of fire. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
10.05.2017	Moulton, Democratic Caucus’ National Security Task Force Send Letter to Administration Demanding North Korea Policy October 5th, 2017 Moulton: “The Democratic National Security Task Force is stepping into the Administration’s leadership vacuum” Washington, DC. – Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA), co-chair of the Democratic Caucus’ National Security Task Force, along with fellow co-chairs Reps. Stephanie Murphy (D-FL) and Jimmy Panetta (D-CA) sent a letter to President Donald Trump, calling on his administration to pursue a “strong, strategic, and steady” policy towards North Korea, which has been developing and testing nuclear devices and missiles in defiance of U.N. Security Council resolutions. A total of 68 Members of Congress, including the co-chairs, signed the letter. “This administration has shown that it does not have a strategy when it comes to dealing with the threat of North Korea,” said Moulton. “The President is clearly not on the same page as his own Secretary of Defense and Secretary of State. This makes his military threats not credible; it leads our allies to view us as untrustworthy, right when they need us most; and by ratcheting up tensions, he is closing down diplomatic options when they are most critical. The Democratic National Security Task Force is stepping into the Administration’s leadership vacuum and has convened experts and devised strategy to provide a smarter, stronger approach to North Korea’s unacceptable behavior. As a Co-Chair of the task force, I am proud to be joined by other Democrats who are ready to provide steady leadership while President Trump’s bluster risks blundering us into a nuclear war.” In the letter, the task force outlines a U.S. strategy that would include: Increase economic pressure on North Korea through the imposition and effective enforcement of sanctions Enhance crisis-management channels with North Korea and be prepared to engage in tough, principled negotiations with Pyongyang without preconditions; strengthen, rather than subvert, our alliances with South Korea, Japan and other regional partners Nominate or name qualified individuals to critical, unfilled positions at the Department of State and the Department of Defense; and continue to make clear to North Korea—through a variety of means—that an attack on the U.S. or its allies in the region will produce unacceptable consequences for the North Korean regime. “Responsibility for addressing the serious threat from North Korea lies squarely with the Trump administration,” said Murphy. “I am concerned by the President’s approach to date, which has been characterized more by tough talk than by strong, smart, and steady actions that make our country and our allies safer. U.S. policy toward North Korea should consist of economic pressure, strong and steady diplomacy, and credible deterrence and defense.” The letter recognizes that North Korea’s dangerous and destabilizing actions are the root cause of tensions between North Korea and the international community, but expresses the view that the President’s reckless rhetoric and muddled messages to allies have made the problem worse. The letter states that “the U.S. can maximize the chance of success by charting a careful course that avoids capitulation to, or catastrophic war with, North Korea.” “North Korea’s continued provocations must be met with strong, steady, and strategic action, not schoolyard rhetoric” said Panetta. “That is why we are calling upon the President to implement a strategy that uses economic pressure, firm diplomacy, and deterrence to address this paramount national security challenge. North Korea’s advancing nuclear and missile capabilities represent a growing threat that must be met with comprehensive action that uses all the tools in our toolkit to deescalate tensions, reassure our allies, and protect American citizens.” The full text of the letter is below and the signed letter can be found here. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
09.21.2017	Moulton Announces Over $150k in FEMA Grants for Area Firefighters September 21st, 2017 Moulton: “These grants will help ensure our first responders have the resources and training they need to keep us safe.” Salem, MA – Today, the Office of Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) announced the awarding of over $150,000 in FEMA grants to three fire departments in the Sixth District. The Merrimac and Wakefield Fire Departments have been named the recipients of Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG). Additionally, the Georgetown Fire Department has been awarded over $10,000 through the Fire Prevention and Safety Grant program. More information about FEMA’s fire grant programs is available here. The FEMA fire grants include: Merrimac – $118,096 for Firefighters Breathing Apparatus Wakefield –- $45,455 for Vehicle Extrication Equipment Georgetown – $10,475 for a Community Risk Assessment “I am grateful to FEMA for recognizing the need to invest in local fire departments,” said Moulton. “Our firefighters play an integral role in our communities. These grants will help ensure our first responders have the resources and training they need to keep us safe.” “Emergencies can strike at any time and it is critical that our Merrimac firefighters are prepared to respond to dangerous situations,” said Chief Ralph Spencer of the Merrimac Fire Department. “By receiving this federal Assistance to Firefighter Grant award from FEMA, we will be able to provide our firefighters with the tools they need to stay safe while protecting our citizens and mitigate any emergency situation”. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
09.19.2017	Moulton Introduces Bold Legislation to Broadly Expand Access to Higher Education September 19th, 2017 Moulton: “This bill will help provide our children the opportunity to be successful in the modern economy by eliminating barriers that stand in the way of a good education” Washington, DC. – Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA), along with Congressman Bobby Scott (D-VA), ranking member of the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-CA), ranking member of the Subcommittee on Higher Education and Workforce Development, and Representatives Anthony Brown (D-MD) and Donald Norcross (D-NJ), introduced the America’s College Promise Act of 2017, which would make two years of community college free and provide an affordable pathway to a four-year college degree for low-income students. This legislation is a cornerstone proposal included in House Democrats’ Aim Higher initiative, a package of legislative initiatives focused on providing all students with access to a meaningful degree that costs less money and leads to a good paying job. “Far too many students are taking on the economic burden of attending college without the skills necessary to complete their degree,”said Moulton. “This bill will help provide our children the opportunity to be successful in the modern economy by eliminating barriers that stand in the way of a good education.” “Students and families are faced with the overwhelming burden of figuring out how to pay for college,” said Scott. “This bill will help more families gain access to quality, affordable higher education opportunities. For low-income students, this bill creates a clear pathway to a four-year degree. At a time when families feel that it is almost impossible to get a college degree at an affordable price, America’s College Promise (ACP) is a bold investment in our students to ensure they gain the skills they need to compete in a 21st century economy.” The bill provides a federal match of $3 for every $1 invested by the state to waive community college tuition and fees for eligible students before other financial aid is applied. America’s College Promise would also help to cover a significant portion of tuition and fees— for either the first two years or last two years of college—for low-income students who choose to attend qualifying HBCUs, HSIs, AANAPISIs, and other MSIs. “Community college can be a springboard to a 4-year degree or an opportunity to develop critical workforce skills,” said Davis. “We must be expanding education opportunities at every level to allow students to find the education paths that work best for them. The America’s College Promise Act will open up even more opportunities for Americans to thrive in higher education and the workplace.” America’s College Promise is supported by the Association of Community College Trustees (ACCT) and the American Association of Community Colleges (AACC). To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium.
09.10.2017	Moulton Awards Jason McCuish, of Lynn, with Second Annual Peter J. Gomes Service Award September 10th, 2017 Moulton: “As we gather to remember the tragedy of September 11th and reflect on the sacrifices made for our country, we must also ask ourselves what we can do in our own lives to give back.” Salem, MA – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) announced that Jason McCuish of Lynn, a local teacher at Lynn Tech and a volunteer at My Brother’s Table, was the recipient of the Second Annual Peter J. Gomes Service Award at a ceremony at Lynn City Hall. The Peter J. Gomes Service Award is given to an individual in the Sixth Congressional District of Massachusetts who best epitomizes the qualities of integrity, compassion, and commitment to community that were the foundation of the late Reverend Professor Peter J. Gomes’ teachings. “Jason exemplifies the teachings of the late Reverend Professor Peter J. Gomes – a commitment to service over self,” said Moulton. “As we gather to remember the tragedy of September 11th and reflect on the sacrifices made for our country, we must also ask ourselves what we can do in our own lives to give back. Jason is not only being selfless in his acts of service, he is encouraging and inspiring a new generation to be compassionate and service-driven as well. I congratulate Jason and applaud all of the finalists this year for the selfless work they do to make our community and country a better place to live.” Following the award ceremony, Seth, McCuish, and more than 50 other volunteers participated in service activities including: serving a meal at My Brother’s Table, home renovation with Lynn Housing and Neighborhood Development, fall cleanup at Girls Inc. Lynn, farming at The Food Project Lynn Park, and a cleanup at Lynn Commons. “Giving back is something we should all do because when we give back, we are the ones who receive the most,” said Jason McCuish. “This is a sentiment my students and I share before we conduct any service project. Service builds core values and empathy, and is a vital component to develop into a well-rounded human being. Service also strengthens connections to others in the community; and, most importantly, service helps one to attain stronger realizations about life, love and humility.” Other finalists for the award this year included: Jocelyn Cook of Marblehead, Founder of SPUR, Anne Deneen of Gloucester, Reverend for St. Paul Lutheran Church, Brenda Mattos of Beverly, Volunteer who works with the homeless, Mary Margaret Moore of Salem, Former Director of the Independent Living Center of the North Shore and Cape Ann, Rick Palardy formerly of Georgetown, Fireman and community volunteer, Sandra Suarez of Lynn, Operations Manager at Compass Working Capital, and Rob Werner of Salisbury, Founder of the Leeward Foundation. Photos from the ceremony and the service activities can be found here. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, orMedium. ###
09.05.2017	Moulton Statement on Administration Decision to End DACA September 5th, 2017 Moulton: “It is cruel and unusual, and clearly motivated purely by anti-immigrant political pandering” Washington, D.C. – Today, in response to the Administration’s decision to end DACA, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) released the following statement: “DACA has allowed thousands of innocent children to come out of the shadows and get their rightful shot at the American Dream. Repealing DACA puts our friends, neighbors, colleagues, students, and service members at risk of deportation. It is cruel and unusual, and clearly motivated purely by anti-immigrant political pandering. We should be working together, the President and Congress, Democrats and Republicans, on comprehensive immigration reform that includes improved border security and an earned path to citizenship for those who are already part of our communities. I condemn any attempt to repeal DACA and will fight to protect it.” In Massachusetts alone, DACA has allowed more than 7,900 young people to come forward, pass background checks, and live and work legally in the country. Ending DACA would cost Massachusetts nearly $606.6 million in annual GDP losses. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
08.29.2017	Moulton Announces Nearly $900K Grant to Help Students with Autism August 29th, 2017 Moulton: “I applaud Pellet Productions, Inc. for identifying an innovative way to tackle educational challenges” Salem, MA – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) announced that the National Science Foundation (NSF) has awarded a grant worth $898,673.00 to Pellet Productions, Inc., a storytelling and digital strategy firm in Reading, to help students with autism. With the grant, Pellet Productions will produce a series of video-based educational materials for the professional development of educators and employers that builds awareness of academic and employer-based STEM programs aimed at promoting the college and workplace based success of individuals with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD). This project will also promote existing “best practices” to an expanded community of educational institutions, students with ASD and their families, and employers. “I applaud Pellet Productions, Inc. for identifying an innovative way to tackle educational challenges”, said Moulton. I am proud to have helped secure this grant, which will expose many more individuals to best practices in helping individuals with autism achieve success in the classroom and at work. I look forward to supporting other programs like this, that use creative and innovative tools to promote academic and employer-based programs. Together, we can support families and prepare students for success in the classroom and in the modern economy.” The National Science Foundation (NSF) supports research, innovation, and discovery aimed at providing the foundation for economic growth. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
08.28.2017	Report Ranks Moulton in Top 10% of Most Bipartisan Members of Congress August 28th, 2017 Moulton: “I was elected to make progress for the Sixth District and the country” Salem, MA – Today, the Office of Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) announced that an analysis of bipartisanship among members of Congress ranked Moulton 34 out of 427 members in the House — in the top 10% of most bipartisan members of Congress. Among House Democrats, Moulton ranked 11th-most bipartisan. “It’s fundamental to my job that I am a representative for all residents of the Sixth District, regardless of political views,” said Moulton. “I was elected to make progress for the Sixth District and the country. Every day I strive to work across the aisle with my Republican colleagues to make progress for the American people, and I’m proud my record reflects that.” The Lugar Center and Georgetown University’s McCourt School of Public Policy have studied bipartisanship among members of the House and Senate and produce a non-partisan ranking of how often each Member of Congress works across party lines. The Bipartisan Index measures the frequency with which a Member co-sponsors a bill introduced by the opposite party and the frequency with which a Member’s own bills attract co-sponsors from the opposite party. On the report, former Senator Richard Lugar wrote, “A consistently high score is a strong indication that a legislator is prioritizing problem solving and open to working with the other party when possible.” In his first term, Moulton’s bipartisan Faster Care for Veterans Act was signed into law to modernize veterans’ access to healthcare with technology available to private-sector patients. This year, Moulton’s bipartisan Modernizing Government Travel bill and Global War on Terrorism Memorial Act were two of 55 bills out of over 3,000 introduced in this Congress to be signed into law by the President. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
08.28.2017	Moulton Announces Nahant Fire Department Awarded Assistance to Firefighters Grant August 28th, 2017 Moulton: “Our firefighters play an integral role in our communities” Salem, MA – Today, the Office of Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) announced that the Nahant FIre Department has been awarded a $50,477 FEMA Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG). The primary goal of the Assistance to Firefighters Grants is to enhance the safety of the public and firefighters with respect to fire-related hazards by providing direct financial assistance to eligible fire departments, nonaffiliated Emergency Medical Services (EMS) organizations, and State Fire Training Academies (SFTA). The grant will be used by the fire department to purchase an Air Refill – Compressor System. “Our firefighters play an integral role in our communities,” said Moulton. “This grant will help ensure the safety of our first responders. I am grateful to FEMA for recognizing the need to invest in local fire departments and keeping our first responders safe.” “We are thrilled to be the recipient of an AFG grant award which will be used to protect our local firemen through the proper maintenance of our breathing air system,” said Nahant Town Administrator Jeff Chelgren. “Small communities such as Nahant rely heavily upon grant programs such as the Assistance to Firefighters Grant to supplement our limited resources in order to provide for needed community services and to protect those who serve the public. We are grateful to FEMA and the AFG program and we very much appreciate the advocacy we receive from our State and Federal representatives including Congressman Moulton, Senator McGee, and Representative Crighton.” “We are very grateful to the AFG program for the opportunity to upgrade our breathing air system,” said Fire Chief Feinburg. “Having a safe and reliable system to maintain our air tanks provides an increased level of safety for our firefighters. We would like to thank FEMA and the AFG program, along with Representative Moulton and our other elected officials, for continuing this invaluable program that brings much needed equipment to communities that would otherwise be unable to fund such a purchase.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook,Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
08.22.2017	Moulton Statement on President Trump’s Afghanistan Speech August 22nd, 2017 Moulton: “Our service men and women deserve a concrete plan that will end the longest war in American history in a way that honors their sacrifice” Washington, D.C. – In response to President Trump’s speech announcing that additional troops will be deployed to Afghanistan, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) released the following statement: “Our service men and women deserve a concrete plan that will end the longest war in American history in a way that honors their sacrifice. After the President’s speech, it is clear that their wait will continue. “President Trump, like Presidents Bush and Obama before him, has failed to define a political strategy to secure the peace in tandem with our military effort. While the regional approach spelled out by the President is encouraging, sending thousands of additional young Americans to war is no substitute for defined goals and a strategy to achieve them. “Moreover, the Trump administration continues to eviscerate the State Department, crippling the very agency that should be at the forefront of such a regional political strategy. “As the top Democrat on the Armed Services Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee, I will continue pressing the Administration to present a plan to win lasting peace in Afghanistan.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
08.17.2017	New Study Finds that NSRL Less Expensive than Previously Reported August 17th, 2017 Moulton: “The Most Transformative Infrastructure Investment We Can Make as A Commonwealth and A Region” Salem, MA – Today, the Harvard Kennedy School (HKS) released a report about the projected cost of the North-South Rail Link (NSRL), a 2.8 mile tunnel between North and South Stations that would fully integrate the Commonwealth’s commuter rail network. The study found that the construction of the NSRL will be significantly less expensive than previously reported. Authored by Professor Linda Bilmes of the Harvard Kennedy School, the report’s key takeaways include: An estimated cost of approximately $4.5 billion for the project—far less than the $12 billion forecast in 2003 (all figures adjusted to 2017 dollars). This conservative estimate accounts for a 16.4 percent Massachusetts cost premium and a 50 percent overall contingency factor. HKS calls for a full environmental impact review of the NSRL to better understand the cost-benefit of the project. Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA), a supporter of the NSRL, calls it “the most transformative infrastructure investment we can make as a Commonwealth and a region,” and believes that there are ways to make the project even more affordable through the utilization of new project management structures, including public-private partnerships. In response to the report, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) issued the following statement: “I am glad to see that, due to technological advances, the current cost estimate is much lower than originally projected. “Of course, the ultimate decision on making this investment should be made after evaluating the benefits as well as the costs. I am confident that further analysis will reveal what a massively positive impact the rail link will make on our economy, on access to jobs, and on the lives of millions who travel in the region—including those far from Boston who never benefited from The Big Dig. “Massachusetts is currently ranked the number 1 state in the country; however, Massachusetts ranks 45th in the nation in transportation and 47th in commute times. Boston’s commute is now the 18th most congested in the world. The North-South Rail Link is the type of innovative project we should be investing in as we continue to build a 21st Century economy. Massachusetts was the first state to say you can marry the person you love, we were the first state to make healthcare a human right, and we built the first electric subway in North America. We do not shy away from tough challenges like making significant investments to expand and enhance transportation and our economy.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium.
08.10.2017	Nomination Process Open for Second Annual Peter J. Gomes Service Award August 10th, 2017 Salem, MA – The Office of Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) has announced the opening of nominations for the second annual Peter J. Gomes Service Award. The award is given to an individual in the Sixth Congressional District of Massachusetts who best epitomizes the qualities of integrity, compassion, and commitment to community that were the foundation of the late Reverend Professor Peter J. Gomes’ teachings. Individuals and organizations who know of someone who might qualify for the award can nominate them here. Nominations should include a list of specific projects with which the individual has been involved, along with pertinent biographical details and an account of his or her vision and practice of service as exemplified by those of the late Professor Gomes. The nomination period will close on August 27, 2017. The 2017 Peter J. Gomes Service Award will be presented on Sunday, September 10, 2017 and will be directly followed by a Day of Service. Reverend Professor Peter J. Gomes was a professor of religion at Harvard Divinity School, and the renowned preacher at Harvard Memorial Church, where Seth attended throughout college. He inspired Seth, and countless others, to live a life of service. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
08.04.2017	Moulton, Bonamici, Costello, Meehan Introduce Bipartisan Effort to Prevent Student Loan Defaults August 4th, 2017 Moulton: “The SIMPLE Act will eliminate burdensome paperwork and automatically connect struggling borrowers with the federal help already available to them” Washington, D.C. – Representatives Seth Moulton (D-MA), Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR), Ryan Costello (R-PA), and Patrick Meehan (R-PA) have introduced the SIMPLE Act, legislation to reduce administrative burdens on struggling student loan borrowers. The legislation allows vulnerable borrowers to automatically enroll in affordable income-driven loan repayment plans, and it removes burdensome paperwork requirements for totally and permanently disabled borrowers whose loans are discharged. The SIMPLE Act will also help borrowers keep payments affordable by automating the annual process of updating borrowers’ income information while enrolled in income-driven repayment plans. Senator Ron Wyden plans to (D-OR) introduce similar legislation in the Senate. “The SIMPLE Act will eliminate burdensome paperwork and automatically connect struggling borrowers with the federal help already available to them,” said Moulton. “One group of individuals this will help are those living with ALS. ALS is a cruel and unforgiving disease, and it’s vital that we provide the best possible care for people living with it. I’m one of the millions of people inspired by my friend, Pete Frates. I was appalled to learn that Pete was still obligated to pay student loans because of a lack of communication between agencies. This is an example of bureaucracy at its worst. The last thing someone living with ALS should have to worry about is dealing with additional financial burdens. We must fix this government inefficiency for Pete and everyone else living with ALS.” “Many people struggle to manage student loan payments when they have competing expenses like housing and child care, said Bonamici, Vice Ranking Member of the House Education Committee. “Fortunately there are repayment plans based on income that can help make payments affordable and protect people from financial turmoil. Our bipartisan, commonsense SIMPLE Act will protect many people from default by making these plans easier to access and by eliminating unnecessary paperwork requirements. Importantly, this legislation will bring relief to some of the most vulnerable student loan borrowers, those whose loans have been discharged because of total and permanent disability. The SIMPLE Act is one important step toward reducing the burden of student debt that is holding back so many people in our country.” “Even before graduation, many students face substantial student loan debt that can complicate opportunities and investing in their own future,” said Costello. “This legislation is a bipartisan effort to assist students in handling their loan burden. By auto-enrolling certain borrowers into lower monthly payment plans, students can decrease their risk of missing payments and being placed into higher-cost plans.” “Paying back thousands of dollars in student loans after graduation is tough enough without having to navigate a maze of paperwork and red tape,” said Meehan. “Various repayment options and schedules can be confusing for graduates and their families, and missed deadlines or poor choices could put them at risk of inadvertent default. This legislation makes shouldering – and eventually lifting – the burden of debt easier for at-risk Americans and their families.” The SIMPLE Act allows at-risk borrowers to make more informed decisions about which repayment plans are right for them, and itautomatically connects these borrowers with income-driven repayment plans before they default. Additionally, the SIMPLE Act provides for automatic recertification of borrowers’ incomes while they are enrolled in income-driven repayment plans to prevent unexpected increases in loan payments. Finally, the SIMPLE Act automates the income-monitoring process for borrowers whose loans are discharged because of disability. Last year, more than one million borrowers defaulted on their student loans. Overall, more than eight million borrowers are in default, and many more are behind on payments. These borrowers are often vulnerable, and many would qualify for lower payments in an income-driven repayment plan. Unfortunately navigating the enrollment process for an income-driven repayment plan and continuing to submit annual documentation to qualify for affordable payments can be difficult. The SIMPLE (Streamlining Income-driven, Manageable Payments on Loans for Education) Act helps more borrowers participate in income-driven repayment plans. The SIMPLE Act is supported by The Institute for College Access and Success (TICAS); Student Veterans of America (SVA); National Consumer Law Center (NCLC), on behalf of its low-income clients; Third Way; Student Debt Crisis; American Federation of Teachers (AFT); Center for Law and Social Policy (CLASP); National Education Association (NEA); United Negro College Fund (UNCF); Pennsylvania Higher Education Assistance Agency (PHEAA); AccessLex Institute; Consumers Union; Young Invincibles; Center for Responsible Lending (CRL); Center for American Progress (CAP); American Association of University Women (AAUW); Association of Community College Trustees (ACCT); Pennsylvania Association of Student Financial Aid Administrators (PASFAA); National Association for College Admission Counseling (NACAC); The Education Trust; Higher Education Loan Coalition (HELC); Veterans Education Success (VES); Consumer Action; American Association of Community Colleges (AACC); American Legion; Service Employees International Union (SEIU); and National Association of Student Financial Aid Administrators (NASFAA). To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit http://moulton.house.gov/ or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
07.29.2017	Moulton, Wilson Introduce Hamas Human Shields Prevention Act July 29th, 2017 Moulton: “We have a moral obligation to hold Hamas accountable” Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) and Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) introduced the bipartisan Hamas Human Shields Prevention Act, legislation that would sanction Hamas for violating human rights standards by using civilians as human shields. “The use of human shields is a clear human rights violation,” said Moulton. “This bill ensures that members of Hamas who put civilians in harm’s way are sanctioned for their actions. We have a moral obligation to hold Hamas accountable and I’m proud to support this bipartisan effort.” “For too long, Hamas has taken shelter and launched offensives against Israel from civilian areas, including schools, hospitals, and mosques. Their actions have knowingly and carelessly put innocent lives at risk—in clear violation of international law. We cannot stand by while Hamas continues to perpetrate atrocities against civilians by using them as human shields. This legislation imposes direct sanctions against any terrorist who is responsible for the use of human shields by Hamas,” said Wilson. In June, the United Nations Relief and Works Agency (UNRWA) discovered Hamas tunnels under two of its schools in Gaza, demonstrating how Hamas knowingly integrates terrorist operations in civilian resources. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit http://moulton.house.gov/ or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
07.28.2017	Moulton’s National Global War on Terrorism Memorial Bill Passes in the House July 28th, 2017 Moulton: “Passage of this bill is an important first step in ensuring that the men and women who willingly gave their lives in the War on Terror are afforded a place on the National Mall” Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) and Congressman Mike Gallagher (R-WI) passed their bipartisan bill that allows for the establishment of the National Global War on Terrorism Memorial in Washington DC. The bill seeks to commemorate and honor the members of the Armed Forces that served in defense of the United States in the Global War on Terrorism. Both Moulton and Gallagher are post 9/11 Marine Corps veterans who served in Iraq. “Passage of this bill is an important first step in ensuring that the men and women who willingly gave their lives in the War on Terror are afforded a place on the National Mall where their loved ones can pay respects and honor their sacrifice. For me, like so many of my colleagues, this is personal. The tradition has been to not make memorials until after wars are completed, but that’s simply an outdated model. I urge the Senate to follow our lead and make sure this gets to the president’s desk,” said Moulton. “After today’s vote in the House, I could not be more proud to announce that we are one step closer to securing our brave warfighters’ rightful place in our nation’s capital. The Global War on Terrorism Memorial is for the over 6,800 men and women who have died fighting, those who continue fighting, and those who are still joining the fight against terrorism. I hope the Senate follows suit and the president signs this bill into law as soon as possible so that the Global War on Terrorism Memorial will one day stand alongside others as an enduring reminder of the cost of liberty,” said Gallagher. This bill exempts the Global War on Terrorism Memorial from current law which prohibits commemorations from being authorized on federal land until at least ten years after the officially designated end of a conflict. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit http://moulton.house.gov/ or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
07.27.2017	Moulton, McMorris Rodgers Introduce Modernization of Medical Records Access For Veterans Act of 2017 July 27th, 2017 Moulton: “Making it easier, not harder, for service members to receive the best healthcare in the world should be a top priority” Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) and Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) introduced the Modernization of Medical Records Access for Veterans Act of 2017. This legislation would direct the VA Secretary to carry out a pilot program establishing a secure, patient-centered, portable medical records system to allow veterans access to their own comprehensive medical records. “The men and women who have served our country deserve the same access to their own medical records that private citizens have,” said Moulton. “Making it easier, not harder, for service members to receive the best healthcare in the world should be a top priority. This bipartisan legislation helps bring veterans healthcare into the 21st Century, and I encourage my colleagues to join our effort.” “Our veterans deserve the best care imaginable,” said McMorris Rodgers. “When patients have the proper information about their medical history, they can work with their doctors to make the best decisions for themselves. These pilot programs will provide cards that veterans can bring with them to their doctors that contain all of their personal medical information. I’m proud to partner again with Rep. Seth Moulton to find bipartisan solutions to fix the problems at the VA and get our veterans the care they’ve earned. Currently, patients in the private sector have access to their own medical records and enjoy the ease of sharing those directly with their doctors and having them updated immediately. It only makes sense that veterans have that same access. This legislation will ensure that veterans and their healthcare providers have access across the VA and community providers. It will improve veteran care and satisfaction and provide the ability for medical records to be updated immediately for the veteran. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit http://moulton.house.gov/ or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
07.27.2017	Moulton, Westerman Introduce Bipartisan Geospatial Data Act July 27th, 2017 Moulton: “It is time to bring government into the 21st Century” Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) and Congressman Bruce Western (R-AR) introduced the bipartisan Geospatial Data Act. This bill would prevent duplicative data purchases by federal agencies and modernize the collection of said data. The move would save an untold amount of the American taxpayers’ money. “The Geospatial Data Act will save taxpayer dollars, increase government efficiency, and unlock innovation in the public and private sectors,” Moulton said. “It is time to bring government into the 21st Century. I am proud to be part of this bipartisan effort that embraces new and innovative ways to use and share data.” “Technology is advancing at a rapid rate. Advances in geospatial technology have revolutionized transportation, forestry, and an ever-growing list of other industries,” Westerman said. “The benefits of geospatial technology are truly untold. Our federal agencies use geospatial data, but often different agencies acquire duplicative information and waste precious taxpayer resources in the process. The Geospatial Data Act would streamline the collection of this data across the federal government. This bill will save money, improve information accuracy, and provide a more modern system for collecting geospatial data.” This legislation is supported by the National States Geographic Information Council (NSGIC), the American Council of Engineering Companies (ACEC), MAPPS, and the National Society of Professional Surveyors (NSPS). “From transportation, to natural resources, to homeland security, map-based digital information has quietly become mission critical to how work gets done and to future economic growth,” said NSGIC President Bert Granberg. “We need an efficiency and accountability framework to build, sustain, and share geographic data assets for the entire nation. The GDA delivers just that and our members appreciate Representative Westerman’s leadership.” “The American Council of Engineering Companies – the voice of the nation’s engineering industry – supports the Geospatial Data Act and thanks the sponsors for introducing this important legislation,” said ACEC President and CEO David A. Raymond. “Access to accurate geospatial data is essential for maintaining and improving the nation’s infrastructure, economic development, and emergency preparedness and response. The sharing of geospatial data across federal agencies will improve the quality of data and be more fiscally prudent by preventing the duplication of work and resources. In addition, the bill includes an important clarification of federal procurement rules to ensure that surveying and mapping services are contracted under the same qualifications-based selection standards as architects and engineers.” “MAPPS commends Representatives Westerman and Moulton for their leadership in helping better coordinate the acquisition, management and dissemination of geospatial data by the Federal government through the Geospatial Data Act (GDA),” said MAPPS President Brian Raber, CMS, GLS, GISP. “MAPPS is pleased to support this legislation which will not only improve coordination, reduce duplication, and increase data transparency in the acquisition of geospatial data, but the GDA clearly outlines the role of the private sector geospatial firms in assisting Federal agencies accomplish their goals in maximizing value, quality and competence in undertaking their geospatial activities.” “The National Society of Professional Surveyors (NSPS) is grateful for the leadership provided by Congressmen Westerman and Moulton in sponsoring this legislation which will establish the primacy of state surveying licensing law while helping to achieve efficiency in a wide variety of surveying activities underway or planned by our partners in the Federal agencies,” said NSPS Executive Director Curtis Sumner, LS. “NSPS strongly supports the Geospatial Data Act and encourages Congress to enact this important reform legislation.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit http://moulton.house.gov/ or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
07.26.2017	Moulton Statement on President Trump’s Transphobic Military Policy July 26th, 2017 Moulton: “Trump is trying to reverse civil rights, and I’m going to do whatever I can to stop him” Washington, D.C. – Today, in reaction to President Trump’s Tweets calling for transgendered individuals to be banned from serving in the military, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) issued the following statement: “This policy is wrong, morally and militarily. President Trump is making the same argument used against keeping gays and lesbians and African Americans from serving. These are Americans who are willing to put their lives on the line for our country, which is far, far more than President Trump has ever been willing to do. Trump is trying to reverse civil rights, and I’m going to do whatever I can to stop him.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ##
07.19.2017	Moulton Statement on Recertification of Iran Nuclear Deal July 19th, 2017 Moulton: “The most viable option we have to prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon” Washington, D.C. – Today, in reaction to the Iran Nuclear Deal being re-certified, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) issued the following statement: “As I have said before, the Iran Nuclear Deal is not perfect, but it is the most viable option we have to prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon. National security experts, including our own Secretary of Defense and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs, agree that that this deal should be recertified and continued.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium.
07.14.2017	Moulton Leads on Key Provisions Included in Passage of NDAA July 14th, 2017 Moulton: “The Sixth District plays a crucial role in our national defense” Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 2810, the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). This bill authorizes funding for the Department of Defense and other related agencies for Fiscal Year 2018. Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) released the following statement in support of the NDAA’s passage: “Passage of the NDAA is critical to both our national security and local economy,” said Moulton. “The Sixth District plays a crucial role in our national defense. I’m proud to champion the industries, research, and individuals in our community that allow us to advocate for a strong, smart, and strategic approach to foreign policy. I will continue to be an advocate for the great work we are doing at home that plays such a vital role in our national defense.” This bill contains important funding provisions that are beneficial to Massachusetts and the Sixth District, including: $49.7 million in funding for MIT Lincoln Labs that enables this Federally Funded Research and Development Center (FFRDC), located in the Sixth District, to continue conducting critical research on advanced technologies such as microchips, outer space, cybersecurity, and next generation communications, among others. $11.4 million for critical upgrades to the Vandenberg Gate at Hanscom Air Force Base to ensure the safety and security of base personnel while providing efficient base access. Continued funding for vital programs managed at Hanscom Air Force Base such as $12.6 million for the modernization of the nation’s Nuclear Command, Control, and Communications (NC3) system and $417 million for recapitalization of the Joint Surveillance Target Attack Radar System (JSTARS). $29.6 million for the Defense Innovation Unit – Experimental (DIUx), which, with sites in Palo Alto, Boston, and now Austin, is making important advances in getting new technologies to our warfighters in the field. In addition, Moulton led on key amendments contained in the bill that are critical to our national security and defense including: Requirement for a Syria strategy: This amendment requires a comprehensive political and military strategy for U.S. policy in Syria to be submitted by the Departments of Defense and State to Congress and the American people within 90 days of enactment. Requirement for a post-conflict strategy in Iraq: This amendment requires a periodic report from the Department of Defense on post-conflict stabilization capabilities and an assessment of how forces trained and equipped through the U.S. Office of Security Cooperation in Iraq (OSC-I) are prepared to provide post-conflict security in areas liberated from ISIL in both unclassified and classified form. Legislative charter for Spirit of America: Spirit of America is a non-profit organization that provides humanitarian and economic assistance in response to local needs identified by deployed U.S. troops and diplomats. This amendment establishes a Congressional charter that allows Spirit of America to continue doing work that will save lives of U.S. servicemembers and improve national security by enabling the Department of Defense, at its discretion, to utilize donated assistance to meet local needs in support of US missions abroad in pre-conflict and humanitarian support missions. Military Family Service Corps: This amendment provides military dependents opportunity to earn monetary educational awards for voluntary service to local military communities across the country. Afghan Special Immigrant Visa (SIV) Program: The SIV program affords Afghans such as interpreters the ability to resettle in the U.S. due to threats to their lives they and their families face on a daily basis due to their work with our armed services. Through a bipartisan effort, this program has remained alive and functioning, but the availability of visas has decreased as demand continues. This amendment requires the Department of Defense to brief the committee on the importance of the program to our forces and conducting our mission in Afghanistan as Congress considers adding new visas. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium.
07.11.2017	Moulton, Kinzinger Statement on Reclaiming Mosul July 11th, 2017 Washington, D.C. – On Sunday, the Iraqi Prime Minister arrived in Mosul to formally declare victory, announcing the city had been recaptured from the Islamic State (ISIS) control. As co-chairs of the Congressional Iraq Caucus, and as veterans who served in Iraq during their time in the military, Congressmen Seth Moulton (D-MA) and Adam Kinzinger (R-IL) issued the following joint statement: “After nearly nine months of battling against ISIS, Iraq’s armed forces have reclaimed Mosul and achieved a significant victory in the war on terror. While this is certainly great news, we have a long road ahead in stabilizing and rebuilding Mosul, and helping the millions displaced return home. “On behalf of the entire Congressional Iraq Caucus, we want to extend our congratulations and sincere gratitude to Iraq’s military, our coalition allied forces, and the Iraqi people on this triumph. This hard-fought campaign must continue as we enter the next phase in our strategy to defeat ISIS. Advising and assisting Iraqis in maintaining a secure Mosul is how we can best work together to ensure a stronger and stabilized Iraq, and prevent the re-emergence of a successor to ISIS.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium.
07.10.2017	Moulton Brings Together Local Business Leaders to Announce CHANCE in Tech Act July 10th, 2017 Moulton: “We must prepare our current and future workforce for the jobs of the 21st century” Ipswich, MA – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton announced the Championing Apprenticeships for New Careers and Employees in Technology (CHANCE in Tech) Act during a press conference at EBSCO Information Services (EBSCO). Joining Moulton were senior executives from EBSCO, members of the Mass Technology Leadership Council, and representatives from area employers. In 2016 alone, the technology sector contributed more than $1 trillion to the U.S. economy, employed more than seven million workers, and added more than 100,000 new jobs. Yet, nationally, during any given 90-day period, there can be more than 500,000 tech job openings. Businesses throughout the country agree that there simply are not enough qualified workers to fill these positions. This bipartisan bill seeks to address the growing skills gap in the technology sector through expanding and investing in tech apprenticeship programs. “Our economy is changing, and we must prepare our current and future workforce for the jobs of the 21st Century,” said Moulton. “This bill will allow industries, academic institutions, vocational and technical schools, and workforce development programs across the country to form partnerships and train Americans for the new economy. I am proud to be joining my colleagues in leading this bipartisan effort to help American workers move our economy forward.” “The U.S. is expected to have 1.8 million unfilled tech jobs by 2024. The deficit is not because of a lack of desire by American workers, but a dearth of workers with the necessary IT skills. If neglected, the IT skills gap will affect our country’s ability to protect national security interests and to compete economically on the global stage,” said Elizabeth Hyman, CompTIA’s Executive Vice President of Public Policy.“ “The CHANCE in Tech Act introduced today will address the growing IT talent challenge by encouraging public-private funding for apprenticeship programs in the technology sector and providing students with the necessary skills to compete in the 21st Century workforce.” CHANCE in Tech co-authors include Representatives Jaime Herrera Beutler (R-WA), Derek Kilmer (D-WA), and Mia Love (R-UT). Companion legislation was also introduced today in the senate by Senators Martin Heinrich (D-NM), and Cory Gardner (R-CO). “It’s critical that residents in Southwest Washington receive the skill training and education they need to fill open job positions right here. Our tech industry is strong — yet the employers I meet with are struggling to find qualified candidates,” said Congresswoman Jaime Herrera Beutler. “This bill seeks to alleviate some of the pressure employers face in hiring these skilled jobs. It also gives workers quality, on-the-job training; a very marketable skill set and hopefully a good-paying job.” “Technology jobs can provide a solid path to the middle class for folks around the country, and there are a variety of pathways into tech professions,” said Congressman Derek Kilmer. “In this rapidly changing economy, our bipartisan bill makes sure that apprenticeships equip folks with the training and know-how to fill open positions today and equip them with the skills they’ll need for the jobs of tomorrow.” “I see so many opportunities at Tech companies in Utah, and I want young people to get the skills they need to get a good paying job,” said Congresswoman Mia Love. “This is simply preparing our workers for the 21st Century economy.” “As the technology sector begins to play an even larger role in our economy, it’s important our workforce has the necessary skills and training to perform these jobs,” said Senator Cory Gardner. “The technology industry currently faces a workforce shortage and Congress must work together to address this problem. This bipartisan legislation is an innovative solution to address the workforce shortage and will result in more Coloradans and Americans across the country receiving the proper training to enter the technology industry. The next 100 years will be defined by our ability to compete in the technology sector and the CHANCE in Tech Act will help the United States remain the global leader in technological developments.” “As the technology sector continues to grow in New Mexico and across the country, we need to ensure that our students have the skills they need to compete for these high-paying jobs,” said Senator Heinrich. “By encouraging apprenticeship programs for the tech sector, we can continue to strengthen the STEM pipeline and help New Mexico develop its vibrant technology economy. This bill will connect students, training programs, and community colleges in New Mexico to the growing tech sector where jobs are opening up every day, and create a more prosperous future for our state.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
06.28.2017	Reps. Moulton & Kihuen Introduce Bill to Strengthen Iran Ballistic Missile Reporting June 28th, 2017 Moulton: Bill Extends Requirement for President to Notify Congress of Iranian Missile Tests WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Reps. Seth Moulton (MA-6),and Ruben J. Kihuen (NV-4) announced the introduction of legislation to strengthen Iranian ballistic missile H.R. 3078, which extends a presidential reporting requirement on ballistic missile launches or tests conducted by Iran until December 31, 2022. Under current law, the requirement will expire on December 31, 2019. “Last year, I authored a provision in the annual defense bill requiring the President to notify Congress of any Iranian ballistic missile tests or launches, and to conduct an intelligence assessment to determine if we should apply further sanctions due to their actions,” said Moulton. “This received bipartisan support and was included in the final bill. As this provision expires at the end of 2019, Rep. Kihuen’s bipartisan bill provides a necessary extension of this requirement at a time when the new administration has yet to release their national security strategy as required by law.” “Despite condemnation from Congress, the administration, and the U.N. Security Council, Iran has continued to expand its ballistic missile program posing a threat to our national security and that of one of our closest ally in the region, Israel,” said Kihuen. “Our legislation will help ensure a long-term strategy and aid in deterring Iran’s ballistic missile program and simply extends an existing requirement that the President notify Congress on Iranian ballistic missile launches or tests until December 2022. This effort garnered bipartisan support last year and is necessary to guarantee the United States take a strong, coordinated stance against Iran’s missile program.” In 2016, Representatives Seth Moulton (D-MA) and Joe Wilson (R-SC) introduced an amendment to the NDAA that required the President to notify Congress on Iranian ballistic missile launches or tests within two weeks of their occurrence and to conduct an intelligence assessment to determine if they were sanctionable activities. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov/ or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
06.28.2017	Moulton, Banks Introduce Bipartisan Bill to Protect Welfare and Safety of Veterans June 28th, 2017 Moulton: “Veterans deserve the best health care in the world” Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressmen Seth Moulton (D-MA) and Jim Banks (R-IN) introduced the Veterans Acquiring Community Care Expect Safe Service (ACCESS) Act. The bipartisan ACCESS Act will ensure that health care providers who have been fired or suspended from the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs cannot participate in non-VA care in the community programs, like the Choice program. Currently, there is nothing explicitly in law or VA regulation that stops fired or suspended VA providers from participating in VA-administered community care programs. “Veterans deserve the best health care in the world. This bipartisan bill will close loopholes at the VA and help ensure that we are protecting the welfare and safety of the men and women who have served,” said Moulton. “As a veteran, reforming the VA and making sure that my fellow servicemembers receive the very best care has been a top priority of mine since coming to Congress. I urge my colleagues to join in calling for changes to the system that will help protect the well-being of veterans across the country.” “Our veterans deserve the very best care we can provide them,” said Banks. “This bill would make an important change to ensure our veterans are protected from substandard care. I am glad to be working with Congressman Moulton on this important bipartisan issue.” In addition to closing loopholes, the ACCESS Act would ensure that when a provider is suspended from VA care, he or she is also suspended from non-VA care. Additionally, the bill would give the VA Secretary the discretion under certain circumstances to deny, revoke, or suspend a provider’s eligibility if the Secretary determines that such action is necessary to immediately protect the health, safety, or welfare of veterans. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov/ or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
06.27.2017	Moulton Introduces Bipartisan Bill to Protect Veterans from Scams June 27th, 2017 Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Representative Seth Moulton (MA-06) re-introduced a bill that would protect older, low-income veterans from financial scams. The bipartisan Veterans Care Financial Protection Act would direct the Department of Veteran Affairs (VA) to work with other federal agencies and states to develop and implement standards that protect veterans from predatory practices. Reps. Matt Cartwright (PA-17), Jim Renacci (OH-16), Steve Cohen (TN-09), and Ted Deutch (FL-22) were original co-sponsors of this legislation. The VA offers an Aid and Attendance (A&A) benefit for veterans who qualify for a VA pension and need financial help with in-home care or assisted living. The A&A application is free, but scam artists have targeted veterans and charged them to obtain these benefits. With this information, scammers can take ahold of the veteran’s assets, and may even move them into an irrevocable trust or an annuity. This movement of assets may also disqualify the veteran from other assistance, such as Medicaid. “I am proud to support this bipartisan effort to protect veterans who receive VA funded assistance from becoming the victims of financial scams. Our veterans deserve the best health care in the world and should be protected from financial predators,” said Moulton. “These scams are completely unacceptable and appalling,” said Cartwright. “There needs to be greater protections for our nation’s heroes. This bill will put a stop to these predatory financial scams, and help ensure veterans receive their hard-earned benefits.” U.S. Senators Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) and Marco Rubio (R-FL) introduced companion legislation in the Senate. “The Aid and Attendance program is a critical lifeline for the thousands of older veterans who just need a helping hand for basic daily activities,” said Warren. “Unfortunately, the program is being undermined by scams, putting our veterans at even greater financial risk and wasting taxpayer dollars. This legislation will help put a stop to these financial scams and ensure that we honor our commitments to our veterans.”
06.26.2017	Moulton, 22 Armed Services Democrats Introduce Bill to Boost Unity and Deterrence Against Russian Aggression June 26th, 2017 Moulton: “Congress cannot stand idly by while President Trump fails to respond to a grave threat to our democracy” Washington, D.C. – Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA), House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith (D-WA), and 21 other original co-sponsors have introduced the Fostering Unity Against Russian Aggression Act of 2017. The act would lay the groundwork for a response to the deliberate campaign led by Russia to undermine democracies around the world and weaken U.S. alliances and partnerships. This would include requiring the Secretary of Defense to develop a comprehensive strategy to counter Russia. “Russia has conducted an aggressive campaign to undermine not only our democracy, but democracies in Western Europe. I am proud to support Ranking Member Smith’s bill that addresses these attacks with an effective strategy – something the administration has failed to do. Congress cannot stand idly by while President Trump fails to respond to a grave threat to our democracy,” said Rep. Moulton. “I am pleased to work with Congressman Moulton on this bill to forcefully and responsibly counter Russian aggression, its violation of arms treaties, and its campaign to erode democratic values worldwide,” said Rep. Smith. “It is time for Congress to lead on this issue, especially given President Trump’s unwillingness take the danger seriously. This bill adopts an intelligent and proactive approach to strengthening allied and partner defenses, increasing deterrence, and boosting our cohesion while requiring measures to reduce the risk of miscalculation and accidental nuclear war.” The bill’s original co-sponsors are Rep. Seth Moulton (D-MA), Ranking Member Adam Smith (D-WA), Rep. Bob Brady (D-PA), Rep. Susan Davis (D-CA), Rep. Jim Langevin (D-RI), Rep. Jim Cooper (D-TN), Rep. Madeleine Bordallo (D-GU), Rep. Joe Courtney (D-CT), Rep. Niki Tsongas (D-MA), Rep. John Garamendi (D-CA), Rep. Jackie Speier (D-CA), Rep. Marc Veasey (D-TX), Rep. Donald Norcross (D-NJ), Rep. Ruben Gallego (D-AZ), Rep. Colleen Hanabusa (D-HI), Rep. Carol Shea-Porter (D-NH), Jep. Jacky Rosen (D-NV), Rep. Donald McEachin (D-VA), Rep. Salud Carbajal (D-CA), Rep. Anthony Brown (D-MD), Rep. Stephanie Murphy (D-FL), Rep. Tom O’Halleran (D-AZ), and Rep. Thomas Suozzi (D-NY). To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
06.26.2017	Reps. Moulton, Murphy, and Panetta Urge President to Release Overdue National Security Strategy June 26th, 2017 Moulton, Murphy, and Panetta serve as co-chairs of Democratic Caucus National Security Task Force Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representatives Seth Moulton (D-MA), Stephanie Murphy (D-FL), and Jimmy Panetta (D-CA), the co-chairs of the recently-formed Democratic Caucus National Security Task Force, this week sent a letter to President Donald Trump urging his administration to submit the overdue, congressionally-mandated national security strategy. The letter was signed by 57 Members of Congress. Under federal statute, within 150 days of taking office, a new president must provide Congress—and, by extension, the American public—with a report that sets forth “the national security strategy of the United States.” That deadline passed on June 19, 2017. “We need a strong, smart, strategic approach to foreign policy that provides clear goals,” said Moulton. “Currently, Democrats and Republicans alike are saying that this administration has no national security strategy. It’s because they literally don’t. This letter demands that the administration follow the law and provide Congress and the American people with a national security strategy. We can’t have a strong American foreign policy without a plan.” “Given the rapidly-changing threats to our nation, this administration must demonstrate it has a comprehensive strategy to protect the homeland and our nation’s interests abroad,” said Murphy. “A national security strategy provides a blueprint for meeting our national security challenges. Without this document, we’re essentially flying blind with no sense of priorities. I urge President Trump to submit his national security strategy as soon as possible so that we can work together more effectively in keeping America safe.” “Without a National Security Strategy, our country’s credibility and accountability, both at home and abroad, is threatened,” said Panetta. “This administration is faltering on its obligation to provide clear and concise military objectives and guidance for our service members. The administration must set forth its strategy immediately.” The full text of the letter is below: June 26, 2017 The Honorable Donald J. Trump The President The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President, Pursuant to 50 U.S.C. § 3043, within 150 days of taking office, a new President must provide Congress—and, by extension, the American public—with a report that sets forth “the national security strategy of the United States.” That deadline passed on June 19th. We write to urge you to transmit this National Security Strategy without undue delay. As envisioned by Congress, the National Security Strategy is intended to be a practical document that guides the real-world conduct of our military planners, intelligence officials, homeland security professionals, diplomats, and aid workers. To craft the National Security Strategy, a new presidential administration must identify our national security objectives with precision, prioritize those objectives, and then present a realistic, whole-of-government plan to achieve those objectives with the resources available. A good National Security Strategy will explain both the broad principles that underlie the administration’s approach to foreign policy and the specific steps that the administration intends to take to address discrete threats. In light of the complex web of challenges that the United States confronts, the need for your administration to swiftly prepare and submit a National Security Strategy is acute. We are particularly interested in the administration’s strategy to deter and denuclearize North Korea; to defeat ISIL and its affiliates on the field of battle and in the realm of ideas; to stabilize Syria and Iraq; to ensure that Iran complies with its nuclear-related obligations under the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action and reduces its support for terrorist organizations; to counter Russian aggression pursued through both military and non-military means; to turn the tide in Afghanistan; and to address emerging national security threats, such as cyberwarfare and climate change. The United States must utilize all elements of its national power in support of security policies that are strategic, strong, and smart, fully leveraging the expertise of all our national security agencies, from the Department of Defense to the Department of State and USAID. We are growing increasingly concerned that you have yet to delineate a strategy to guide foreign policy decision-making and have yet to nominate or achieve confirmation of individuals for key national security positions who are needed to develop and execute that strategy. We look forward to receiving the congressionally-mandated National Security Strategy as soon as possible. Sincerely, Seth Moulton • Stephanie Murphy • Jimmy Panetta Member of Congress • Member of Congress • Member of Congress The Democratic Caucus National Security Task Force was established in June 2017 by the House Democratic Caucus to support the creation, execution, and public messaging of national security policies that are smart, strategic, and strong. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov/ or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
06.23.2017	Moulton, Markey, Massachusetts Delegation Introduce Congressional Resolution Honoring David Ortiz of the Boston Red Sox June 23rd, 2017 Boston Red Sox to retire Ortiz’s number 34 at Fenway Park Washington, D.C. – Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA), Senator Edward J. Markey (D-MA), along with Senator Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) and Reps. Richard Neal (D-MA), James P. McGovern (D-MA), Michael E. Capuano (D-MA), Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA), Niki Tsongas (D-MA), William Keating (D-MA), Katherine Clark (D-MA), and Joseph P. Kennedy III (D-MA) introduced a resolution in the U.S. Senate and House of Representatives honoring David Ortiz for his phenomenal career and his historic contributions to the sport of baseball, the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, and Red Sox Nation. The Boston Red Sox will retire Ortiz’s number today at Fenway Park in Boston. “David Ortiz is a New England legend,” said Congressman Moulton. “I’m proud to join my colleagues in honoring Big Papi as his number is retired. He has made great contributions to our community with his talent, service to others, and magnetic personality. Thanks for all you’ve done and continue to do for us, Big Papi!” “David Ortiz’s life and career on and off the baseball diamond embody the American dream,” said Senator Markey. “David Ortiz helped reverse the curse, lift our collective spirits, and gave the people of Massachusetts hope when we needed it most. He wore the now legendary number 34 and will always be number one in the hearts of Red Sox fans everywhere.” “David Ortiz has grit and he has heart,” said Senator Warren. “He brought three World Series trophies home to Boston, rallied our city to be ‘Boston Strong,’ and cares deeply for Red Sox Nation. Today, Boston says ‘Thank you, Big Papi!’ ” “A grateful Red Sox nation will celebrate the career of David Ortiz tonight when his iconic number 34 is retired at Fenway Park,” said Congressman Neal. “Big Papi brought the World Series home to New England a remarkable three times during his time in Boston. We pay tribute to his accomplishments and look forward to his induction in the Baseball Hall of Fame.” “In Massachusetts and across New England, David Ortiz will always be loved and remembered for ending the curse and bringing the World Series trophy back to Fenway where it belongs,” said Congressman McGovern. “David Ortiz lifted our spirits and embodies all that is great about Massachusetts. A true hall of famer.” “Once in a while, you come across an individual who is truly larger than life,” said Congressman Capuano. “David Ortiz is such a person. From his numerous epic and timely home runs to his philanthropic and community commitments, David Ortiz will always hold a special place in our community.” “David Ortiz is a beloved member of Red Sox Nation,” said Congressman Lynch. “His love for the Boston Red Sox, the City of Boston, and the Commonwealth of Massachusetts was evident each time he stepped up to the plate. From his dedication to the local community, inspiring us all in the wake of the Boston Marathon Bombings and continually giving back with his David Ortiz Children’s Fund, to his countless, game-changing hits that brought the Red Sox multiple Word Series wins, I am so proud that Big Papi’s name will be forever emblazoned on the streets of Boston as he continues to inspire countless young people both in Massachusetts as well as in the Dominican Republic. Before we proudly retire his number today at Fenway, I want him to know that we are happy to delay this if he wants to come back for one more year.” “David Ortiz will always be Boston’s greatest clutch performer both on and off the field,” said Congressman Keating. “Congratulations to Big Papi for having his #34 retired by the Red Sox,” said Congresswoman Tsongas. “A well-deserved honor for someone who has given so much to the people of Boston and New England. While he may be retired, he’ll always be a Red Sox – 34ever.” “In addition to being one of the greatest players to ever wear a Red Sox uniform, David Ortiz became the heart and soul of Red Sox Nation,” said Congresswoman Clark. “He taught us that no matter how long the odds, the scrappy underdogs can achieve the impossible, and that if we stand together as a team, we are always Boston Strong.” “Even in a state with no shortage of sports legends, David Ortiz looms larger than life,” said Congressman Kennedy. “However, I remain reluctant to sign onto this resolution because I just can’t accept that he won’t put the uniform back on next month.” Other New England senators co-sponsoring the legislation include Senators Angus King (I-Maine), Jack Reed (D-R.I.), Jeanne Shaheen (D-N.H.), Maggie Hassan (D-N.H.), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.), and Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.). Other New England representatives co-sponsoring the resolution include Representative Rosa DeLauro (CT-03), Chellie Pingree (ME-01), John Larson CT-01), Carol Shea Porter (NH-01), Bruce Poliquin (ME-02), Jim Langevin (RI-02), and Peter Welch (VT-01). To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
06.20.2017	Moulton, Norcross, and Walz Introduce Legislation to Boost College Completion June 20th, 2017 Moulton: “This bill will help provide our children the opportunity to be successful in the modern economy” Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressmen Seth Moulton (D-MA), Donald Norcross (D-NJ), and Tim Walz (D-MN) introduced the Remedial Education Improvement Act, a bill that will help ensure that students complete their higher education in a timely and affordable manner. “Far too many students are taking on the economic burden of attending college without the skills necessary to complete their degrees,” said Moulton. “This bill will help provide our students with the opportunity to be successful in the modern economy by eliminating barriers that stand in the way of a good education.” Our nation’s current system of remediation in higher education is failing working families due to the increasing cost of college. Further, it is leaving students steeped in debt, and without a meaningful degree. The Remedial Education Improvement Act would provide competitive grants to colleges and universities to develop or improve remedial education programs through the implementation of evidence-based models that have already led to improved academic outcomes for remedial students. It is part of House Democrats’ legislative campaign, Aim Higher, policy solutions to make higher education work for all students and their families. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
06.15.2017	Reps. Moulton, Russell Issue Joint Statement in Response to Virginia Shooting June 15th, 2017 The Congressional Warrior Caucus remains committed – now more than ever – to rising above partisan politics and division to improve our great republic Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressmen Seth Moulton (D-MA) and Steve Russell (R-OK) issued a joint statement in response to the June 14 shooting at the Republican congressional baseball practice in Alexandria, VA. Russell and Moulton serve as chairmen of the Congressional Warrior Caucus, a bipartisan group of combat veterans and warriors committed to rising above partisan politics to address national security issues. Their joint statement: “As former combat veterans, we understand the trauma our colleagues are going through and our thoughts and prayers are with them, their staff, families, and all those impacted by yesterday’s tragic event. Our nation was founded under the principle of e pluribus unum—out of many, one. Whether it is playing baseball together as one Congress, or eagerly working to share and debate our ideas, we must use a level of civility that should serve as an example for the nation, united in purpose to serve the American people. The Congressional Warrior Caucus remains committed – now more than ever – to rising above partisan politics and division to improve our great republic.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
06.13.2017	Moulton, House Democrats Launch National Security Task Force June 13th, 2017 Inaugural Meeting to Include Discussion with Former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright Washington, D.C. – Today, House Democratic Caucus Chairman Joe Crowley (D-NY) announced the launch of the Democratic Caucus National Security Task Force to advance smart, strategic, and strong national security policies focused on protecting the United States, the American people, and our interests abroad. Chaired by Reps. Seth Moulton (D-MA.), Stephanie Murphy (D-FL.), and Jimmy Panetta (D-CA.), the task force will, through substantive policy discussions, provide a forum for members to identify solutions to our most pressing security challenges and communicate these solutions to the American people in a clear and compelling way. The task force will also take concrete actions to bolster Democratic positioning on national security and hold the Trump administration accountable. The co-chairs bring to the task force a wealth of military and defense experiences. Congressmen Moulton and Panetta are both veterans and Congresswoman Murphy worked within the U.S. Department of Defense. “Democrats need a strong, smart, and strategic approach to national security. This task force will hold the administration accountable in a thoughtful and impactful way, while working to find the best solutions to the national security issues facing our country,” said Congressman Moulton. “I am glad to be joined by colleagues who recognize the crucial importance of having strong and clear national security messaging and policy.” “I am excited to announce the creation of this task force, which will be led by three members who bring a unique voice to national security – an issue critically important to all House Democrats,” said Chairman Crowley. “I applaud the leadership of Reps. Moulton, Murphy, and Panetta, and look forward to working closely with them as the task force explores new ways and opportunities to address our most pressing national security needs.” “I am honored to serve as a co-chair of the National Security Task Force,” said Congresswoman Murphy. “The United States faces a wide range of threats, whether from terrorist groups like ISIS or nations like North Korea. It has never been more important to develop and implement national security policies that are smart, strategic, and strong. As a former national security specialist at the Department of Defense and as a current member of the House Armed Services Committee, I look forward to leading constructive dialogue on this issue and getting results.” “When I served in Afghanistan, I relied on our government’s strategic national security policies and intelligence resources to ensure my fellow service members’ safety and the success of our missions,” said Congressman Panetta. “Now as a member of Congress, it is my priority to safeguard our national security interests, uphold our American values, and thoughtfully manage our obligations abroad. This task force will strengthen and amplify Democrats’ voice as we work to identify solutions.” The task force will hold its inaugural meeting on June 21, where members will have the opportunity to discuss national security solutions with former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright. The task force will continue to host high-level discussions, engage with the press, and advance strategic solutions to security concerns. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
06.08.2017	Moulton Returns from House Congressional Delegation to Southeast Asia June 8th, 2017 VIEW: Picture diary of Moulton’s trip WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) returned from South Korea, Vietnam, and Japan where he was part of a small, bipartisan Congressional delegation from the U.S. House Armed Services Committee. Moulton and the group met with U.S. troops serving in the region, held talks with government officials to discuss the partnership between the United States and our Asian allies, and reviewed the security threats posed by North Korea. “This trip was an important opportunity to learn more about our allies in Asia and the threats posed by the North Korean regime. It was also an important opportunity to remind our allies that President Trump does not represent the entirety of the United States government. “Throughout our trip, we were met with anxiety from the world community about America. The most repeated phrase from our bipartisan Congressional delegation in response to that anxiety was that Congress is a separate, co-equal branch of government. “I will use what I learned to work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to strengthen our foreign policy, and continue to be outspoken about the challenges posed by our new president,” said Moulton. During the delegation, Senator John McCain (R-AZ) joined members to lead a tour of the Hoa Lo Prison and discuss U.S.-Vietnamese relations. The delegation also participated in a tour of the DMZ, met with members of the Japanese government, and participated in an International Institute of Strategic Studies (IISS) dialogue in Shangri-La. Members of the delegation joining Congressman Moulton included Chairman Mac Thornberry (R-TX), Rep. Madeleine Bordallo (D-Guam), Rep. Bradley Byrne (R-AL), Rep Austin Scott (R-GA), Rep. Stephanie Murphy (D-FL), Rep. Salud Carbajal (D-CA), and Rep. Mike Gallagher (R-WI). Photos of Moulton on the delegation can be found here: CODEL to Southeast Asia, May 2017 To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
06.08.2017	Moulton Statement on Passage of CHOICE Act June 8th, 2017 Moulton: This is yet another example of politicians looking out for the big banks instead of the middle class. Washington, D.C. – Following the passage of the Financial CHOICE Act, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) released the following statement: “Prior to Dodd-Frank, reckless spending and corporate greed took our nation to the brink of financial ruin. Now, some of my colleagues would rather dismantle the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau than have conversations about protecting working families from financial abuse. This is yet another example of politicians looking out for the big banks instead of the middle class. I will always vote against any proposal that puts corporate interest above financial protections for Americans.” The CHOICE Act guts Dodd-Frank and rolls back nearly all of the stability, accountability, and transparency reforms to our financial system that were put in place following the 2008 financial crisis. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
06.02.2017	Moulton, LEAD Team Announce $300,000 in Brownfields Grants June 2nd, 2017 Grants will fund critical assessment and remediation, as well as spur economic development in the city Salem, MA – Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA), along with the Lynn Economic Advancement and Development (LEAD) team, a cross-governmental working group that will promote community revitalization in the city of Lynn, announced today that the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has awarded two Brownfields grants, totaling $300,000, to the City of Lynn for critical cleanup efforts. The EPA awarded the Economic Development and Industrial Corporation of Lynn two Brownfields assessment grants, including: A $200,000 grant to assess the prevalence of hazard substances on six sites across Lynn, and prepare a cleanup plan. A $100,000 remediation grant to clean up 870 Western Avenue, a former gas station and automotive service facility site. Its soil and groundwater are contaminated with petroleum hydrocarbons. The grant will also be used for community outreach activities and redevelopment planning. “This grant is yet another testament to the strength of the LEAD team,” said Congressman Seth Moulton. “These sites, saddled by years of oil and chemical contamination, are an albatross around the neck of Lynn, and pose a serious threat to the city’s environmental and economic health. Brownfields funds help transform dirty, dormant properties into new businesses and homes, stimulating much needed jobs and tax revenue for Lynn. I look forward to continued partnership with the LEAD team as we continue to invest in our community and our future.” “The awards from the EPA are a direct result of the continued collaboration between local, state and federal officials, as part of the LEAD team initiative. These grants are the first step which will ultimately lead to the redevelopment of these sites and the continued revitalization of the city,” said Secretary Jay Ash. “Thank you to Congressman Moulton for leading the efforts to secure funding to assess and clean up the contaminated brownfield sites allows these properties to be ready for redevelopment,” said Senator Thomas M. McGee. “It is a critically important step that the needs of these sites be addressed in order for anticipated plans and initiatives, which are expected to attract private investment, increase residential development, expand the diversity of the housing stock, create jobs, and generate tax revenues, to move forward.” “EDIC was pleased to work in conjunction with Congressman Seth Moulton in applying for these two EPA grants. These grants will enable us to cleanup one site that was a former gas station and also identify other contaminated sites for future clean up projects. We are very appreciative to receive these critical grants,” said James Cowdell, Executive Director EDIC. Members of the LEAD team include Governor Charlie Baker, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA), Massachusetts Secretary of Housing and Economic Development Jay Ash, Massachusetts Secretary of Energy and Environmental Affairs Matthew Beaton, Massachusetts Secretary of Transportation Stephanie Pollack, Lynn Mayor Judy Flanagan Kennedy, Massachusetts State Senator Thomas M. McGee, and Massachusetts State Representatives Daniel Cahill, Brendan Crighton, Lori Ehrlich, and Donald Wong. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
06.01.2017	Moulton, Kuster, Polis, Announce Introduction of Legislation to Improve Workforce Development Programs June 1st, 2017 Moulton: “It’s time to restore economic security, opportunity, and the American Dream” Washington, D.C.— Representatives Seth Moulton (D-MA), Annie Kuster (D-NH), and Jared Polis (D-CO) announce the introduction of their legislation the Workforce Development Investment Act. The legislation would create tax incentives to encourage companies and educators to partner in training programs to help workers gain the skills needed for careers in the 21st Century economy. Specifically, the bill would create a credit to encourage employers to partner with community colleges and career and technical training schools to develop workforce training programs for skills that are in demand within their community or region. It would also create a separate credit for the cost of direct training conducted as part of an educational partnership or licensed apprenticeship program. “The American Dream is slipping away. Hardworking American families are suffering because we’re preparing our workforce for yesterday’s economy, instead of tomorrow’s. It’s time to restore economic security, opportunity, and the American Dream. And that starts by providing educators and companies the resources they need to train workers of the future,” said Representative Moulton. “Companies know what they’re looking for in employees and if we can help them train workers in the skills they need it’s a win-win for all involved,” said Representative Kuster. “This bill expands job training and makes it easier for community colleges to partner with employers to make sure we are training students in the skills they need for the 21st Century economy.” “We need to create avenues in the education system that meet the real needs of the 21st century workforce. A practical step to get this done is to provide a pathway for Americans to acquire the new skills they need for the good-paying jobs they want,” Representative Polis said. “There are businesses out there that are ready and willing to hire the right person for the job, and it’s our responsibility to make sure our workforce is able to access this type of valuable training.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
05.29.2017	Moulton Commemorates Memorial Day May 29th, 2017 “The veterans and heroes that we remember today put serving their country – their countrymen, and our future – before themselves” Washington, D.C.— Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) released the following statement to commemorate Memorial Day: “Memorial Day is about honoring the brave men and women who made the ultimate sacrifice for our freedom. I believe the best way to honor our fallen heroes is to learn from them. “In Iraq I served with some of the best Americans I will ever meet. Men and women who selflessly put their lives on the line for a better Iraq and safer America. All gave some and some gave all. “As I travel through Southeast Asia – specifically Vietnam and Korea – I can’t help but reflect on the brave men and women who sacrificed everything here on behalf of our freedom. And we would be remiss if we did not pause to acknowledge the men and women we have lost in our current conflicts abroad. We have lost over 6,700 American troops in Iraq and Afghanistan, including over 130 from here in Massachusetts. Today we thank them for their service to our country; we remember the lives they lived by sharing their stories; and, we miss them “The veterans and heroes that we remember today put serving their country – their countrymen, and our future – before themselves. They gave that last full measure of devotion so that we could have the rights and freedoms that we enjoy today. “Each Memorial Day I am reminded of my favorite quote which is inscribed at the top of the wall of the WWI memorial at Memorial Church, where I spent many hours during my time at college. It reads: ‘While a bright future beckoned they freely gave their lives and fondest hopes for us and our allies that we might learn from them courage in peace to spend our lives making a better world for others’ “Today and over this Memorial Day weekend, let’s honor those lost. Let’s share those stories and the lessons we’ve learned from them, but let’s also follow in their footsteps by committing to make our country and our world better for the next generation.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
05.26.2017	Moulton Introduces ‘Veteran Overmedication Prevention Act of 2017’ May 26th, 2017 “Our Veterans Deserve the Best Health Care in the World – Period” Washington, D.C.— Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) and Congressman Mike Coffman (R-CO) were joined by their colleagues, Rep. Beto O’Rourke (D-TX), Rep. Jack Bergman (R-MI), Rep. Jared Polis (D-CO) and Rep. Mike Bost (R-IL), for the bipartisan introduction of H.R. 2652, the ‘Veteran Overmedication Prevention Act of 2017’. The legislation is intended to prevent the overmedication of veterans and combat suicide deaths through the use of comprehensive data. The bill mirrors legislation S.992 in the Senate, sponsored by Sen. John McCain (R-AZ). H.R. 2652 would direct the VA Secretary to enter into an agreement with the National Academies of Science, Engineering, and Medicine to conduct a full and through independent review of veterans’ deaths within the last 5 years whose cause was related to a drug overdose or suicide. Upon introduction of the bill, the Representatives offered the following remarks: Rep. Seth Moulton (D-MA) said “Our veterans deserve the best health care in the world – period. This bill will help us tackle the overmedication of veterans and help prevent veteran suicides. Opioid addiction is something that affects many communities, and unfortunately the veteran community is impacted in disproportionate ways. I am proud to lead on this bipartisan effort to help get those who served our country what they earned and what they deserve.” “Today an average of 20 veterans die every day from suicide, this is unacceptable” said U.S. Rep. Coffman (R-CO), “This bill will enable us to better identify the links between prescription drugs overdoses and veterans’ suicide. The VA’s drug-centric culture is not only something we are looking to change, but also we seek to better understand this growing epidemic of opioid use. Our goal is to ultimately avoid veterans’ and their families’ unnecessary suffering.” “I thank Representatives Coffman and Moulton for introducing this bipartisan companion legislation in the House of Representatives to address the scandal of veterans’ suicide, which claims the lives of 20 veterans each day,” said Senator McCain (R-AZ) “Combatting this epidemic will require the best research and understanding about the key causes of veteran suicide, including whether overmedication of drugs, such as opioid painkillers, is a contributing factor in suicide-related deaths. We have a long way to go to eradicate veteran suicide, but our legislation is step in the right direction.” “Veterans are at risk for both accidental narcotic overdoses and suicide. This bill will help us better understand the relationship between these two epidemics and will ensure that we save more lives.” added Rep. Beto O’Rourke (D-TX) Rep. Jack Bergman (R-MI) added “According to the national average, more than 20 Veterans die by suicide each day. We can prevent suicide from claiming more Veteran lives, but in order to do that, we have to get at the root causes. That’s why it’s so important for us to understand whether and how overmedication is a contributing factor in suicide-related deaths. This legislation would require a case-by-case review of Veteran deaths during the last five years to eliminate harmful practices. This is about identifying what isn’t working for Veterans and helping doctors develop and implement safe, effective treatment plans that will work for Veterans. We have to find a way to keep suicide from claiming more Veteran lives, and this legislation is a great start.” “I’ve long believed that we owe our nation’s heroes alternatives for pain management and Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder treatment other than narcotic and opioid pain medications. This study is a step in a positive direction toward heading off the tragic epidemic of veterans’ suicide by understanding how traditional systems of treatment may be undermining some veterans’ ability to pursue healthy, happy lives,” Rep. Polis (D-CO) said. “It is truly a national tragedy that 20 veterans die every day due to suicide,” said Rep. Bost (R-IL) “There are obviously a number of contributing factors, including overmedication, but we need more data in order to address this epidemic as effectively as possible. There is still much to do in order to eradicate veteran suicide and Representative Coffman’s bill is an important step in ensuring that doctors develop safe and effective treatment plans for their veteran patients.” The ‘Veteran Overmedication Prevention Act’ review would include: Total number of veterans who have died by suicide, violent death and accidental death; Comprehensive lists of prescribed medications and legal or illegal substances as annotated on toxicology reports; Summary of VA diagnosis that led to prescribing of medications in cases of PTSD, TBI, MST or other anxiety/depressive disorders; Number of instances in which a veteran was concurrently on multiple medications; VA practice guidelines governing medication prescriptions; Description of VA efforts to maintain appropriate staffing levels for mental health professionals; and Identification of VAMC’s with high prescription rates and suicide rates for veterans receiving treatment To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
05.26.2017	Moulton, Warren, Markey Announce $30,000 Grant for Saugus Fire Department May 26th, 2017 Moulton: “Our Firefighters Play an Integral Role in Keeping Our Communities Safe” Washington, D.C. – Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA), United States Senator Elizabeth Warren, and United States Senator Edward Markey announced today that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has awarded nine fire departments in Massachusetts over $1.25 million in round six of the 2016 Assistance to Firefighters Grants. These grants are awarded to fire departments in order to provide critical resources needed to train and equip emergency personnel to meet official standards, increase efficiency and interoperability, and help make departments and the communities they serve more resilient. The FEMA Assistance to Firefighters Grants awarded today to Massachusetts fire departments include: • $30,000 grant to the Saugus Fire Department for three thermal imaging cameras “Our firefighters play an integral role in keeping our communities safe,” Congressman Seth Moulton said. “They deserve top-quality equipment to do their jobs, and this federal grant will enable the Saugus Fire Department to upgrade its thermal imaging cameras so they can quickly and safely fight fires and save lives. I’m grateful to FEMA for recognizing the need to invest in our local fire departments.” “Massachusetts firefighters put their lives on the line every day to keep our families safe, and they should have the best resources available to safely and effectively protect our communities,” Senator Elizabeth Warren said. “Firefighters deserve our support, and this federal funding will help provide training and tools our fire departments need to do their jobs.” “Our firefighters are committed to ensuring the safety and security of our cities and towns, and these new grants will strengthen their ability to do so. Our first responder heroes deserve the best equipment and resources available to them so they can continue to assist Massachusetts residents in their time of need,” said Senator Edward J. Markey. “I commend the fire chiefs and local leaders who worked and partnered to obtain these lifesaving federal funds.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
05.26.2017	Moulton, Curbelo Introduce Act to Fund Flood Mitigation Efforts May 26th, 2017 Washington, D.C. – Today, Representatives Seth Moulton (MA) and Carlos Curbelo (FL) announced introduction of the bipartisan Flood Protection Act, legislation that would establish a cost-share program for infrastructure projects that divert, remove, or store flood waters. It would also authorize funding to assist communities with enhancement of natural barriers, modernization and maintenance of current infrastructure, such as levees, elevated roads, and floodwalls to protect our waterfront communities. “I am proud to be part of this bipartisan effort to amend the Coastal Zone Management Act,” said Moulton. “This bill will help communities impacted by frequent and chronic coastal flooding like several in my district. Protecting critical infrastructure and the environment is essential to ensuring the economic growth of our coastal cities and towns, which provide vital and unique contributions to the modern economy.” “According to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, sea levels along South Florida are expected to rise about 15 inches above current levels by 2045. Just a one-foot increase in sea level is estimated to threaten up to $6.4 billion in taxable real estate in Miami-Dade County,” Curbelo said. “Mitigation planning is the foundation for saving lives, protecting residential and commercial properties, keeping flood insurance rates manageable, and developing disaster resistant communities, and this bill would help these coastal communities to do just that.” ‎ To aid states and local communities to pay for their share of costs, they will be allowed to apply jointly with neighboring communities and accept private contributions to help offset costs. The program would authorize $3 billion each year, for seven years and recipients would have to report on the progress of their projects annually. A PDF of the bill is available here. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
05.26.2017	Reps Moulton, Wilson, Hartzler, and Meeks Introduce Bipartisan Resolution Condemning Human Rights Violations in Hungary May 26th, 2017 Moulton: “Urges Hungary’s Leadership to Reverse Laws and Policies that Curtail Individual Rights and Basic Freedoms” Washington, D.C.— Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) has been joined by Rep. Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY), Rep. Joe Wilson (R-SC), and Rep. Vicky Hartzler (R-MO) to introduce a bill to support a democratic Hungary and reaffirm the long-standing and mutually-beneficial relationship between the United States and Hungary. This resolution condemns Prime Minister Orban’s attempts to stifle any opposition to his rule and consolidate his power in Hungary – an important ally and NATO member. Prime Minister Orban’s attempts to stifle opposition have included suppressing free speech and assembly, as well as independent thought from universities, civil society groups, and independent think tanks. Law changes and Prime Minister Orban’s remarks have been condemned by the European Union and a number of international organizations including the International Federation for Human Rights, the European Association for the Defense of Human Rights, Amnesty International, Reporters without Borders, and Human Rights Watch. “I am proud to have bipartisan support for this resolution,” said Congressman Moulton. “As a member of NATO and important ally, I am concerned about the continued trend towards undemocratic practices in Hungary. I am proud to count 1,500,000 Hungarian-Americans as strong contributors to the economic vibrancy of the US, as well as the social, cultural, and political fabric of our country. This resolution condemns Hungary’s current movement to a less free and democratic society, and urges Hungary’s leadership to reverse laws and policies that curtail individual rights and basic freedoms.” “As Ranking Member of the House Subcommittee on Europe, Eurasia, and Emerging Threats and Co-Chair of the EU Caucus, I am dedicated to the U.S.-Hungary relationship and working to address mutual challenges faced by our democracies,” said Congressman Meeks. “This resolution reflects our commitment to encouraging Hungary to remain committed to the democratic standards of the transatlantic project. I look forward to further engagement on these issues.” “Hungary has had a strong history of living their democratic values. Recognition of America’s affection for Hungary is the bust of Hungarian patriot Lajos Kossuth, erected in the U.S. Capitol Building, along with Americans always remembering the bravery of Hungarians in the 1956 Revolution beginning the ultimate collapse of the Soviet Empire,” added Congressman Wilson. “It is increasingly disheartening and concerning that Hungary is progressing to a rigid, authoritarian society—one that restricts individual rights and freedoms cherished by all democratic nations. I am grateful to join my colleagues Congressman Seth Moulton, Congresswoman Vicky Hartzler, and Congressman Gregory Meeks in condemning the government of Hungary’s progression to a less free society and standing up for democracy in Eastern Europe and around the world.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
05.24.2017	Moulton Statement on Latest AHCA CBO Score May 24th, 2017 “Disastrous for Our Economy” Washington, D.C. – In response to the latest CBO Score of the AHCA, which estimates that the number of people who are uninsured would increase by 23 million by 2026 compared to the current law, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) released the following statement: “The latest CBO score proves what we already knew to be true – jamming through a bill that shifts the tax burden to hardworking Americans in the middle class is disastrous for our economy. I’ve always said the Affordable Care Act isn’t perfect and that we should improve it in a bipartisan way, just as we did in Massachusetts. But Republicans have not even tried, and now we have a nonpartisan report to prove that their Trumpcare bill will mean financial ruin for millions of American families and for our economy as well. I urge both Democrats and Republicans in the Senate to reject this bill, and call on my colleagues to work on improving health care, not taking it away from millions of hardworking Americans.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
05.23.2017	Moulton Response to Trump Budget Proposal May 23rd, 2017 “A Slap in the Face to Working Families Everywhere” Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA), a member of the House Budget Committee, released the following statement in response to President Trump’s proposed budget: “President Trump’s budget is a slap in the face to working families everywhere and a complete rejection of our core American values. Nothing in this budget begins to solve America’s problems. We need policies that help grow the economy to create good-paying jobs and ensure that all Americans have the opportunity to thrive in the new economy. “Instead of making it harder to access quality education, we should be investing in our children’s future. Instead of putting our troops in further danger by slashing diplomacy, we should be focused on an actual military strategy. And, instead of turning our back on the middle class, we should be ensuring that the programs they depend on are still available to provide a pathway to opportunity. “It’s time for Democrats and Republicans to come together to confront our nation’s challenges.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
05.21.2017	Moulton Delivers Commencement Remarks at Framingham State University May 21st, 2017 “To Seize Opportunities, You Must Take Risks and You May Fail” Washington, D.C. – On Sunday, May 21, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) was the commencement speaker at Framingham State University’s masters’ program graduation, where he was awarded an honorary doctorate of public service. In his remarks, Congressman Moulton called on students to seize opportunities, reminding them that, “to seize those opportunities, you’re going to have to be willing to take some risks. You’re going to have to be prepared to fail.” His full remarks as delivered can be found below. Remarks as Delivered: Thank you very much. Good morning. Thank you to the faculty, the staff, the Board of Trustees, and President Cevallos. Thank you to the students, families and friends, for allowing me to share this exciting day with you. And, congratulations to the class of 2017. I’m truly honored to be with you here today. Framingham State University has a reputation for its commitment to community involvement. I hope you will carry with you the lessons exemplified by President Cevallos about service, about being leaders in your communities, wherever you go. First, to the class of 2017. This is an incredible accomplishment. For some of you, this has been a dream since childhood. For others, an advanced degree is an achievement that even a generation ago may have seemed out of reach. For all of you, I know this degree represents countless late nights studying, juggling—sometimes disappointing—your family and friends, and struggling to keep up with other jobs and competing priorities. After all those years of hard work, you’ve made it, and you should be proud. But while this is a hugely significant milestone in your lives, one that you will never forget, it also marks the very beginning of the journey you take next. I remember what it felt like to graduate college, and then graduate from graduate school, and I also remember what it felt like to graduate from Marine training. In each case, I soon realized that this was more the beginning of a journey than the end. And while what you’ve been through has been hard, there’s a good chance that what comes next will be harder. By virtue of the degrees you’ll be awarded today, you will have access to an incredible array of opportunities. You can go pursue your fortune. You can help others through your work and service. Or you can invest in our nation’s future by teaching others or starting a new business. I hope you’ll live a life that allows you to do all of this, and be involved in your community every single day. But to seize those opportunities, you’re going to have to be willing to take some risks. You’re going to have to be prepared to fail. So that’s something I want to talk about today, because I don’t think we talk about it enough: and that is failure. Truly facing failure, and surmounting it. Like anyone else, I have failed along the way, and you will fail, too, but as I always remind my team, we will be judged not by how we do when times are easy—when progress is possible, when people like our ideas, and when nobody is running against me. We’ll be judged how we do when times are hard—when we make mistakes, when we fall down and fail, and have to pick ourselves back up again, and keep fighting. So let me tell you about two times in my life when I failed, and what I learned from them. Ever since I decided to join the Marines my senior year in college, my dream was to be in the infantry. I wanted the challenge of leading Marines on the front lines, and I wanted to be with them through the most difficult days of their lives. As an infantry platoon commander, I led about 40 Marines, most of whom were younger than most of you. My job description was a single sentence: You are responsible for everything your platoon does or fails to do. That’s it. Full stop—no exceptions or excuses. I was in the first company of Marines into Baghdad with those guys, and over the course of weeks fighting our way through Iraq, we became a true band of brothers. But my relationship with my commander—my boss—was more hit and miss. We didn’t always see eye to eye, and I rarely hesitated to let him know when I disagreed with him. After the invasion, but well before the insurgency, we settled into occupation duty in Iraq, back when Iraq was a relatively peaceful place much like postwar Germany or Japan, and my platoon was assigned a police station and the neighborhood around it. One night, we responded to gunfire and reports of a man with a grenade, and in the dark and confusion, one of my Marines shot someone who turned out to be an Iraqi Policeman. It was a terrible mistake, but a sadly common one in those days since all they wore for a uniform was an armband. Thankfully, he survived. I reported the incident to my commander over the radio; he was asleep, but I was told he had received the message. I expected a response, frankly, but didn’t get one and admit feeling a little relieved because I was afraid he would get my Marine in trouble. What I should have done was gone out of my way to ensure he knew exactly what happened, and in retrospect, I was wrong not to do that. The next day, I brought it up casually, and he accused me of trying to cover up the incident. He also gave me an earful about all the other things he didn’t like about me. And he fired me on the spot. All of a sudden, I had lost everything I had fought a year—and taken a great deal of risks—to get: a platoon I loved like brothers. And I lost them not on some training operation in California, but after I had promised their parents that I would do everything I could to bring them home. It was the worst day of my life. Now, I disagreed with my boss’s judgment, and so I appealed his decision. Eventually, a more senior officer threw out the decision and I was reinstated as a platoon commander. But at that point, I guess could have rested on my laurels and gone through that second chance feeling like I was vindicated and had nothing to prove. But I didn’t do that. I had still failed to lead my Marines—because I was taken away from them. I had failed to maintain the trust and confidence of my commander, so he fired me. And so I saw this as the greatest failure of my life up until that time, and I resolved to learn from it. I realized that while I was focused incessantly on protecting my Marines, my subordinates, I had done a terrible job of managing up, of managing my relationship with my boss. I didn’t adapt my own leadership style to meet the demands he put on me—which as my boss, he had every right to do. I learned that you have to manage what you can control, and also come to terms with what you can’t. I learned how much relationships matter, sometimes even more than principles or facts. And I’ll tell you what: When I got to be a platoon commander that second time around, I did a much better job because I took those lessons to heart. In fact, not only do I keep in close touch with my Marines, but my second boss is someone I still go to for advice. The second failure I’ll share with you was ten years later in the midst of my first political campaign. One thing you have to understand about me is that I’m new to politics—I don’t have any family money, or family political connections. Do you know who the first Congressman my parents met was….? It’s me, you’re looking at him. How many of you are about to start paying school loans, tomorrow or the next day? Quite a few I bet. Well I’m still paying them, too, I feel your pain. I’m still paying them, even as a Member of Congress. So, I didn’t get here because I had political connections, family money, or anything like that. I didn’t expect to be doing this at all, in fact, and when I was recruited by a non-profit trying to get veterans to run for office, I entered a race against an incumbent in my own party who had been there for eighteen years. Aside from my friends (including those Marines), just about everybody was against me. I spent hours upon hours upon hours meeting with every one of the city and town democratic committees in the 39 communities I now represent. And my goal was to just get a few, maybe a third, to endorse me. Exactly zero did. After a while, my own pollster told me to quit, and my campaign manager agreed with him. He said it was statistically impossible to win this race. And one morning in Lynn, I came up to a voter at a Democratic breakfast wearing an ‘I’m with Tierney’ sticker, an endorsement of my opponent, and I held out my hand and I said, ‘I’m going to work hard to earn your vote.’ He looked at me and he said, with a scowl, ‘What part of “I’m with Tierney” don’t you understand?’ And I said, as politely as I could muster, ‘What part of ‘I’m going to work hard to earn your vote’ don’t you understand?’ The reality is that he probably still voted for my opponent. That conversation didn’t succeed in winning his vote. The poll was a disaster—we had to totally change our strategy. And I had totally given up on convincing those town committees. It was easy to look at my campaign at that point as one failure after another. But I didn’t give up. I followed the advice of a great Vietnam War general whose motto was, no matter what the situation, ‘Drive on!’ Drive on… The details here are less important than the principle, but clearly there was a lot we had to change in order to win. I even appointed my driver, the most junior staff member on my entire campaign, to be the campaign manager. But through it all I didn’t give up—and we didn’t give up—and that’s how we won. So this morning as you revel in the majesty and the excitement of the day, love it, enjoy it, celebrate it. But also know that failure will come your way, too, and remember these two lessons I’ve shared from a couple of my own failures: one, don’t just face failure but embrace it, and commit yourself to learning from it. And two, no matter what happens, don’t give up – drive on. If you do that, then you’ll do well when it’s hardest, and that’s when it matters most. I hope you’ll look back on the last several years of getting your degrees not just as a period of triumph, though triumph is what we celebrate today, but as a period of struggle. A time when you failed, and got up, and carried on, and doing well when it was hard—not when it was easy—is what got you here today. If you do that, it will serve you well for years to come. I know I wouldn’t be half as effective today if I had never made those mistakes. And finally, as you take your degrees and go out to celebrate with family and friends tonight–and celebrate I’m sure you will–be proud of your accomplishments, but remember that the greatest work—and the greatest opportunity—is still to come. I am proud of what each and every one of you has accomplished, but I’m even more proud of the good work that I know you will do in the future. Good luck! To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
05.17.2017	Moulton Statement on the Appointment of Robert Mueller as Special Prosecutor in Russia Investigation May 17th, 2017 Moulton: “This decision shows that speaking truth to power is not only effective, but vital to protecting our democracy.” Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) released the following statement in response to the Department of Justice appointing former FBI Director Robert Mueller as special prosecutor. “This decision shows that speaking truth to power is not only effective, but vital to protecting our democracy. The appointment of a special prosecutor will allow us to keep fighting for the facts. And by continuing to hold the White House accountable, we will get to the truth and get back to creating jobs and expanding economic opportunity for all Americans.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
05.17.2017	Moulton’s Bipartisan Bill Signed into Law May 17th, 2017 The Modernizing Government Travel legislation is Moulton’s third bill signed into law Washington, DC – Last night, President Trump signed Representatives Seth Moulton (D-MA) and Will Hurd’s (R-TX) Modernizing Government Travel Act into law, demonstrating a major win for bipartisanship. The legislation is Moulton’s third bill signed into law, and it is one of only 11 out of 3,000+ bills to make it through the 115th Congress. Federal employees across the country can now use ridesharing services like Uber, Lyft, and bike-share for reimbursable work-related travel, which will save taxpayer dollars and reduce federal spending. This morning, Moulton and Hurd spoke at the Reboot Congress Conference, “Modernizing the First Branch of Government,” about the bill and their bipartisan work to utilize innovation to make government more accessible and efficient. “Today, we showed that despite tremendous partisanship and gridlock in Washington, progress is still possible,” said Moulton. “This bipartisan bill will make government travel more efficient and, as a result, save taxpayer dollars. We need more examples of Democrats and Republicans coming together to get things done for the American people.” “This bill will help our government keep pace with the private sector and save taxpayer dollars,” said Hurd, who chairs the House Subcommittee on IT. “Modernizing government into the 21st Century is something that we all can agree on and I am grateful that my colleagues on both sides of the aisle and the White House for lending their support.” Niki Christoff, Head of Federal Affairs for Uber said, “We appreciate all of the hard work the sponsors have done to pass the Modernizing Government Travel Act and make it easier for federal employees to get from point A to point B in an efficient and cost-effective way. Uber looks forward to providing the same reliable and convenient transportation solutions to federal employees while they’re working as we do for people around the world.” Lyft’s Vice President for Government Affairs Joseph Okpaku said, “Ridesharing services like Lyft are providing benefits to individuals and communities across the country. By allowing federal workers to enjoy those benefits while traveling, this law will promote government efficiency and save taxpayers money.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
05.10.2017	Moulton Statement on President Trump’s Firing of FBI Director Comey May 10th, 2017 Moulton: “It’s no secret what’s going on here — just look at any autocratic regime across the world.” Salem, MA – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) released the following statement in response to President Trump’s firing of FBI Director James Comey in the middle of the FBI’s counterintelligence investigation into President Trump’s ties to Russia. “What happened last night should concern every American. Trump has now fired acting Attorney General Sally Yates, U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara, and FBI Director James Comey, all of whom were investigating Trump and his allies’ ties to Russia. It’s no secret what’s going on here–just look at any autocratic regime across the world. “Americans deserve answers, and the only way to get those answers is with an independent, bipartisan commission to investigate Russia’s influence on our election, and a special prosecutor to bring any wrongdoers to justice.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
05.08.2017	Moulton to Host Town Hall Meeting in Newburyport, Saturday May 20th May 8th, 2017 Salem, MA – On Saturday, May 20th, Congressman Seth Moulton (D–MA) will host a public town hall meeting in Newburyport. So far this year, Moulton has hosted town hall meetings in Gloucester, Reading, Lynn, and North Andover with hundreds of people in attendance and thousands who have tuned in via live-stream on Moulton’s Facebook page. Moulton makes his town hall events accessible online and in real time for those who cannot attend in person. In his first term, Moulton held more town hall meetings than any other Democrat in the House or Senate. Moulton Town Hall Meeting Saturday, May 20th, 1:00PM Rupert A. Nock Middle School, Auditorium 70 Low Street, Newburyport, MA To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
05.04.2017	Moulton to House GOP: The Fight Goes on in the Senate May 4th, 2017 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) released the following statement on the House passage of TrumpCare. “Today, Republicans in Congress had an opportunity to stand up for all Americans and affirm that access to quality health care is not a partisan issue. Finding bipartisanship on health care is not impossible. In Massachusetts, Republicans and Democrats worked together to create a plan that increased coverage and decreased health care costs, and when there were issues in the law, they fixed them and made the plan better. “Trumpcare is nothing but a tax cut for billionaires paid for not just in dollars and cents, but in the lives and health and welfare of working people. Because of Trumpcare, Americans will live sicker and die sooner. “There are many issues that come before us where I believe reasonable people can disagree. However, this bill is terrible for hardworking Americans. Congress failed the American people today, but it’s not over yet. The fight for health care as a human right goes on in the Senate. We need the American people to speak out now more than ever.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
05.03.2017	Moulton and Hurd’s Bipartisan Government Innovation Bill Passes Senate, Heads to President’s Desk May 3rd, 2017 Second House bill authored by a Democrat to reach the President Washington, D.C. – Last night, the Senate unanimously passed the Modernizing Government Travel Act, sending the legislation to President Trump’s desk to be signed into law. The bipartisan effort led by Congressmen Seth Moulton (D-MA) and Will Hurd (R-TX) will allow federal employees to be reimbursed for ride sharing services such as Uber, Lyft, and bike-share programs when traveling on official business. By giving federal employees greater choice, Moulton and Hurd’s bill will make government travel more efficient and save taxpayer dollars. “Today, we showed that despite tremendous partisanship and gridlock in Washington, progress is still possible,” said Moulton. “This bipartisan bill will make government travel more efficient and, as a result, save taxpayer dollars. We need more examples of Democrats and Republicans coming together to get things done for the American people.” “This bill will finally move the needle toward a more advanced and responsive government, and make the public sector more attractive when attracting top talent,” said Hurd, who chairs the House Subcommittee on IT. “It creates greater flexibility, saves taxpayer dollars, and allows federal agencies to catch up with the 21st century economy.” “We applaud the passage of legislation that embraces transportation network companies (TNCs), which are benefiting communities across the country,” said Joseph Okpaku, Lyft’s Vice President of Government Relations. “Allowing federal workers to choose innovative transportation solutions like Lyft when traveling for work is a great way to encourage more efficient use of resources and ensure that government workers have access to safe, affordable, and reliable transportation options.” “We appreciate all of the hard work the sponsors have done to pass The Modernizing Government Act and make it easier for federal employees to get from point A to point B in an efficient and cost effective way,” said Niki Christoff, Uber’s Head of Federal Affairs. “Uber looks forward to providing the same reliable and convenient transportation solutions to federal employees while they’re working as we do for people around the world.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter <https://twitter.com/sethmoulton>, Instagram, or Medium. ###
04.28.2017	Moulton Statement on President Trump’s First 100 Days April 28th, 2017 Moulton: “The only positive thing I can see from Trump’s first 100 days is the activism his chaotic presidency has spurred.” Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) released the following statement ahead of President Trump’s first 100 days in office this Saturday. Moulton thanked President Trump for the activism his presidency has spurred across the country. “The only positive thing I can see from Trump’s first 100 days is the activism his chaotic presidency has spurred. I’d like to thank President Trump for that, and I hope that Americans across the country keep speaking out, holding him accountable, and standing up for our values.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
04.28.2017	Moulton Announces $1.017 Million Grant to Make Critical Repairs in Gloucester April 28th, 2017 Federal dollars from FEMA will repair Lane’s Cove Breakwater Salem, MA – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) announced that the City of Gloucester has received $1,017,146.25 in federal funding to make critical infrastructure improvements. The funds from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) will repair Lane’s Cove Breakwater, an area damaged from severe winter storms in 2015. “These federal dollars will allow Gloucester to make critical repairs to the areas destroyed by severe winter storms,” said Congressman Seth Moulton. “This is the type of investment in our infrastructure that our communities need and deserve, and making improvements now will have a real impact on our efforts to revitalize our communities and strengthen our regional economy.” “It is good news that this federal assistance has finally made its way to Gloucester and is available to offset some of the costs from this devastating storm. Massachusetts communities rely on this kind of FEMA assistance to respond to emergencies, and I will continue to fight for federal funding to be available to deal with future disasters,” said Senator Edward J. Markey. “We are grateful that the city has received the necessary funds for the critical needs at Lane’s Cove Seawall,” said Mayor of Gloucester, Sefatia Romeo Theken. “Our city needs help from our state and federal partners to ensure we have safe infrastructures, and this shows we are continuing to fight for results.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
04.27.2017	Reps. Moulton, Gallego, Murphy Call on President Trump to Fill Crucial Positions at State and Defense Departments April 27th, 2017 Moulton: Trump Administration is letting down our allies and handing our adversaries a gift through their disorganization and incompetence. Washington, D.C. – Today, Representatives Seth Moulton (MA-06), Ruben Gallego (AZ-07), Stephanie Murphy (FL-07) and several other Democratic Members of the House Armed Services Committee wrote to President Trump urging him to take immediate action to identify and nominate qualified candidates to fill positions in his administration vital to the national security of the United States. At a time when our allies face the growing threat posed by North Korea, key ambassadorships in the Asia-Pacific remain vacant and senior roles at the Department of Defense are still open almost 100 days after the President’s inauguration. The letter also comes as the New York Times is reporting today that “Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson has done almost nothing to select leaders for the White House’s consideration, and nominations for assistant secretaries and others who largely run the State Department are unlikely to be made for months.” “The Trump administration’s failure to fill hundreds of positions with qualified officials throughout the Defense and State Departments jeopardizes not only our national security but our leadership in the world. Critical positions dealing with threats as dangerous as weapons of mass destruction remain unfilled – this is simply unacceptable now 100 days after inauguration. The Trump Administration is letting down our allies by not providing partners to work with on these critical issues, and handing our adversaries a gift through their disorganization and incompetence,” said Rep. Seth Moulton. “It’s frankly outrageous that nearly 100 days into his presidency, President Trump has barely lifted a finger to fill the jobs that arguably matter most in any administration – the positions charged with the diplomacy and defense of our nation,” said Rep. Ruben Gallego. “The principal reason for this delay is clear: in selecting nominees, President Trump obviously values support for his campaign more than competence or experience. At a time when America faces a mounting crisis in North Korea and renewed antagonism from Russia, I urge President Trump to move rapidly to fill these critical national security positions with qualified American leaders.”“As a former national security specialist at the Department of Defense, I know that personnel is policy,” said Rep. Stephanie Murphy. “I’m concerned that the large number of vacancies in key national security positions throughout the Administration are making us less safe. In order to encounter growing threats and maximize opportunities around the world, especially in the Asia-Pacific region, this Administration needs to quickly nominate qualified people to fill these critical national security positions.” The full text of the letter can be found here. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
04.27.2017	Moulton Announces Federal Grant to Promote Environmental Education for Local Students April 27th, 2017 Salem Sound Coastwatch’s project to equip students with ocean literacy and environmental stewardship Salem, MA – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) announced that Salem Sound Coastwatch, a non-profit organization dedicated to restoring and protecting the coastal waters and marine habitats of Salem Sound, has received a $20,000 federal grant from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) through the National Marine Sanctuary Foundation. The grant will fund Salem Sound Coastwatch’s environmental education project, “STEAMing Ahead in Our Watershed,” which is designed to equip local, underserved students with a better understanding of ocean literacy and environmental stewardship through hands-on engagement in science, technology, engineering, the arts, and math (STEAM). “The Sixth District is home to a host of vital natural resources that we must defend for the sake of our local economy and for future generations to enjoy,” said Moulton. “As a member of the bipartisan Climate Solutions Task Force, I’m working to promote data-based policy that protects our environment. And the Salem Sound Coastwatch organization’s commitment to scientific research, education, and environmental stewardship makes it a critical partner. Thanks to their efforts and federal funding from NOAA, local students will have the chance to take part in an innovative environmental education project and gain a better understanding of why defending our watersheds is vital.” “’STEAMing Ahead in Our Watershed’ is a project incorporating science, technology, engineering, mathematics, and the arts, with the primary goal of getting kids out to learn about what our watershed is and how humans interact with and impact it,” said Emily Flaherty, Head of Outreach and Education for Salem Sound Coastwatch. The grant was awarded as part of the NOAA 21st Century Community Learning Centers Watershed STEM Education Partnership Grant Pilot. These awards to local community organizations are part of an innovative, out-of-school education program that pairs students with field experts to engage in hands-on, outdoors studies to better understand, protect, and restore our local watersheds and to promote local environmental protection. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
04.26.2017	Moulton to Host Town Hall Meeting in North Andover, Saturday May 6th April 26th, 2017 Salem, MA – On Saturday, May 6th, Congressman Seth Moulton (D–MA) will host a public town hall meeting in North Andover. Moulton hosted a town hall in Lynn last month with more than 500 people in attendance and hundreds more who tuned in via Moulton’s Facebook page which streamed the town hall live for those who could not attend in person. In his first term, Moulton held more town hall meetings than any other Democrat in the House or Senate, and constituents are encouraged to ask Moulton questions about any issues on their mind. Moulton Town Hall Meeting Saturday, May 6th, 12:00PM North Andover Middle School Veterans Memorial Auditorium 495 Main Street, North Andover, MA To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
04.13.2017	Moulton Statement on President Trump’s Military Strike in Afghanistan April 13th, 2017 Moulton: “What we need is a comprehensive, integrated political-military strategy to ensure the peace after our military actions are complete” Salem, MA – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) released the following statement in response to the announcement that President Trump ordered a GBU-43 bomb strike from a U.S. aircraft against ISIS forces in Afghanistan. “I have every reason to trust General Nicholson in his decision to employ this particular bomb, but let’s not confuse this tactic for a strategy that will lead to long-term success in Afghanistan. What we need is a comprehensive, integrated political-military strategy to ensure the peace after our military actions are complete. So far we’ve heard nothing but silence from President Trump, either now or during is campaign, on what that strategy should be — silence, when over 8,000 Americans are still deployed there in the longest war in American history. Dropping bombs on terrorists is the easy part. Ensuring the success of Afghan politics, so Afghanistan can protect its own people from terrorism, is much harder. But it is the only thing that will actually win the war and bring our troops home.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
04.12.2017	Moulton to Speak at Opening of Syrian Refugee Art Exhibit, Tomorrow April 12th, 2017 Moulton: “We need to distinguish between those who are running from war and those who are waging it. Mohamad’s artwork and story demonstrate that difference.” Salem, MA ­– On Thursday, April 13th, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) will speak at the art exhibit opening for Mohamad Hafez, a Syrian American artist whose work supports immigrants and refugees from the Middle East. Hafez’s exhibition, Homeland in Security, will feature works highlighting the humanitarian refugee crisis in Syria. Moulton’s office has worked with Harvard University’s Middle East Initiative and the Lanoue Gallery to make this exhibit available to the public. WHO Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) WHAT Syrian Refugee Art Exhibit Opening WHEN Thursday, April 13th, at 5:30PM WHERE Lanoue Gallery, 430 Harrison Avenue #31, Boston, MA RSVP Please RSVP to Carrie Rankin at carrie.rankin@mail.house.gov To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
04.10.2017	Moulton Introduces Young Fishermen’s Development Act in Gloucester April 10th, 2017 Bill to empower young people to have a future in the fishing industry Salem, MA – On Saturday morning, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) held a press conference at Fisherman’s Wharf in Gloucester to introduce H.R. 2079, the Young Fishermen’s Development Act. Moulton’s bipartisan legislation creates a national grant program at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) to support the training and education of our nation’s next generation of commercial fishermen. At the press conference, Moulton was joined by the Mayor of Gloucester, Sefatia Romeo Theken, State Representative Ann-Margaret Ferrante, and State Senate Minority Leader Bruce Tarr, as well as local fishing leaders Angela Sanfilippo, Vito Giacalone, and his son, Chris Giacalone, owner of Gloucester Fisherman’s Wharf. “The fishing industry is vital to the Sixth District and to our entire region, but we’re at a crossroads,” said Moulton. “This legislation will help to sustain the fishing industry by ensuring that our young people not only have a future in fishing, but are also empowered with the training and resources needed to thrive in the 21st century economy. I’m grateful to Congressman Young for his collaboration on this bill and broader efforts to support our young fishermen.” Moulton introduced this bipartisan legislation with Congressman Don Young (R-AK) as no federal programs currently exist to provide resources for young people who want to go into the fishing industry. The legislation is modeled after the successful Department of Agriculture’s New Farmers program that provides young farmers with the resources and support they need to start businesses. The bill’s establishment of a competitive federal grant program will equip local organizations with the necessary tools to develop training, education, outreach, and technical assistance for young fishermen. Training workshops will not only focus on seamanship, vessel maintenance, and safety, but also on the entrepreneurial skills necessary to open and operate a successful commercial fishing business. “Representatives Moulton and Young understand that the success of young fishermen is vital to the survival of fishing communities in New England and across the country,” said John Pappalardo, CEO of the Cape Cod Commercial Fishermen’s Alliance. “We look forward to working with them on this important effort to ensure the next generation of commercial fishermen are on the water and ready to sustainably harvest America’s seafood.” Moulton’s legislation is part of his broader efforts to bring innovation into the region’s fishing industry. Initiatives include: Fish 2.0 New England Business Development Workshop: Partnered with the national Fish 2.0 organization to host this free, three-day business development workshop in the district for sustainable seafood entrepreneurs. Supporting the Gloucester Fresh campaign and Cape Ann Fresh Catch: Collaborated with the Gloucester Fishermen’s Wives Association to promote underutilized fish species and educate consumers on the benefits of underutilized fish species. Local Foods, Local Places Initiative: Worked with Gloucester to become one of 26 US communities chosen to participate in this White House initiative to expand economic opportunities in the fishing industry and support healthy living. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
04.06.2017	Reps. Moulton, Russell Issue Joint Statement in Response to President Trump’s Military Strike Against Syria April 6th, 2017 Combat veterans and co-chairs of Warrior Caucus advocate for long-term strategy WASHINGTON, D.C. – This evening, Congressmen Seth Moulton (D-MA) and Steve Russell (R-OK) issued a joint statement in response to President Donald Trump’s military airstrike against Syria. Moulton and Russell serve as co-chairs of the Warrior Caucus, a group of bipartisan combat veterans committed to rising above partisan politics to address national security issues. Joint statement below. “We cannot stand by in silence as dictators murder children with chemical weapons. But military action without clear goals and objectives gets us nowhere. We look forward to hearing the President present a plan for Syria to the American people, for Congress to agree on bipartisan action, and for America to partner with the world community to help bring this treacherous conflict to an end.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium.
04.03.2017	Moulton Leads on U.S. Response to North Korea’s Missile Testing April 3rd, 2017 Moulton: “I urge the United States to apply all available sanctions on North Korea and push China to enforce existing sanctions.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congress passed a bipartisan resolution condemning North Korea’s development of multiple intercontinental ballistic missiles and calling on the United States to apply all available economic sanctions on North Korea. Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA), an original co-sponsor on the resolution, released the following statement: “The United States will not stand for North Korea’s dangerous and illegal missile testing. This resolution sends a strong, bipartisan message to both North Korea and to our allies that these actions have consequences. I urge the Administration to apply all available sanctions to North Korea and push China to enforce existing sanctions as well.” As Chinese President Xi Jinping prepares to visit the United States and meet with President Trump this week, Moulton will closely monitor the Administration’s response to North Korea’s destabilizing and provocative actions to ensure our allies are supported and our nation is kept safe. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
04.03.2017	Massachusetts Delegation Sends Letter to HHS Secretary Price Calling on Him Not to Hamstring Affordable Care Act April 3rd, 2017 In light of legislative failure of repeal effort, Mass. lawmakers call on Price to avoid partisanship and fully implement health care law Washington, D.C. – With repeal of the Affordable Care Act back on its agenda according to Congressional Republicans, today Seth Moulton (D-MA) and the entire Massachusetts delegation sent a letter to Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary Tom Price calling on him not to undermine the health care law in light of Massachusetts’s unique success implementing near universal health coverage. In the letter, the lawmakers express serious concerns that, in the wake of the recent legislative failure of the replacement to the health care law, Secretary Price, utilizing his authority as head of the agency, will take steps to facilitate the demise of the individual insurance market, minimize or remove consumer protections, and permit detrimental changes to the Medicaid program. “As a duty of your office, you must ensure the ACA is fully implemented and executed as intended under the law,” writes the delegation in the letter to Secretary Price. “We hope that efforts to repeal the ACA are finally a relic of the past, and, as has been the case for the past seven years, we stand ready to work with you on bipartisan efforts to improve the health care system for millions of families across the country.” A copy of the delegation letter to HHS can be found HERE. Already, in an effort to undermine the health care law, the Trump administration withdrew planned advertising for the Affordable Care Act’s 2017 open enrollment period, instated further restrictions on special enrollment periods, and cut the open enrollment period for the individual market in half. In the letter, the lawmakers point to Massachusetts’s bipartisan success passing incremental fixes to its 2006 health care coverage law, as well as implementing additional changes to take advantage of the new tools provided by the Affordable Care Act when it was signed into law in 2010. As a result of these reform efforts, more than 97 percent of Massachusetts residents have health insurance. ###
03.29.2017	Moulton Statement on Trump’s Executive Order on the Environment March 29th, 2017 Moulton: “President Trump’s latest executive order shows a complete disregard for facts and science.” Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) released the following statement in response to President Trump’s executive order to rollback EPA policies and significantly alter the country’s climate change and environmental policies. “President Trump’s latest executive order shows a complete disregard for facts and science. Climate change is real, and it jeopardizes our homes, our cities, and our national security. In Massachusetts, we see the destructive impact of climate change firsthand, from coastline erosion threatening homes and communities, to last summer’s drought that damaged our local economy. “Ignoring this reality, Trump’s executive order will irresponsibly roll back the progress we made under President Obama to protect our environment for generations to come. And Trump’s order does nothing to create 21st century jobs or make us competitive in the global economy. “Environmental protection and economic growth go hand in hand with smart, effective policies. But Trump’s disastrous plan is not only harmful to our environment, but to our economy and our national security as well. “I’m committed to fighting this and working to create forward-looking policies that will make us more resilient against extreme weather and help to reduce our contribution to climate change.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
03.29.2017	Moulton Calls on Chairman Nunes to Recuse Himself from Russia Investigation March 29th, 2017 In video statement, Moulton says: “Chairman Nunes has compromised his impartiality.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) released a video statement calling on the Chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, Devin Nunes (R-CA), to recuse himself from the Russia investigation in the wake of unanswered questions. Watch Moulton’s statement here. Video transcript below: America deserves a chairman of our Intelligence Committee that we can trust. Congressman Nunes is a colleague, he’s a genuinely nice man, and that’s not something I say about everyone around here. But right now he’s charged with investigating Russia’s meddling in our elections, in our democracy, trying to fundamentally undermine our system of government. It’s one of the most important investigations in our nation’s history. And Chairman Nunes has compromised his impartiality in that investigation by briefing President Trump — someone who is being investigated himself. I serve on the Armed Services Committee, I have a Republican chairman, and he’s someone that I trust. America deserves that of our Intelligence chairman as well. As Russia tries to fundamentally undermine our democracy and our way of life, we have to stand up and we have to fight back. And that begins with a thorough investigation, that everyone can believe, into exactly what happened. That’s why it’s time for Chairman Nunes to recuse himself from further investigations into Russia. It’s what our democracy requires, and it’s what the American people should demand. — To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
03.28.2017	Reps. Moulton, Gallagher Announce Bill Allowing for New National Global War on Terrorism Memorial in DC March 28th, 2017 Moulton, Gallagher lead bipartisan effort to honor our post 9/11 veterans Washington, D.C. – Today Representatives Seth Moulton (D-MA) and Mike Gallagher (R-WI) introduced H.R. 873, a bipartisan bill allowing the establishment of the National Global War on Terrorism Memorial in Washington D.C. The bill aims to commemorate and honor the members of the Armed Forces that served in defense of the United States in the Global War on Terrorism. Both Moulton and Gallagher are post 9/11 Marine Corps veterans who served in Iraq. “I served in Iraq with some of the best Americans I know, and we owe this to all of them, to their families, and to the young men and women who continue put their lives on the line for us today,” said Moulton. “I’m proud to introduce this bipartisan legislation with my colleague in Congress and fellow Marine, Congressman Gallagher.” “Republican or Democrat, it doesn’t matter. Memorializing the service and sacrifice of more than 6,800 fallen United States servicemembers is an American matter, and I’m proud to introduce this bipartisan legislation with my fellow Marine and current colleague, Congressman Moulton,” stated Gallagher. “During my service in the Marine Corps I served alongside countless brave men and women, some of whom paid the ultimate sacrifice in the Global War on Terrorism. This piece of legislation honors their service and memorializes their legacy for future generations.” “We’re honored today to stand alongside Representatives Moulton and Gallagher, and thank them for their bipartisan support and the support of the veteran service organizations represented here today, to pave the way for the national Global War on Terror memorial. This memorial will honor the more than 59,433 casualties in our nation’s longest war, the Gold Star and Blue Star families who bear the cost of this conflict, and for our brothers and sisters who have fought and continue to fight in this war today. We are looking forward to working with the House on the passage of this bill to bring the memorial to its rightful place on the National Mall,” said Andrew J. Brennan, founder and executive director of Global War on Terror Memorial Foundation (GWOTMF). This bill exempts the Memorial from current law which prohibits commemorations from being authorized on federal land until at least ten years after the officially designated end of conflict. Unlike most previous conflicts, the Global War on Terror is an ongoing fight, and this legislation would enable us to pay tribute to those who have served and continue to serve. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
03.27.2017	Rep. Moulton, Rep. Brat Introduce Bipartisan Bill to Make Government More Transparent March 27th, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Representatives Seth Moulton (D-MA) and Dave Brat (R-VA) introduced the bipartisan Statutes at Large Modernization Act, H.R. 1729. Moulton’s legislation will require the U.S. Statutes at Large to be placed online in a digital and searchable format, just like the U.S. Code. By modernizing these legal statutes, the American people will have easy access to legal and permanent evidence of U.S. laws. Currently the U.S. Statutes at Large are not available online in a searchable, non-proprietary format. “Americans deserve a government that is both transparent and accessible,” said Rep. Moulton. “This bill will make it easier for Americans to access the laws that affect our daily lives, and I look forward to continued bipartisan work to make government more accountable with my colleague Congressman Brat.” “Our Founding Fathers established the United States of America as a government under laws, and not of men.” said Rep. Brat. “This legislation is a common-sense reform we can make to increase transparency and allow our country’s legal history to be accessible in digital form.” The U.S. Statutes at Large are compiled by the National Archives and Records Administration each session of Congress and include legal and permanent evidence of the laws enacted by Congress. This includes concurrent resolutions, reorganization plans, proposed and ratified amendments to the Constitution, and Proclamations by the President. While the U.S. Code is easily accessible online, the Statutes at Large contain a more comprehensive history of the laws of our Republic. The U.S. Code does not contain repealed laws, original statutes that have been amended, private laws, or statutes with limited duration like appropriations acts or infrastructure projects. All of these components can be consulted as “evidence” of the law before the judicial branch but cannot be found in searchable text online. This legislation would direct the Government Printing Office to lead the digitization process and consult with public and private entities with expertise throughout the process. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
03.24.2017	Moulton: “Today is a victory that belongs to every American who spoke out about this terrible bill.” March 24th, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) released the following statement in response to Speaker Ryan cancelling the vote on the GOP Trumpcare bill. “Today is a victory that belongs to every American who spoke out about this terrible bill. This is exactly how democracy should work. To Americans across the country who said we will not remain silent when President Trump and Republicans in Congress attempt to strip health care from 24 million of us, thank you for fighting. But the fight is not over. We must continue to stand firm to protect our fundamental right to health care once and for all.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
03.21.2017	Moulton, Kinzinger Welcome Iraq’s Prime Minister, Haider al-Abadi, and Launch Iraq Caucus March 21st, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressmen Seth Moulton (D-MA) and Adam Kinzinger (R-IL) welcomed the Prime Minister of Iraq, His Excellency Haider al-Abadi, at a meeting with the newly created Congressional Iraq Caucus. The goal of this new caucus, started by Iraq War veterans Moulton and Kinzinger, is to create a venue to engage with experts and key officials and improve and strengthen the US-Iraq relationship. Following their meeting, the Congressmen issued the following statements. “We launched the bipartisan Iraq Caucus to ensure that our shared investment in a more stable Iraq is not squandered,” said Moulton. “We can’t win the war without a strong relationship between our two nations, and that means a commitment to a political strategy for long-term peace in Iraq. Our caucus seeks to play a leading role in that effort so that we can bring our troops home for good. It’s an honor to have the support and participation of the Iraqi Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi and the Iraqi Embassy, including Ambassador Yaseen, as we work on strengthening US-Iraq policy and encouraging other members to be engaged in this bipartisan mission. Too many young Americans have given their lives for us to do anything less.” “Freedom loving nations around the world have long felt the effects of terrorism and instability coming from the Middle East. No country bears more of the burden in this fight than Iraq. In the fight against ISIS, America cannot defeat the cancer alone – we must be joined by our allies in the Muslim world, and Iraq is a critical partner in that fight. Today, after meeting with Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi, I joined my colleagues in launching the Congressional Iraq Caucus. I’m proud to lead this effort and look forward to expanding our US-Iraq relationship. It’s critically important that we continue to support Iraq as we look to eradicate terrorism at home and abroad,” said Kinzinger. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
03.16.2017	Moulton Reacts to President Trump’s Shortsighted Budget Proposal March 16th, 2017 Moulton: “For a President who talks about “America First,” this budget puts Americans last.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) released the following statement in response to President Donald Trump’s proposed federal budget for Fiscal Year 2018. “For a President who talks about “America First,” this budget puts Americans last. “During the campaign, Donald Trump promised to create good-paying jobs, invest in our infrastructure, and ensure that all Americans have the opportunity to thrive in the new economy. I have advocated for all those things myself—they are bipartisan priorities. Yet, President Trump’s budget makes no mention of jobs, infrastructure investment, or expanding economic opportunity for all Americans. “This budget makes all the wrong trade-offs. Cutting investments in research and development that advance lifesaving medicines and spur untold economic innovation and job creation is beyond shortsighted. It is destructive to America. To pay for a wall that no one actually wants, Trump is gutting the Coast Guard and the airport security funding that protect our seas and skies. To build up a military to fight wars, Trump guts the State Department’s capacity to avoid wars through diplomacy and directly puts our troops lives’ at increased risk. To give massive tax cuts to millionaires and billionaires, Trump cuts entrepreneurship, rural investment, and job-training programs that support middle-class workers and small business owners. It’s all the wrong trade-offs. Instead, I’d invest in America: in our people, in our schools, and in our infrastructure, to reignite the American Dream and spur our future prosperity as a nation. Trump’s budget will prevent Americans from attaining economic opportunity and security, and Americans deserve a plan that helps all of us succeed in the new economy and prepares our country to win the 21st century.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
03.16.2017	Moulton, Capuano Lead Delegation Effort to Prevent MBTA Cuts to Weekend Commuter Rail Service March 16th, 2017 Cuts would have disproportionate impact on seniors and people with disabilities WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressmen Seth Moulton (MA-06) and Mike Capuano (MA-07) led a delegation wide letter to the Massachusetts Department of Transportation and Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority (MBTA) in response to the MBTA’s proposed elimination of weekend commuter rail service and door-to-door service for seniors and people with disabilities. The letter notes these cuts “would leave some of the most vulnerable residents of the Commonwealth without access to transportation, and may drive people away from using our commuter rail system in the future,” and the entire delegation requests the MBTA consider other options to cut costs. “Once again Governor Baker is looking to balance the books on the disabled, the elderly, and the people who need this service the most. Instead, the MBTA should follow the lead of leading transit agencies around the world that are finding innovative, cost-effective ways to expand off-peak service to drive ridership and revenue while providing critical transportation to the citizens they exist to serve,” said Congressman Seth Moulton (MA-06). “While I understand that there are constraints on the MBTA’s budget and this is just an option under consideration, eliminating all weekend commuter rail service will create difficulties for people without access to other forms of travel, “said Congressman Michael E. Capuano (MA-07). “Many rely on this service to get to their jobs and visit their families.” “These potential service cuts would hurt Massachusetts families and local businesses that rely on the MBTA. I’m committed to working with the congressional delegation and state officials to support efforts to maintain our public transit system while improving access to safe, reliable and affordable transportation options for people across the Commonwealth,” said Senator Elizabeth Warren. “Affordable transportation options throughout the Commonwealth should be available to the elderly, disabled, and families who work and shop on the weekend. The commuter rail line is a lifeline, especially for workers across Massachusetts who travel to their jobs on the weekend. We must strive to have an efficient transit system in the Greater Boston area, which is why strengthening access to commuter rail service and door-to-door service for seniors and persons with disabilities must be a priority,” said Senator Edward J. Markey. “Every day thousands of riders rely on the Worcester-Boston line and cutting this service would be a huge mistake that hurts families and businesses across Massachusetts,” Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) said. “The Worcester line has the second highest ridership of all commuter lines on the weekend and plays a vital role in connecting our regions and growing our state’s economy. Now more than ever we need to invest in smart public transportation options that are efficient, cost-effective and environmentally-friendly. I urge Secretary Pollack and Chief Administrator Shortsleeve to do the right thing and protect the MBTA weekend commuter rail service from these damaging cuts.” “Access to safe, affordable and reliable transportation plays a critical role in the lives of Massachusetts residents during the week and on the weekend,” said Congresswoman Niki Tsongas (MA-03). “The Third District has three major commuter rail lines – Haverhill, Lowell, and Fitchburg – and many residents rely on The Ride for their transportation needs. Cutting weekend rail service would have a very real impact on those who work on the weekend, forcing them to find alternative means of transportation that could be more costly and less reliable. And eliminating door-to-door ride service would cause undue burden for seniors and people with disabilities. Maintaining weekend service is important to this region’s economic and personal well-being.” “Public transportation fortifies our local economies, connects our businesses and supports working families. Ending weekend travel on the MBTA commuter rail will reinforce income inequality in our state and increase divides between Greater Boston and the rest of Massachusetts,” said Congressman Joe Kennedy III (MA-04). LETTER TEXT BELOW: March 16, 2016 The Honorable Secretary Pollack Secretary & Chief Executive Officer Massachusetts Department of Transportation 10 Park Plaza, Suite 4160 Boston, MA 02116 Mr. Brian Shortsleeve Chief Administrator & Acting General Manager Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority 10 Park Plaza, Suite 3910 Boston, MA 02116 Dear Secretary Pollack and Mr. Shortsleeve: We write to you to express our concern over reports that the Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority (MBTA) is considering eliminating weekend commuter rail service as well as door-to-door service for seniors and people with disabilities in an effort to reduce operating costs. While we share your commitment to improving the MBTA, such cuts would leave some of the most vulnerable residents of the Commonwealth without access to transportation, and may drive people away from using our commuter rail system in the future. Thousands of Massachusetts people use the commuter rail each weekend, even though it operates less frequently than weekdays. In addition to benefiting tourist, recreation and hospitality businesses throughout the Commonwealth, many weekend commuters need reliable service to get to work, medical appointments, and to connect with loved ones. Many of these travelers have no other options to get where they need to go. The U.S. Census Bureau found that our state has the sixth highest level of income inequality in the nation. According to a Harvard University study, commuting time is the number one determinant of social mobility. Our commuter rail system should be enhancing access to economic opportunity – the cuts you are considering would do the exact opposite. We agree that it is essential to that the MBTA finds a fiscally responsible path forward. However, we cannot ignore the potential effect eliminating weekend commuter service will have on generating passenger revenues. Data shows that ridership grows when transit service is reliable and more frequent. In fact, today many systems in Europe and Canada are increasing off-peak and weekend services for this very reason. To be clear, of course everyone understands the need to temporarily close systems down for repairs and improvements. That reason for a closure, accompanied by adequate notice and rapid completion, is necessary and appropriate regardless of the temporary inconvenience. We share your commitment to ensuring that the residents of Massachusetts have access to a safe and reliable commuter rail service. It is in that spirit we ask that you to consider what other options are available to save money for the MBTA moving forward. We stand ready to assist you in any way we can. ###
03.15.2017	Moulton Introduces Bipartisan Bill to Stand with our Afghan Allies March 15th, 2017 Bill would increase the number of visas for the Afghan SIV Program WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressmen Seth Moulton (D-MA), Adam Kinzinger (R-IL), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), and Steve Stivers (R-OH) introduced a bipartisan bill, Keeping Our Promise to our Afghan Allies, to increase the number of available visas for the Afghan Special Immigrant Visa (SIV) Program. Many of the Afghans who worked with U.S. troops as interpreters, security personnel, maintainers, base support employees, medical staff, and more face death threats as a result of their partnership with the United States military. The State Department recently announced that it will no longer interview new SIV applicants due to the number of applicants in processing being already sufficient to exhaust the number of available visas. Moulton’s legislation would add 2,500 more visas to the quota. “One of the things I was most proud of as a Marine infantry officer was that we never let our enemies make us compromise our values, and one of those values is a solemn commitment to our allies and to our brothers in arms. Our Iraqi and Afghan allies put their lives on the line not just for their country, but for ours, and they receive death threats because of their work with our troops. The idea that we would turn our backs on these patriots is wrong and un-American. The bill I’m introducing will ensure that courageous Afghans aren’t left to certain death by continuing the Afghan Special Immigrant Visa (SIV) Program. Given that both our values and our national security are at stake, I trust that my colleagues on both sides of the aisle will support this vital legislation,” said Moulton. Moulton has been a vocal advocate for reauthorizing the Afghan SIV program. Last year, he introduced a provision to our National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) to remove the narrowing of U.S. resettlement eligibility requirements to include Afghans who risked their lives working for the U.S. in Afghanistan and face well-documented death threats due to their work. During a speech on the house floor in support of this amendment, Moulton said we need to give these Afghan allies a chance to stay alive, rather than abandon them to the same enemies they united with the U.S. to destroy. His amendment was endorsed by The New York Times Editorial Board in an editorial piece. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
03.13.2017	Moulton to Fight Republican Plan to Dismantle Health Care for Millions of Americans March 13th, 2017 Moulton: “They’re jamming through a replacement that shifts the tax burden to seniors and hardworking Americans.” Salem, MA – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) released the following statement about the Republican repeal bill after the Congressional Budget Office, whose director was appointed by a Republican Speaker, released a reporting on the consequences of the GOP plan. “The Affordable Care Act has expanded affordable coverage, prevented people from going bankrupt to pay for lifesaving treatments, and has begun reducing the costs of health care. I’ve always said that I welcome improvements to the ACA to achieve better outcomes at lower costs and improve coverage for more Americans, but Republicans have failed to do that with this plan. “Instead, they’re jamming through a bill that shifts the tax burden to seniors and hardworking Americans who will be forced to make a choice between paying for lifesaving treatment or paying their electric bill. “Fourteen million Americans who have health insurance today will lose it next year under the Republican plan. Twenty-four million will lose it in 10 years. And those who have health insurance will be paying more money for less coverage. “During my ACA town hall in Gloucester, I heard from Rosemary whose five year old daughter’s life was saved because of the ACA, and Amy who talked about her friend with MS who would not have been able to afford her medication without the insurance she received through the ACA. Healthcare is a human right–this means that no matter your age, gender, or wealth, you should be afforded the same access to care. This bill fails in every way to meet that standard, and that’s why I oppose it and will continue to fight against it. The American people deserve better.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
03.13.2017	Moulton Condemns Efforts to Leave Afghan Allies Behind, Calls on Congress to Act March 13th, 2017 Moulton: “The idea that we would turn our backs on these patriots is wrong and un-American.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) released the below statement following the State Department’s announcement that it will no longer interview new Special Immigrant Visa (SIV) applicants due to exhausting the number of available visas. In the coming days, Moulton will introduce a bill to increase the number of available visas. “One of the things I was most proud of as a Marine infantry officer was that we never let our enemies make us compromise our values, and one of those values is a solemn commitment to our allies and to our brothers in arms. “Our Iraqi and Afghan allies put their lives on the line not just for their country, but for ours, and they receive death threats because of their work with our troops. The idea that we would turn our backs on these patriots is wrong and un-American. The bill I’m introducing will ensure that courageous Afghans aren’t left to certain death by continuing the Afghan Special Immigrant Visa (SIV) Program. Given that both our values and our national security are at stake, I trust that my colleagues on both sides of the aisle will support this vital legislation.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
03.06.2017	Moulton Statement on Trump’s Refugee Executive Order March 6th, 2017 Moulton: “I will continue to fight for those American values when they are under assault from within…” Salem, MA – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) released the following statement about President Donald Trump’s refugee executive order. “Ensuring the safety of Americans here at home and our troops abroad is one of my most sacred responsibilities as a Member of Congress. Refugees already undergo the most comprehensive vetting for anyone seeking to enter the U.S., but if President Trump wants to make improvements to the process, just as President Obama did, then I will support those efforts. Of course, they must be constitutional and aligned with our values as in all things our government does. But this new ban does absolutely nothing to strengthen the vetting process. It just suspends all visas for individuals in six Muslim majority countries and completely shuts down the refugee program. And while Iraq was removed from the list, thousands of Iraqis who applied for refugee status will be barred from coming to the U.S. “These are men, women, and children who are fleeing violence and persecution by terrorists. Their enemies are America’s enemies. By turning our backs on them, it makes it more difficult to work with our allies in the Middle East, allies who are vital to defeating ISIS and other terrorist groups. President Trump’s ban continues to make us less safe and is in total opposition to the values upon which our country was founded. I will continue to fight for those American values when they are under assault from within just as I put my life on the line to defend them overseas.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
03.02.2017	Moulton Calls on Attorney General Sessions to Resign March 2nd, 2017 Moulton: “Americans deserve an Attorney General who tells the truth.” Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) released the following statement calling on Attorney General Jeff Sessions to resign in light of reports that Sessions spoke with the Russian ambassador last year and did not disclose this information during his confirmation hearings while he was under oath. “How can we trust Jeff Sessions to serve as our nation’s chief law enforcement officer if he can’t be trusted to tell the truth under oath? The Attorney General should resign immediately. This is not a partisan issue. Americans deserve an Attorney General who tells the truth, period.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
03.02.2017	Moulton Slams President Trump’s Lack of Leadership in Response to Yemen Operation March 2nd, 2017 Moulton draws contrast between President George W. Bush and President Donald J. Trump Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) released the following statement in response to President Trump’s failure to accept responsibility as Commander in Chief for the raid in Yemen that cost the life of a U.S. service member. “President Trump is our Commander in Chief now, and he approved the raid in Yemen that cost the life of one of our American service members. We have no higher responsibility than to protect our nation and our troops, and that’s why I led other members of the Armed Services Committee in requesting a briefing on this operation. “Instead of accepting responsibility for an operation he approved, President Trump cowardly blamed our military generals for Petty Officer Ryan Owens’ death. That’s cowardice not leadership. “In the Marines, I was responsible for everything my platoon did or failed to do. I served under President George W. Bush. I didn’t vote for him, I didn’t agree with his War in Iraq, but I respect that he always took responsibility as our Commander in Chief. That’s what real leaders do. “We owe our American troops the commitment to lead with courage and responsibility. President Trump obviously has no idea what real leadership or sacrifice means.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
03.02.2017	Moulton to Host Press Conference with Pete Frates on ALS Bill, Saturday March 2nd, 2017 Bill aims to eliminate five-month waiting period for Social Security Disability Insurance for people with ALS Salem, MA – On Saturday, March 4th, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) will host a press conference with Beverly native and national ALS advocate, Pete Frates, on Moulton’s bipartisan ALS Disability Insurance Access Act. The legislation aims to ensure that amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) patients are provided vital support and benefits in a more timely manner by waiving the Social Security Disability Insurance (SSDI) five-month waiting period for people living with ALS. Medical experts and members of the ALS association will also be in attendance at the press conference. WHO Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) Pete, John, and Julie Frates Dr. Merit Cudkowicz, MD, Chief of Neurology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Julianne Dorn, Professor of Neurology Harvard Medical School Darlene Sawicki, MSN, NP, Director of Nursing Neurology/Co Director ALS Clinic, Massachusetts General Hospital Jennifer DiMartino, Executive Director, ALS ONE Lynn Aaronson, Executive Director, The ALS Association, MA Chapter Carol O. Hamilton, Senior Director of Development, ALS Therapy Development Institute Steve Pickett, ALS Patient and Patient Advocate Jessica Pickett, ALS Family Member and Patient Advocate Other Massachusetts area doctors Other ALS advocacy leaders WHAT Press conference on Moulton’s bipartisan bill to provide vital support for people living with ALS WHERE 21 Landers Drive Beverly, MA WHEN Saturday, March 4th at 2:00PM To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
03.01.2017	Moulton Calls President Trump’s Address “Short-Sighted” March 1st, 2017 Moulton: “President Trump’s message to Congress does not reflect the values I put my life on the line to protect.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) released the following statement after President Donald Trump delivered his first address to a Joint Session of Congress. “President Trump’s message to Congress does not reflect the values I put my life on the line to protect. We face real problems in America today: economic insecurity and a lack of good jobs at home, and rising competition and instability around the world. But what I heard tonight from our president does not address those problems. Instead, we heard about wasting money on a wall that won’t keep anyone out and is unpaid for. We heard about cuts to diplomacy that will cost the lives of more American troops in combat. This is all an expensive and short-sighted distraction from the one thing I didn’t hear enough about: spurring sustainable economic security and opportunity for all Americans. “We need smart investment in America: in our people, in our schools, in our infrastructure, to reignite the American dream here at home. That’s the foundation of our future prosperity as a nation.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
02.22.2017	Moulton, McGovern Conclude Visit to Cuba February 22nd, 2017 Representatives promote engagement with Cuba and economic development in Massachusetts WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressmen Seth Moulton (D-MA-6) and Jim McGovern (D-MA-2) are concluding their visit toCuba, where they explored new opportunities to promote U.S. economic development between Cuba and Massachusetts and continue the progress begun by President Obama to bring U.S.-Cuba relations into the 21st century. The trip focused on economic opportunities for Massachusetts companies in the biotechnology and life sciences sectors. “Massachusetts and Cuba are both worldwide leaders in biotechnology, and this visit is the first step in what both sides hope willbe a future of collaboration,” said Moulton. “Knowing of the treatments pioneered in Cuba, many local scientists have wanted to work together with their counterparts but didn’t know how to begin the conversation. We will all develop new treatments and save more lives if we can share knowledge, another example of the benefits that come from reengagement between our two nations.” “With this new chapter in U.S.-Cuba relations, America has a real opportunity to lead. I was proud to join Republican andDemocratic leaders in Cuba this week as we continue to explore new partnerships between our countries,” Congressman JimMcGovern said. “Massachusetts has always been a world-leader in delivering innovative, high-quality health care and this trip helped us lay the foundation for strong partnerships that will help scientists and business leaders from our countries work together for years to come. I will continue to work with our bipartisan coalition to strengthen cooperation on a broad range of issues and advance policies to support partnerships to create good jobs, help businesses grow, and advance life-saving treatment that will help people in the U.S. and around the world.” Moulton and McGovern, who joined President Obama’s delegation to Cuba last spring, discussed progress in, and futureopportunities for, U.S. Cuban cooperation on a wide range of topics, including trade, migration, and human rights. The congressmen attended meetings with leaders from the Massachusetts Biotechnology Council (MassBio) and the WashingtonOffice on Latin America (WOLA) and a delegation from Northeastern University that was in Havana, Cuba to explore partnerships in the areas of medical, biotechnology, and environmental research and opportunities for business and university exchanges. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or find the Congressman on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
02.21.2017	Moulton Bringing Constituent Services Directly to Cities and Towns February 21st, 2017 District representatives will hold office hours in all 39 cities and towns in the Sixth District Salem, MA – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) announced that his district representatives will hold office hours in all 39 cities and towns in the Sixth District this year. Office hours will provide constituents an opportunity to visit with Moulton’s team of district representatives outside of normal business hours and in their own community so that Moulton’s team can assist with casework or other issues. “We recognize that people are incredibly busy and that getting to our office isn’t always easy, so we’re bringing constituent services directly to the communities we serve,” said Moulton. “Constituent services is one of my top priorities, and my district representatives in Salem work very hard to get results. In this next year, we are committed to reaching even more constituents by making our office hours more convenient for people throughout the Sixth District.” “Last term our team assisted 1,850 constituents having issues with federal, state and local agencies, and we helped recover over $700,000 for them. Staff office hours will allow us to assist even more,” said Congressman Moulton’s District Director, Rick Jakious. For constituents who have questions about social security and Medicare, veterans affairs, passports and immigration, the IRS, challenges with a federal agency, or other issues, there will be a staff member accessible to all 39 cities and towns in the Sixth District over the next year. The first set of office hours will be held on Wednesday, February 22 in Essex from 4:30PM-6:30PM at the Council on Aging and Senior Center at 17 Pickering Street. Staff Office Hours will be posted on the website under Upcoming Events. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
02.21.2017	Moulton to Host Town Hall Meeting in Reading, Saturday March 4th February 21st, 2017 Salem, MA – On Saturday, March 4th, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) will host a public town hall meeting in Reading. Moulton hosted a town hall in Gloucester two weeks ago with more than 300 people in attendance and hundreds more who tuned in via Moulton’s Facebook which streamed the town hall live for those who could not attend in person. Moulton has held more town hall meetings than any Democrat in the House and Senate, and constituents are encouraged to ask Moulton questions about any issues on their mind. Moulton Town Hall Meeting Saturday, March 4th, 3:30pm-4:30pm Reading Public Library Community Room 64 Middlesex Ave, Reading To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
02.16.2017	Moulton, King Introduce Bipartisan Legislation to Provide Better Care for People Living with ALS February 16th, 2017 Bill aims to eliminate five-month waiting period for Social Security Disability Insurance for people with ALS Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressmen Seth Moulton (D-MA) and Peter King (R-NY) re-introduced The ALS Disability Insurance Access Act, bipartisan legislation they spearheaded to ensure that amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) patients are provided vital support and benefits in a more timely manner. The legislation would waive the Social Security Disability Insurance (SSDI) five-month waiting period for people living with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), commonly referred to as Lou Gehrig’s Disease. “ALS is a cruel and unforgiving disease, and it’s vital that we provide the best possible care for people living with it,” said Congressman Moulton. “I’m one of the millions of people inspired by my friend, Pete Frates. You only need to spend a few minutes with Pete to appreciate his resilience, and Pete and his family have been fierce advocates for research towards a cure. We owe it to Pete, his family, and all Americans impacted by ALS to provide top quality care. I’m proud to introduce this bipartisan bill to provide the SSDI benefits that people living with ALS and their families need and deserve.” “Given the prognosis for those diagnosed with ALS, it defies common sense and decency to require these same individuals to wait for benefits they have paid for and most importantly, deserve,” said Congressman King. “An ALS diagnosis is a traumatic, emotional reality that every patient and their family must face,” said Nancy Frates, mother of ALS patient Pete Frates and member of the National Board of Trustees of the ALS Association. “Soon after diagnosis, they learn of the foreboding financial burden that looms. In a disease where time is a most precious commodity, a 5-month waiting period for benefits is cruel and unacceptable. Our family is honored to be represented by Congressman Seth Moulton who we consider a champion for ALS families. Today’s bill is a huge step is helping ease some of the unimaginable pain ALS envelopes it’s families in. We are so grateful for his leadership.” ALS is neurodegenerative disease that affects nerve cells in the brain and the spinal cord, leading to total paralysis and death within two to five years of diagnosis. For unknown reasons, veterans are twice as likely to develop ALS as the general population. There is currently no known cause or cure. Under current law, people with ALS cannot receive their Medicare benefit until they are eligible to receive SSDI, which is subject to a five month wait period. Moulton and King’s legislation builds on the previous actions taken by Congress and the Social Security Administration by waiving the five-month waiting period for critical SSDI benefits. A Senate version of the bill was introduced by Senator Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI) and Senator Tom Cotton (R-AR). “This legislation is especially important for people with ALS, for whom five months can mean the difference between life and death,” said Barbara Newhouse, President and CEO of The ALS Association. “Nearly half of those living with ALS will die within 16 months of diagnosis, so it’s critical that they receive the benefits they deserve and have paid for as quickly as possible.” Newhouse continued, “This effort is truly bipartisan and we applaud those champions in the Senate and House for fighting for people with ALS and working to ensure they have access to the vital health and disability benefits.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
02.15.2017	Moulton Calls on Congress to Put Country Before Politics, Investigate Trump White House Ties to Russia February 15th, 2017 Moulton: “Americans do not have clarity about who this administration works for.” Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) released the following statement in response to reports on the Trump administration’s ties to Russia and dictator, Vladimir Putin. Moulton says that Americans do not have clarity about who this administration works for, and calls on his colleagues from both sides of the aisle to put country before politics. “Despite what the Trump White House puts forth to distract us, we cannot lose sight of the broader context of the Trump administration’s ties to our enemy Russia and its brutal dictator, Vladimir Putin. We know that Russia wanted Donald Trump to be elected president. And that is either because Russia believes Trump is Putin’s buddy, or it’s because Russia has material they can use against our Commander in Chief. “Americans should never have to question whether our president will be loyal to the Constitution and to our country. But given President Trump’s repeated praise for Putin and the fact that the White House knew about Flynn’s actions for weeks and chose to do nothing, Americans do not have clarity about who this administration works for. “I’m calling on my colleagues from both sides of the aisle to put our country before politics and support a comprehensive investigation into the ties between the Trump White House and Putin’s Russia,” said Moulton. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
02.08.2017	Moulton Announces $1.3 Million Federal Dollars from FEMA to Repair Lynn’s Seaport Marina February 8th, 2017 Federal dollars will advance efforts to stimulate economic opportunity in Lynn Salem, MA – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) announced that $1.3 million federal dollars from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) have been awarded to the city of Lynn. The Federal Disaster Aid Program funding will enable the city to repair its Seaport Marina, an area damaged by winter storms. “These federal dollars to repair Lynn’s Seaport Marina will support our efforts to stimulate economic opportunity in the city,” said Moulton. “Lynn’s waterfront is integral to our Lynn Economic Advancement and Development (LEAD) team’s work to create jobs and spur development, and I applaud our local officials who worked with our federal partners at FEMA to see this through.” “It is great news that the City will be receiving FEMA funding to repair the Lynn Seaport Marina,” said Senator Thomas M. McGee. “This is yet another example of the continued collaboration with our Federal partners resulting in much need needed resources to improve our community.” “The City of Lynn is thrilled to receive this critical funding from FEMA to repair the marina,” said Mayor Judith Flanagan Kennedy. “The waterfront has long been at the heart of our master plan for redevelopment. This will bring us one step closer in transforming one of the more underutilized areas of our city into an area of economic growth and opportunity.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
02.03.2017	Democratic Veterans in Congress Call for Briefing on Yemen Raid February 3rd, 2017 Moulton, Gallego, and Brown: “We write to express concern and request an urgent briefing.” Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA), Ruben Gallego (D-AZ), and Anthony Brown (D-MD) sent a letter to the Secretary of Defense and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs on the recent U.S. military operation in Yemen. Moulton, Gallego, and Brown serve on the House Armed Services Committee and request an urgent briefing on the decisions that went into the operation. “As Commander in Chief, President Trump has a responsibility to keep our nation and service members safe, and that means making smart national security decisions,” said Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA). “We therefore request a briefing on the decisions and decision-makers involved in the Yemen raid.” “The House Armed Services Committee has a solemn responsibility to learn more about how the chaotic operation in Yemen was planned, approved and executed,” said Rep. Ruben Gallego (AZ-07). “The members of our Committee and the American people deserve more information about how President Trump weighed the risks to our military personnel before and during the raid.” Full text of the letter below: As members of the House Armed Services committee, we write to express concern and request an urgent briefing (in a classified format, if necessary), from both the Office of the Secretary of Defense and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs on the recent U.S. military operation in Yemen. U.S. Central Command and press reports have confirmed U.S. Navy SEAL, Chief Special Warfare Operator William “Ryan” Owens was tragically killed in a January 29 raid on an Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP) compound in Al-Bayda, Yemen. Our hearts go out to Chief Owens family during this incredibly difficult time. Local sources have said that about 30 people, including 10 women and children were also killed which was corroborated by an investigating team from U.S. Central Command. We are particularly concerned about reports that U.S. military officials have indicated the operation was hastily executed, and approved without sufficient intelligence, ground support, or adequate backup. We are also concerned that reporting has indicated the only non-Department of Defense officials involved in approving the operation apart from the President were White House Strategist Steven Bannon and White House Advisor Jared Kushner. This troubling development is consistent with other decisions by the President that marginalize the advice and expert opinion of the intelligence community and wider National Security Council as conceived in the 1947 National Security Act of the United States. Therefore, we are requesting an urgent briefing on the planning process behind the operation, the targeting procedures involved, the extent to which the advice and input of the intelligence community was included, as well as a post-operation civilian casualty assessment. We have no higher responsibility than to keep our nation and our service members safe. Thank you for your cooperation in helping us meet this responsibility. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
02.02.2017	Moulton to Kick-Off Fish 2.0 Forum and Host Economic Development Session in Salem, Monday February 2nd, 2017 Events aimed at spurring economic revitalization in the region Salem, MA – On Monday, February 6th, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) will kick-off the Fish 2.0 New England Business Development Workshop, a free, three-day business development workshop for sustainable seafood business entrepreneurs in the region. Moulton will also host an information session on a national training and capital connections program he worked to bring to the Sixth District. The Fish 2.0 Workshop is an opportunity for area seafood business entrepreneurs to receive training on pitching to investors and guidance on the upcoming Fish 2.0 2017 global business competition. The workshop will take place from February 6-8 at Salem State University. The training and capital connections program, Inner City Capital Connections, is currently offered in 20 major cities across the country. ICCC North Shore will be the first cohort of companies outside of a major city. The program is a 40 hour, free of charge program open to businesses and entrepreneurs. Moulton public schedule for Monday, February 6th: 8:30am-9:30am Opening Remarks and Kick-Off at the Fish 2.0 New England Business Development Workshop Salem State University Marsh Hall Salem, MA 9:30am-11:30am Information Session on the Inner City Capital Connections Program (ICCC North Shore) Enterprise Center 121 Loring Ave Salem, MA To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
01.27.2017	Moulton Condemns Trump’s Executive Order on Refugees January 27th, 2017 Moulton: “I am ashamed that he is our president.” Salem, MA – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) released the following statement in response to President Donald Trump’s executive order on U.S. refugee policy. Moulton says that Trump’s policies put our troops’ lives at risk, empower our enemies, and “do not put America first.” “President Trump is leading our country out of fear instead of facts. His executive orders banning refugees and immigrants from some Muslim majority countries to the United States play right into the hands of our enemies. ISIS has already used his statements to help recruit new suicide bombers, and you can bet Trump’s policies will help inspire attacks against Americans both at home and abroad. “His policies literally put our troops’ lives at risk—I’ve heard this loud and clear when I have visited them overseas. They also prove he has zero understanding of our country’s values and no intention of defending our Constitution. “We are a nation of immigrants, and America is stronger when we welcome the refugees of our enemies. These policies do not put America first. I am ashamed that he is our president,” said Moulton. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
01.26.2017	Moulton to Listen to Constituents Put at Risk by GOP Repeal of the Affordable Care Act January 26th, 2017 Moulton to hold events in Lynn and Gloucester, Saturday February 4th Salem, MA – On Saturday, February 4th, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) will talk with Sixth District constituents who have been put at risk by GOP efforts to repeal the Affordable Care Act. Moulton will begin the day in Lynn at a roundtable discussion with health care professionals and community members, followed by a town hall meeting in Gloucester. Moulton public schedule for Saturday, February 4th: 9:00am Roundtable Discussion with Community Members Put at Risk by GOP Efforts to Repeal of the Affordable Care Act Lynn Community Health Center 269 Union Street Lynn, MA Moulton will hold a roundtable discussion with community members who have been impacted by the Affordable Care Act. 12:30pm Moulton Town Hall Meeting Rose Baker Senior Center 6 Manuel F Lewis Street Gloucester, MA Moulton will talk about the Inauguration of Donald Trump as well as the Republican plans to repeal the Affordable Care Act. He will also take questions from constituents. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
01.25.2017	Moulton, Schrader Introduce Bill to Prohibit Hiring Freeze at the VA January 25th, 2017 Bill will ensure our veterans are not neglected as a result of Trump’s executive order Washington, D.C. – In one of his first acts as President, Donald Trump signed an Executive Order implementing a 90-day hiring freeze across the executive branch, including at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) and Congressman Kurt Schrader (D-OR) introduced legislation today that would prohibit any hiring freeze from specifically affecting the VA. Yesterday, the President’s spokesman, Sean Spicer, doubled down on the hiring freeze specifically at the VA, saying, “I think the VA in particular, if you look at the problems that have plagued people, hiring more people isn’t the answer.” Reports show that there are thousands of vacancies at the VA nationwide including hundreds of Primary Care Providers (PCP) and nurse practitioner vacancies. “President Trump’s hiring freeze will have a severe and lasting impact on the VA’s ability to care for our nation’s veterans,” said Moulton. “All of the progress the VA has made on reducing wait times will come to a screeching halt. The freeze affects all aspects of care from doctors and nurses to schedulers and security guards. Anyone who’s spent time at the VA learning about their problems—as I have and the Trump team has not—knows that filling critical positions and recruiting top talent with a passion for serving our veterans as quickly and efficiently as possible is one of their biggest challenges, even bigger than firing the bad apples. It’s telling of President Trump’s character that on day one in the Oval Office he chose to leave our veterans behind. I am introducing legislation to block this hiring freeze at the VA. Our veterans deserve nothing but the best care.” “One in twelve Oregonians is a veteran, and roughly one fifth of our vets has a service related disability. That’s a lot of people who need and deserve, often times, immediate treatment,” said Schrader. “While I’m always looking for ways to be fiscally responsible, it disturbs me that the President thinks that doing anything to prevent our veterans from receiving necessary care is in anyone’s best interest. Placing this hiring freeze on the VA is an absolutely unacceptable way to treat the men and women who have risked life and limb in the service of our country.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
01.24.2017	Moulton Calls Out Trump for Neglecting Veterans with Federal Hiring Freeze Policy January 24th, 2017 Moulton will introduce legislation to block the severe impact on our veterans Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) released the following statement on the impact President Trump’s imposed federal hiring freeze will have on our nation’s veterans. The Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) is not exempt from Trump’s federal hiring freeze and, Moulton will introduce legislation to block the hiring freeze from severely impacting our veterans. “President Trump’s hiring freeze will have a severe and lasting impact on the VA’s ability to care for our nation’s veterans. All of the progress the VA has made on reducing wait times will come to a screeching halt. The freeze affects all aspects of care from doctors and nurses to schedulers and security guards. “Anyone who’s spent time at the VA learning about their problems—as I have and the Trump team has not—knows that hiring better people as quickly and efficiently as possible is one of their biggest challenges, even bigger than firing the bad apples. It’s telling of President Trump’s character that on day one in the Oval Office he chose to leave our veterans behind. “I am introducing legislation to block this hiring freeze at the VA. Our veterans deserve nothing but the best care,” said Moulton. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
01.20.2017	Congressman Moulton Response to President Trump’s Inaugural Address January 20th, 2017 “I attended the Inauguration today as a demonstration that our nation and our democratic institutions are stronger than any single individual.” Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) attended the Inauguration ceremony of the 45th President of the United States, Donald J. Trump. Moulton released the following statement. “I attended the Inauguration today as a demonstration that our nation and our democratic institutions are stronger than any single individual. What I heard was a divisive message that reaffirms my fears that the next four years are going to be difficult for many, many Americans. “While the peaceful transfer of power is a key part of what makes our country strong, equally important is engagement in our democracy. What is required now is for all of us to turn our disappointments into hopeful action, and work harder than ever over these next four years to protect the American values enshrined in our Constitution,” said Moulton. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
01.18.2017	Moulton to Attend 58th Presidential Inauguration and Women’s March on Washington January 18th, 2017 Moulton to attend “out of respect for the Office of the President, not out of respect for Donald Trump” Washington, D.C. – Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) will attend the 58th Presidential Inauguration this Friday as well as the Women’s March on Washington the following day. Moulton released the below statement about his decision to attend President-elect Donald Trump’s Inauguration. “I will be attending the Inauguration out of respect for the Office of the President, not out of respect for Donald Trump or his policies. This was a difficult decision, as President-elect Trump has shown time and time again that he is unfit to lead and doesn’t respect the office. However, we need to show that our democracy is stronger than a single individual. And let me be clear, as soon as the ceremony ends, I’m going to get back to fighting as hard as I can to protect American values and stand up for hardworking families,” said Moulton. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
01.11.2017	Moulton Urges Senate Colleagues to Block Confirmation of Rex Tillerson January 11th, 2017 “President-Elect Trump has outsourced the job to an oil baron” Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) spoke out about President-elect Donald Trump’s nomination of Rex Tillerson, CEO of Exxon Mobil, to serve as Secretary of State. Moulton released the following statement. “Instead of appointing a serious and respected diplomat to represent our country around the world, someone with the experience to hit the ground running, President-elect Trump has outsourced the job to an oil baron. Rex Tillerson has made a fortune cutting deals with some of the world’s tyrants at the expense of U.S. foreign policy and peace in the Middle East. As a result, I am deeply concerned about Tillerson’s capacity to be our Secretary of State. “At Exxon Mobil, Tillerson actively undermined U.S. foreign policy toward Russia in order to line his own pockets, and his close personal relationship with Putin frankly makes his nomination compromised from the start. If confirmed, we would have to watch Tillerson like a hawk to be sure he has the best interests of our troops and our national security at heart. That should not be a concern for the individual representing our nation abroad,” said Moulton. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
01.10.2017	Moulton Slams Trump for Failing to Name a VA Secretary January 10th, 2017 “This failure is yet another example of Trump’s complete lack of respect for our service, but should come as no surprise from a draft dodger…” Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) released the following statement about President-elect Donald Trump’s lack of nominee to lead the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). The VA is our nation’s second-largest federal department, and Trump has nominated appointees to lead all but two of his Cabinet level departments and agencies. “Despite his promise that he would make veterans issues one of his top priorities, our President-Elect has failed to nominate an individual to lead the VA. This failure is yet another example of Trump’s complete lack of respect for our service, but should come as no surprise from a draft dodger who had five deferments during the Vietnam War. Donald Trump has shown time and time again that he does not respect veterans, from denying that Senator McCain is a war hero to saying veterans with Post Traumatic Stress are weak. It’s clear that we are not one of his priorities. “The VA is our nation’s second-largest federal department and the nation’s largest health care system, and both President Barack Obama and President George W. Bush named their VA appointments in December leading up to their respective inaugurations. It seems that Trump is more concerned about tweeting his support for Putin and his disdain for Meryl Streep than ensuring our veterans receive the care and respect they have earned,” said Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA). To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
01.10.2017	Moulton to Participate in MLK Jr. Day of Service on Monday in Lynn January 10th, 2017 Salem, MA – On Monday, January 16th, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) will participate in the Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Day of Service in Lynn. King famously said, “Life’s most persistent and urgent question is: ‘What are you doing for others?'” As such, each year, Americans across the country answer that question by coming together on MLK Day to serve. In Lynn, Moulton, staff, and volunteers will organize, create, and clean for area nonprofit organizations. Members of the community are welcome to join on Monday. WHO Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) Community members WHAT Martin Luther King, Jr. Day of Service. There will be a range of activities supporting area nonprofits. All ages and abilities welcome. WHEN Monday, January 16, 2017 9:30am – Continental breakfast for volunteers 10:00am – Service begins 12:30pm – Pizza lunch WHERE Washington Street Baptist Church 256 Washington Street Lynn, MA To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
01.08.2017	Moulton Calls for Independent Commission to Investigate Russian Interference in Election January 8th, 2017 “Russia’s direct interference in our elections undermines the very foundations of our democracy” Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) released the below statement regarding a newly declassified report from the Office of the Director of National Intelligence. The report provides evidence that confirms Russian hacking and meddling in order to influence the outcome of the 2016 electoral process. “This report provides hard evidence from our nation’s top national security agencies that Putin personally ordered an ‘influence campaign’ aimed at helping Donald Trump get elected President,” said Moulton. “Russia’s direct interference in our elections undermines the very foundations of our democracy, and it is disturbing that our President-elect has refused to acknowledge this. By refusing to accept the evidence, Donald Trump is endangering our citizens, service members, diplomats, and intelligence professionals. He is not acting in the national security interests of the United States. Americans deserve to know the truth, and that’s why I co-sponsored the Protecting our Democracy Act, legislation to create an independent, bipartisan, and public commission to investigate Russian interference and develop policy to prevent this from happening again.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
01.03.2017	Moulton’s Statement on House Resolution 11 January 3rd, 2017 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) issued a statement and explanation of his vote on House Resolution 11 – Objecting to United Nations Security Council Resolution 2334 as an obstacle to Israeli-Palestinian peace, and for other purposes. His statement is included below. “For decades, the Israeli-Palestinian conflict has endured despite the efforts of leaders on both sides and throughout the world to find peace. Undeniably, actions taken by both sides throughout this long, sad history have contributed to making peace more difficult to achieve. These include the continued expansion of Israeli settlements and the continued Palestinian attacks on Israeli citizens, to name just two. When evaluating any action on the conflict, from military operations to political resolutions, it is critical to keep this broader context in mind: neither side is innocent despite their professed pursuits of peace. “The recent United Nations Security Council Resolution (UNSC Resolution 2334), from which the United States abstained, is an example of a one-sided view of the conflict. Although it rightly criticizes the continued expansion of Israeli settlements, it gives no mention to the continued, and recently intensified, violence by Palestinians and terrorists against innocent Israeli citizens. Biased or one-sided resolutions like this only move us further away from the shared goal of reaching resolution between the parties of this two-sided conflict. “That is why I voted for House Resolution 11, disapproving of the UN resolution. H Res 11 rightly emphasizes that the only path to a lasting peace between the Israeli and the Palestinian people is a durable two-state solution where both sides can safely live side-by-side. Violence must cease. “I also reaffirm my belief, shared by a number of prominent Israeli voices, foreign policy experts, legal scholars, and successive U.S. administrations, including the Obama administration, that the continued expansion of settlements is detrimental to the cause of peace. Settlement construction is an attempt to alter the facts on the ground to the point where a reasonable two-state arrangement is more and more difficult to achieve. Prime Minister Netanyahu has been clear, calling his government “more committed to settlements than any in Israel’s history.” “Furthermore, in yet another disturbing foreign policy move, President-elect Trump has appointed several senior officials who do not support long-standing efforts, supported by both Republicans and Democrats in Congress, towards a two-state solution. “I call upon the Trump administration to take the cause of peace far more seriously than it has to date. Under President Obama, the U.S. has concluded a $38 billion memorandum of understanding that exceeds any military assistance package the U.S. has provided any country, and has strengthened critical missile defense, counter-terrorism and intelligence cooperation programs. Furthermore, the Obama administration’s record supporting Israel at the United Nations has been stronger than any previous administration, both Republican and Democrat. This was the first time the Obama administration declined to exercise a veto on a UN Security Council resolution critical of Israeli actions, whereas administrations since 1967 have together voted for or abstained from more than 50 such resolutions. “As a Marine infantry officer, I also know the importance of providing civil security as the basis for making political progress in a conflict zone first hand. This is why I have and will continue to support U.S. security assistance to Israel through my role on the House Armed Services Committee. I will also continue to support the U.S. Security Coordination Mission that seeks to train and better enable the Palestinian Authority to more effectively police their own territories. “Through these and other measures, I will continue to support efforts to achieve this elusive peace however I can. The Israeli and Palestinian people deserve nothing less,” said Moulton. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
01.03.2017	Moulton Sworn-in to 115th Congress January 3rd, 2017 In second term, Moulton committed to spurring economic development and standing up for veterans and working families Washington, D.C. – Today, in the U.S. Capitol, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) was sworn-in to the 115th Congress to represent the Sixth District of Massachusetts. Moulton began the day by volunteering with staff and supporters at the Capital Area Food Bank in Washington, D.C. He also held an open house in his office. “Serving the Sixth District is one of the great honors of my life,” said Moulton. “Our region has so much to offer, and our state is a leader in finding innovative solutions to national challenges. During the town hall events I’ve held in all 39 cities and towns across our district, I’ve heard about the issues that matter most to my constituents, and I remain committed to spurring economic development, standing up for our veterans, and ensuring that all our kids have access to a quality education. We have more work to do, and I pledge to continue to work with both Republicans and Democrats to ensure Massachusetts remains at the forefront of progress and opportunity.” During his first term in Congress, Moulton made listening to his constituents a top priority, along with standing up for veterans and working families, and spurring economic development in the region. Held more town halls than any Democrat in the U.S. House and Senate: Moulton held a town hall in each of the 39 cities and towns in the Sixth District, more town hall meetings than any Democrat in either the House or Senate. Recovered $700K for Sixth District Constituents: Moulton’s office closed over 1,850 constituent cases, working with 60+ federal agencies, state, and local partners and other organizations, and recovered more than $700,000 for constituents through casework. Introduced 10 bills, three passed the House, two signed into law: This Congress, Moulton introduced ten bills, five of which were focused on improving veterans’ lives, and nine of which had bipartisan support. Three of Moulton’s bills passed the U.S. House, a total which no other Freshman House Democrat has surpassed. Moulton’s Faster Care for Veterans billand the Essex River Dredging bill were signed into law last month. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or find the Congressman on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
01.02.2017	Moulton Names Jeremy Joseph as Chief of Staff January 2nd, 2017 Joseph brings experience as Marine veteran, advisor to Vice President Biden, and national service leader Washington, D.C. – Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) named Marine veteran and national service leader Jeremy Joseph as his Chief of Staff. Joseph joins the staff this week and will be based in Moulton’s Washington D.C. office. “I am proud of all my team has done to serve the Sixth District over the past two years, and I look forward to continuing to work hard on behalf of our community,” said Moulton. “I am incredibly grateful that Jeremy will take on the task of leading our office as we continually improve our services, drive innovation into government, and stand up for our values. Jeremy’s background and experience, including his service as a Marine and as deputy counsel to Vice President Joe Biden, demonstrate his commitment to the policies and values I came to Washington to promote and protect. Jeremy will bring extraordinary leadership skills to this role, and his perspective on issues facing hard-working families, his government and private sector experience, and service to our country will make him a great asset to our team. I look forward to working with him to serve the Sixth District of Massachusetts.” “I am honored to join Congressman Moulton and his team as we continue to fight for the issues that matter to our community and work to promote economic opportunity and security in the district,” said Joseph. “In his first term, Rep. Moulton succeeded in rising above partisan gridlock for families, veterans, and on critical matters of national security. On tough issues, Rep. Moulton demonstrated strong leadership and moral courage to do the right thing, even when it was difficult. I am proud to join this outstanding team and look forward to serving the Sixth District.” Joseph graduated from Dartmouth College with a degree in government and earned his law degree at Georgetown University Law Center. During his service in the Marine Corps, Joseph led intelligence operations for deployed Marine and Navy forces in the Middle East and served as a liaison to the U.S. Senate. As an attorney in private practice, Joseph advised Fortune 500 companies and government contractors. Joseph returned to public service in 2013 as Deputy Counsel to Vice President Joe Biden where he was engaged on a number of policy issues, including the Administration’s efforts to support working families, gun violence prevention, labor unions, and voting rights. In 2015, Joseph was appointed by President Barack Obama to serve as General Counsel at the Corporation for National and Community Service (CNCS). CNCS is a $1.1 billion federal grant-making agency that powers AmeriCorps and the Social Innovation Fund programs all across the country. He lives in Washington, D.C. with his wife and two young daughters. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or find the Congressman on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
12.16.2016	Moulton’s Faster Care for Veterans Bill Signed into Law December 16th, 2016 Bipartisan bill will bring VA healthcare into the 21st century Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton’s (D-MA) bipartisan Faster Care for Veterans Act of 2016 was signed by President Barack Obama and became law. Moulton introduced the legislation with Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) and Senators Joni Ernst (R-IA) and Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) to improve access to veteran health care. The bill passed the Senate by unanimous vote last Saturday. The Faster Care for Veterans Act will make critical improvements to veteran health care by utilizing 21st century technology. The legislation requires the VA to pilot an online self-scheduling app for VA patients, equipping the VA with the same state-of-the-art technology enjoyed by patients in the private sector to improve the quality of veteran health care services. Moulton and McMorris Rodgers’ legislation will allow patients to self-schedule appointments from their smart phones or computers with the click of a button. “Our veterans deserve the best health care in the world, but for far too long they have been underserved by outdated systems that make it hard to simply schedule an appointment,” said Moulton. “President Obama signed our bill into law today, and veterans across the nation will soon have the ability to use online, self-scheduling technology to make appointments. I’ve heard from thousands of veterans across the country that this will make a major difference, and I’m grateful to Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers and Senators Klobuchar and Ernst for their efforts to get our legislation through the House and Senate. Improving veteran services is one of my top priorities, and I thank my colleagues for putting country over politics to make a difference for our veterans.” “Today is a victory for our veterans and a big step toward bringing the VA into the 21st Century and back to being focused on its sole mission – serving veterans,” said Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05). “I’m grateful for my colleagues’ support of this legislation, and I look forward to seeing the very real impact it will have on giving our veterans easier access to the care they’ve earned.” “Our veterans shouldn’t be forced to wait weeks on end for an appointment at the VA,” said Senator Joni Ernst. “The Faster Care for Veterans Act will allow veterans to schedule and confirm their appointments at VA centers online, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Modernizing the appointment process means quicker and more accessible service. I am pleased that this new law will help to uphold our commitment to provide quality and timely care for our nation’s veterans.” “Excessive wait times can put veterans’ lives at risk, but state-of-the art technology that makes it easier to schedule appointments already exists and is being used in other hospital systems,” said Senator Amy Klobuchar. “Our veterans have earned the right to use the same technology to schedule their medical appointments without unnecessary red tape and delays. This bipartisan bill will take an important step forward in ensuring that our brave men and women who have sacrificed so much have access to the medical care they need and deserve.” Last February, Moulton posted a video on his official Facebook page of District Representative and Army Veteran, Dennis Magnasco, attempting to make an appointment at the VA, but he could not get past the automated answering service. The video, “Why Veterans Need H.R. 4352 The Faster Care for Veterans Act,” went viral and has been viewed nearly 1.5 million times with 35,000 shares and thousands of comments of support. Moulton has made veterans’ care a top priority during this congress. In June 2015, Moulton introduced his first package of legislation: The VA Education Training and Sustainability (VETS) Act, four bills aimed at improving the talent pipeline at Veterans Affairs medical facilities across the country. In this Congress, Moulton passed three bills through the House and has had one bill signed into law; a total which no other Freshman House Democrat has surpassed. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
12.13.2016	Essex Dredging Bill Heads to President Obama’s Desk December 13th, 2016 Rep. Moulton, and Sens. Warren, Markey push bill through the House and Senate Salem, MA – The U.S. Senate passed the Water Resource Development Act of 2016 (WRDA) with Congressman Seth Moulton’s (D-MA) provision to allow dredging in the Essex River, and the bill is now heading to President Obama’s desk. Moulton advocated for the Essex River dredging project to be included in WRDA, ensuring the project has the federal criteria it needs in order to occur, and Massachusetts Senators Elizabeth Warren and Edward J. Markey were instrumental in helping get the bill through the Senate this session. “Dredging the Essex River is critically important to public safety, and I’m proud that we were successful in our efforts to include this dredging project in the final Water Resources Development bill heading to the President’s Desk,” said Moulton. “This project will make the Essex River channel more navigable, ensuring a safer environment and spurring local job growth while being conscious of the need to protect this valuable part of our environment. Harbormaster Silva, Town Administrator Zubricki, and U.S. Coast Guard officials have been tireless advocates for this dredging project. I thank them, along with the dedication of Senators Markey and Warren, for their advocacy.” “I’m very glad this bill contains several key provisions we fought for to help Massachusetts’ communities improve their water infrastructure,” Senator Warren said. “The kinds of projects supported by this bill are good for families and good for economic growth across the Commonwealth. That’s why I’m particularly disappointed that Republicans refused to require infrastructure projects funded by US taxpayers use American-made materials — a commonsense rule that would have supported American jobs and further strengthened our economy here at home.” “We worked hard to ensure that the Essex River Dredging project was included in the final legislation, and I am pleased that this bill provides the Town of Essex the tools it needs to ensure residents can enjoy its waterways safely. I thank Congressman Moulton and Senator Warren for their partnership on this important issue, and I applaud Town Administrator Zubricki and Harbormaster Silva for their leadership,” said Senator Edward J. Markey (D-Mass). Moulton introduced the Essex River Jobs and Recreation Act this year to allow for re-designated boundaries around the federal channel in order to eliminate encroachment issues from piers and docks, freeing the town to dredge the upper part of the river as it approaches the downtown Causeway and allowing for the safe passage of watercraft. The annual WRDA bill authorizes all water resources development projects carried out by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. The bill now goes to President Barack Obama’s desk to be signed into law. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or find the Congressman on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
12.09.2016	Relocation of Army Corps of Engineers Headquarters to Hanscom AFB Approved by House December 9th, 2016 Moulton: “This decision will save taxpayer dollars and sustain jobs for our constituents.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – The U.S. House of Representatives passed legislation yesterday that approves the relocation of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers’ New England (USACE NE) Headquarters to Hanscom Air Force Base. The legislation was included as part of the Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation Act (WIIN Act). Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA), and his staff worked closely with the USACE NE to identify the steps necessary to authorize the relocation to Hanscom. Renovation and maintenance of the facility at Hanscom will be funded by existing funding already included in the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers’ budget. “I’m proud that the Army Corps of Engineers has moved its headquarters to Hanscom Air Force Base. This decision will save taxpayer dollars and sustain jobs for our constituents. It’s another example of how Massachusetts is a leader in national defense,” said Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA). The USACE NE Headquarters currently leases a facility in Concord, MA. They have sought to renovate former Air Force Research Laboratory buildings on Hanscom Air Force Base to be used for their headquarters, with the goal of saving government funding to taxpayers in Massachusetts and throughout New England over the long-term. Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) worked closely with leaders on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, as well as with Congresswomen Niki Tsongas (D-MA) and Katherine Clark (D-MA), to ensure language authorizing the relocation was ultimately included in the final WIIN Act. Senator Ed Markey secured authorization for the relocation in the Senate version of the bill. “This is a win all around, giving the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers modernized workspace, bringing about long-term cost savings and further solidifying Hanscom Air Force Base as a critically important facility for our military,” said Congresswoman Niki Tsongas (D-MA). “I thank everyone involved for helping identify the steps necessary and for ensuring the authorization was included in the overall bill, and I look forward to seeing some far-reaching benefits take hold.” “I’m thankful for Congresswoman Tsongas’ leadership in ensuring a modernized headquarters for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers,” said Congresswoman Katherine Clark (D-MA). “Hanscom is a national example of the Commonwealth’s strength as a center for innovation and cutting edge technologies.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or find the Congressman on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ####
12.07.2016	Moulton to Host Inaugural Sixth District Economic Development Federal Resource Forum December 7th, 2016 Moulton will discuss impacts of Trump Administration on area businesses Washington, D.C. – On December 13th, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) will host a Sixth District Economic Development Federal Resource Forum with senior representatives from 13 federal agencies. At the forum, Moulton will discuss the impacts of a Trump Administration on our local businesses and regional economic development. The public is invited to join Moulton to learn about federal resources to support efforts in small business assistance, transportation and housing issues, coastal resiliency, and technological innovation. Many local leaders will participate including: Mayor Sefatia Romeo Theken of Gloucester, Mayor Donna Holaday of Newburyport, Mayor Judith Flanagan Kennedy of Lynn, Mayor Ted Bettencourt of Peabody, Mayor Kim Driscoll of Salem, Mayor Michael Cahill of Beverly, and Mayor Ken Gray of Amesbury. The 13 federal agencies present will include the U.S. Department of Energy, U.S. Economic Development Administration, U.S. Department of Labor, U.S. Department of Agriculture, U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, U.S. Small Business Administration/SBIR, U.S. Department of Transportation, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, U.S. Commercial Service, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, U.S. General Services Administration, and the U.S. Department of Commerce NOAA. EVENT Sixth District Economic Development Federal Resource Forum DATE Tuesday, December 13th TIME 10:00AM – 12:00PM PLACE Peabody City Hall 24 Lowell Street Peabody, MA RSVP http://bit.ly/2fIPnRj To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or find the Congressman on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
12.06.2016	House Passes Moulton’s Bill to Improve Access to Veteran Health Care December 6th, 2016 Moulton’s bipartisan bill will utilize private sector technology to bring VA healthcare into the 21st century Washington, D.C. – Today, the House passed Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) and Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) bipartisan veterans bill, H.R. 4352, the Faster Care for Veterans Act. This innovative piece of legislation is designed to make critical improvements to veteran health care by utilizing 21st century technology. The bill would allow patients to self-schedule appointments from their smart phones or computers with the click of a button. Moulton has now passed three bills through the House; a total which no other Freshman House Democrat has surpassed. “Our nation’s veterans deserve the best healthcare in the world, period,” said Moulton. “As a Member of Congress, I declined congressional health care and pledged to receive my care at the VA. I receive excellent service from terrific doctors and nurses at my home VA facility in Massachusetts, but I also know that for far too long, our veterans have been underserved by outdated systems. It doesn’t have to be this way, and today I’m proud that the House came together to pass my bipartisan bill. This legislation will require the VA to use innovative technology in the private sector and drastically improve access to healthcare for our veterans.” Self-scheduling technologies have been widely successful in the private sector by reducing the number of missed or cancelled appointments and saving our health system money and creating a better experience for patients and doctors. Moulton’s bill seeks to connect private sector innovation to the Department of Veterans Affairs by requiring the VA to pilot an online self-scheduling app for VA patients. This legislation will equip the VA with the same state-of-the-art technology enjoyed by patients in the private sector to improve the quality of veteran health care services. In February, Moulton posted a video on his official Facebook page of District Representative and Army Veteran, Dennis Magnasco, attempting to make an appointment at the VA, but he could not get past the automated answering service. The video went viral and has been viewed nearly 1.5 million times with 35,000 shares and thousands of comments of support. Moulton has made veterans’ care a top priority during this congress. In June 2015, Moulton introduced his first package of legislation: The VA Education Training and Sustainability (VETS) Act, four bills aimed at improving the talent pipeline at Veterans Affairs medical facilities across the country. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or find the Congressman on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
12.06.2016	House Passes National Defense Bill with Moulton Amendments December 6th, 2016 NDAA will strengthen military efforts to defeat ISIL, hold Iran accountable and support jobs and innovation in Massachusetts Washington, D.C. – The U.S. House of Representatives passed the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for fiscal year 2017, to provide critical military personnel funding and resources for our troops. The bill includes several amendments introduced by Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) which will strengthen our counter-ISIL political strategy; require the President to notify Congress with an action plan when Iran conducts a ballistic missile launch; and reauthorize the Afghan Special Immigrant Visa (SIV) program for Afghans who risked their lives working with the U.S. in Afghanistan. “As a member of the House Armed Services Committee, It is my responsibility to ensure that we support our troops serving on the front lines and our veterans here at home,” said Moulton. “The amendments I proposed sought to do just that, and I’m proud that this legislation will implement a comprehensive political strategy in our military’s efforts to defeat ISIS, ensure that we are holding Iran accountable, and reauthorize the Afghan SIV program to stand with hundreds of Afghans who put their lives on the line, not just for their country, but for ours. This bipartisan bill will also fund necessary upgrades at Hanscom Air Force Base and MIT Lincoln Labs, supporting jobs and ensuring that Massachusetts remains a national leader in advanced defense research. While it does not contain every provision I fought for, it moves our country forward and strengthens our national defense.” The below amendments led by Moulton were included in the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017: Anti-ISIL Campaign Strategy: Moulton’s amendment requires the Departments of State and Defense to implement a comprehensive counter-ISIL strategy that includes clear military and political objectives for Iraq and Syria with rigorous reporting requirements. Iran Ballistic Missile Launch Reporting Requirement: Moulton’s amendment requires the President to conduct an intelligence assessment and officially notify Congress within two weeks whenever Iran conducts a ballistic missile launch or test and inform the Congress as to actions the President will take in response, including efforts to pursue additional sanctions. Moulton also worked to secure provisions that will advance Massachusetts’ role as a leader in our national defense efforts. As part of the NDAA, MIT Lincoln Labs, located at Hanscom Air Force Base, has been authorized an additional $48.27 million in fiscal year 2017 to modernize and upgrade their research facilities, as well as $265 million over the next five years. The bill also supports the JSTARS program managed at Hanscom Air Force base, an important communication and command platform for our combat forces, and authorizes $10.96 million requested by the Air Force to upgrade Hanscom’s Vandenberg gate, making it safer for base personnel and visitors. This year, Moulton has been an outspoken advocate for the Afghan SIV program. He introduced a provision to our National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) to remove the narrowing of U.S. resettlement eligibility requirements to include Afghans who risked their lives working for the U.S. in Afghanistan. During a speech on the house floor, Moulton advocated to give these Afghan allies a chance to stay alive, rather than abandon them to the same enemies they united with the U.S. to destroy. His amendment was endorsed by The New York Times Editorial Board, but the eligibility restrictions remain in the final bill. “The Afghan SIV program’s four year reauthorization is certainly a step in the right direction, but with only 1,500 new visas and added eligibility restrictions, we are still leaving behind at least 5,000 people who have risked their lives for us,” said Moulton. “I commit to continuing to push for more visas to be added because I would not be here today without the courageous translators who worked with me to carry out our mission in Iraq.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or find the Congressman on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
12.06.2016	Representatives Moulton, Royce Announce 2016 Congressional App Challenge Winners December 6th, 2016 Members promote the importance of coding and STEM by honoring students from 123 congressional districts across the United States. WASHINGTON, DC – Today over 120 Members of the U.S. House of Representatives will announce the winners of the 2016 Congressional App Challenge. Over the last four months thousands of students coded original apps as part of district-wide competitions hosted by Members of the House. Over 2,150 students participated in the 15-week regional competitions. They submitted over 650 original student-created apps, a 30% expansion in participation from the first official Challenge in 2015. “Computer science education is something that everyone can and should get behind. I’m incredibly proud to have co-chaired this bipartisan effort, which saw participation from one Independent, fifty-nine Republicans, and sixty-three Democrats. Representatives from every political viewpoint rallied around this effort to invest in our kids, and we need more of that type of bipartisan cooperation in Congress today,” said Congressional Co-Chair Seth Moulton (D-MA.). “Computer science skills are critical to the jobs of the future and the Congressional App Challenge fosters those skills in schools around the country. Seeing what these students are capable of creating when given the encouragement to do so is truly inspirational,” said Congressional Co-Chair Ed Royce (R-CA.). In all, 123 Congressional districts across 33 states hosted app challenges for their student constituents. Congressional participation was widespread and remarkably bipartisan. The Congressional App Challenge will invite winners from across the country to showcase their apps to the Members of Congress and members of the tech community at #HouseOfCode, a DC-based reception to be held in April of 2017. Their work will be featured for one year on the permanent display in the U.S. Capitol Building, and on the House.gov website. Winning students will also be awarded a portion of $50,000 in credits, generously donated by Amazon Web Services. “Few institutions have the reach that the House of Representatives does,” said Rhianon Anderson, Executive Director of the Challenge. “We’re thrilled that Members of Congress from every corner of the country are leveraging that reach to inspire their student constituents to learn how to code. This is a life-changing opportunity for many kids.” Winning students and their apps will be listed on the Congressional App Challenge website, under “2016 Winners,” beginning at noon, EST. Congratulations to all the students who participated! ###
12.01.2016	House Democrats Pass Key Leadership Reforms December 1st, 2016 Washington, DC – Today, House Democrats passed two motions, introduced by Reps. Seth Moulton (MA-06), Ruben Gallego (AZ-07), and Kathleen Rice (NY-04), requiring key leadership positions to be elected by Members of the Caucus, instead of appointed by the Democratic Leader. The Caucus will now directly elect the chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, as well as three co-chairs of the Democratic Policy and Communications Committee. Reps. Moulton, Gallego, and Rice issued the following joint statement: “In the wake of the 2016 election, it is more clear than ever that the Democratic Caucus needs to bring more voices into leadership, with new ideas that will help us to forge a strong path forward, evolve as a Party and earn back the support of the American people. “The conversations we have had over the past few weeks about the future of our Caucus were difficult and contentious, but also necessary and inspiring. As a result, our Members worked together to select a leadership team and make dramatic reforms that will increase the diversity of our leadership team and make our leadership accountable to our Members. “In order to be successful, all Members of the Democratic Caucus need to play a role in recruitment, messaging, fundraising and strategy. The changes adopted today are a true victory that will help us to empower our Members and make our Caucus stronger. “Democrats can’t afford to back down in the face of a Donald Trump presidency and the regressive agenda he stands for. Today’s outcome was a good first step towards our goal of reclaiming the majority in 2018.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or find the Congressman on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
11.30.2016	Moulton’s Advocacy Key to Extending Program for Afghan Allies November 30th, 2016 Moulton: “I commit to continuing to push for more visas.” Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) praised provisions in the final version of the Fiscal Year 2017 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) that would reauthorize the Afghan special immigrant visa (SIV) program for four years, and he committed to continuing to advocate for an increase in visas made available for our Afghan allies supporting American troops abroad. “I’m proud to stand with thousands of Afghans who risked their lives working for the U.S. and putting their lives on the line, not just for their country, but for ours,” said Moulton. “The Afghan SIV program’s four-year reauthorization is certainly a step in the right direction, but with only 1,500 new visas and added eligibility restrictions, we are still leaving behind at least 5,000 people who have risked their lives for us. I commit to continuing to push for more visas to be added because I would not be here today without the courageous translators who worked with me to carry out our mission in Iraq.” Moulton has been a vocal advocate for reauthorizing the Afghan SIV program. This year, he introduced a provision to our National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) to remove the narrowing of U.S. resettlement eligibility requirements to include Afghans who risked their lives working for the U.S. in Afghanistan and face well-documented death threats due to their work. During a speech on the house floor in support of his amendment, Moulton said we need to give these Afghan allies a chance to stay alive, rather than abandon them to the same enemies they united with the U.S. to destroy. His amendment was endorsed by The New York Times Editorial Board in an editorial piece. Congress will vote on the NDAA in the next couple of days. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or find the Congressman on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
11.29.2016	Moulton Endorses Congressman Tim Ryan for Leader of House Democrats November 29th, 2016 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) endorsed Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) for Democratic Leader and released the following statement. “The American people sent a very clear message on November 8th that the status quo is not working. And now, the Democratic Party must respond. To take on the new challenges posed by President-elect Donald Trump, we Democrats in the House of Representatives must put ourselves in the best possible position to take back the majority in 2018. Last week, our Caucus rightly decided to take time to listen to our colleagues and constituents before rushing into leadership elections with no new plan or new strategy. I have been impressed with how seriously our colleagues have taken this responsibility. Members from every corner of our Caucus have identified reforms that can empower our Members, hold our leaders accountable, and enable us to find the transformational ideas that will make a real difference for all Americans. This conversation has been tough, and it must continue, but our Caucus will be stronger because of it. “Having reviewed the strategy and vision of our candidates for Democratic Leader, I am proud to announce my support for Tim Ryan of Ohio. Tim represents a new generation of leaders who are ready to make real change, rather than renew the status quo, and the future of our party demands that kind of leadership now more than ever. “I am quite new to politics, but I spent several years as a platoon commander in the Marines where my job description was simple: “You are responsible for everything your platoon does or fails to do.” We need that same ethic of responsibility in Congress, and I believe Tim is ready to provide it. The fresh, inclusive, and accountable leadership Tim offers will put us in the best position to fight for working families and regain the trust of the American people.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or find Congressman Moulton on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
11.15.2016	Moulton Strongly Condemns President-Elect Trump’s Appointment of Steve Bannon November 15th, 2016 Washington, D.C. – Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) released the following statement in response to President-elect Donald Trump’s appointment of Steve Bannon as White House Chief Strategist. Moulton also joined his colleagues in sending a letter to President-elect Trump requesting that he rescind his appointment, included below. “On the Wednesday after the election, I agreed with President Obama that President-elect Trump deserved a presumption of good faith. But it hasn’t even been a full week and Trump has appointed Steve Bannon as his Chief White House Strategist. “In his work as the Executive Chairman of Breitbart News, Bannon promoted stories that fueled hate and violence against people who are different from him. This is a man who has committed his life to advancing anti-Semitism, xenophobia, and racism. And this is a decision that empowers hatred at the highest levels of our government. Every American should be appalled by this appointment. “If President-elect Trump is truly committed to healing our nation and representing all Americans, he will act to remove Bannon immediately. I condemn this appointment in the strongest terms, and joined with my colleagues in sending a letter to President-elect Trump urging him to reconsider,” said Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA). Letter below: Dear President-elect Trump: Immediately following your victory, many Americans were optimistic and hopeful that you would take the steps necessary to unify our country following the divisive and contentious election. In your election night speech you said, “Now it’s time for America to bind the wounds of division. It is time for us to come together as one united people.” Unfortunately, your appointment of Stephen Bannon, whose ties to the White Nationalist movement have been well-documented, directly undermines your ability to unite the country. As elected representatives of millions of Americans from diverse backgrounds, religions, and ethnicities, we strongly urge you to reconsider your decision to appoint Mr. Bannon to White House Chief Strategist. Since the election there have been a number of incidents across the country in which minorities, including Muslim Americans, African Americans, Hispanic Americans, and Jewish Americans, have been the targets of violence, harassment and intimidation. Mr. Bannon’s appointment sends the wrong message to people who have engaged in those types of activities, indicating that they will not only be tolerated, but endorsed by your Administration. Millions of Americans have expressed fear and concern about how they will be treated by the Trump Administration and your appointment of Mr. Bannon only exacerbates and validates their concerns. As the Executive Chairman of Breitbart News, Mr. Bannon repeatedly and aggressively pushed stories that promote anti-Semitism, xenophobia, and racism. During an interview last summer, Mr. Bannon bragged that Breitbart was “the platform for the alt-right,” a movement that upholds White Nationalism while strongly rejecting diversity in any form. Under Mr. Bannon’s leadership, Breitbart has referred to a leading Republican who opposed your election as a “Renegade Jew,” suggested “Young Muslims in the West are a ticking time bomb,” declared that the “Confederate flag proclaims a glorious heritage,” and praised the alt-right as a “smarter” version of “old-school racist skinheads.” Disturbingly, leading white nationalists like former KKK Grand Dragon David Duke, American Nazi Party Chairman Rocky J. Suhadya, Richard Spencer, Peter Brimelow, and Brad Griffin have praised the news of Mr. Bannon’s appointment. We believe it should concern you that civil rights groups, including the Anti-Defamation League and the Southern Poverty Law Center, are widely opposed to Mr. Bannon’s appointment. We strongly believe that Mr. Bannon’s appointment will not allow the country to heal and come together as one. As one of your top advisors, the White House chief strategist will help set the tone for your administration. The person in this role must be prepared to serve the interests of all Americans, not those of a select few. Once again, we strongly urge you to rescind this appointment immediately and build a diverse White House staff who are committed to the core American values of inclusiveness, diversity and tolerance. ###
11.08.2016	Congressman Moulton to Host 2nd Annual Veterans Day Town Hall in Marblehead November 8th, 2016 Veterans and community members invited to join Moulton next Friday Salem, MA – Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) will host his 2nd annual Veterans Day Town Hall next Friday, November 11th, at 11:00AM at Abbot Hall in Marblehead. Moulton hosted the nation’s first Veterans Day Town Hall last year, and more than 150 veterans and non-veterans alike traveled from across Massachusetts to share their stories, and to listen. Moulton has said that hosting this event was the single most meaningful he has done as a Member of Congress. Moulton’s Veterans Day Town Hall was inspired by author Sebastian Junger who has written about the importance of veterans of all wars sharing their experiences with their communities. Over the past year, Moulton has worked to make Vets Town Hall a national initiative for communities across the country. To learn more about Moulton’s work, visit www.vetstownhall.org. WHO Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) Veterans Community members * This event is open to the public WHAT Veterans Day Town Hall WHERE Abbot Hall 188 Washington Street Marblehead, MA WHEN Friday, November 11, 2016 11:00 AM – 2:00 PM RSVP Please RSVP here. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or find the Congressman on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
11.08.2016	Congressman Moulton Votes Yes on Question 2 November 8th, 2016 Moulton: “Voting no is for the status quo, but clearly the status quo hasn’t worked. It hasn’t done enough for our kids, and it hasn’t changed the minds of our politicians. I believe voting yes has the potential to do both.” Salem, MA – Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) announced today that he voted yes on Question 2 and released the following statement: “Education is the single most important investment that we can make in our nation’s future. It’s also fundamental to the principle of equality enshrined in our Constitution: every kid should be able to realize the American dream. I am proud to represent a state that has the best public school system in the country. By nearly every metric, Massachusetts students outperform their counterparts. Our success is a tribute to the incredible teachers – like my sister Eliza – who are dedicating their careers to educating and inspiring tomorrow’s leaders. “Even still, there remain too many kids who are not being well-served by our schools. In fact, Massachusetts has one of the largest disparities between high- and low-income students. If we truly are a country of equal opportunity, then where you are born, what color your skin is, how well-known your family is, what religion you practice, or how much money your parents have shouldn’t matter when it comes to the education you can receive. But we all know that, today in Massachusetts, that is not the case. “Sadly, we are now locked in a contentious ballot debate about how to fix this, and it’s a shame how vicious, partisan, and often devoid of facts this argument has become. Who’s to blame? People on both sides, for sure, but we wouldn’t be in this mess if Governor Baker and the Legislature had done their jobs. Proposals and compromises were laid on the table, but our elected leaders didn’t lead. They’re the ones we should ultimately thank for this expensive, contentious campaign. And by failing to do their jobs, they threw this decision to the rest of us. “It doesn’t help that Question 2 is poorly written, a choice between two imperfect options. The ballot question should have been designed to only address the cities where the cap is an issue, and not create controversy in the majority of towns in Massachusetts – and in my district – where there are no charter schools or where towns are nowhere near the cap. For the cities where this ballot question does matter, the fundamental issue is funding. “In Massachusetts, education funding follows the student. Although we have never funded the transition of kids when they move towns or go to private or parochial schools, we made a commitment as a Commonwealth to do so for charters when our Democratic legislature established the program. One thing I’ve heard loud and clear from the teachers’ unions is that the real issue is with this reimbursement. Again, Governor Baker and the Legislature have failed our kids by refusing to fully fund the mandated reimbursements. For that reason, in many ways Question 2 boils down to this: which option will force our elected leaders to act? “Voting no is for the status quo, but clearly the status quo hasn’t worked. It hasn’t done enough for our kids, and it hasn’t changed the minds of our politicians. I believe voting yes has the potential to do both. “For thousands of Massachusetts families, particularly in the lowest-performing school districts in the state, charter schools have given them access to a better education than their neighborhood school. They are serving a higher percentage of low-income and minority students than the state average and are yielding better academic results. Numerous academic studies have shown that Massachusetts charters outperform district schools, even after you correct for slight disparities in enrollment. They are also more closely supervised, though the means of supervision is different. I’ve personally seen the positive impact charters, such as KIPP Academy in Lynn and the Bentley School in Salem, can have on kids, families, and communities. “Let’s not forget that the rich and the lucky are all set–they can move to better school districts, pay for private or parochial school, or win the lottery to get into a high-performing charter or the METCO program. It’s disproportionately poor and minority kids that are losing out, which is why polling shows these communities are the strongest supporters of Question 2. “Charter schools are not the only answer to the vast achievement gap that exists in our state and our country. Marginally raising the cap on charter schools is not a substitute for the hard work we must do to improve the district schools that educate the majority of our children. But charter schools have proven that they deserve to be part of the solution. The thousands of kids and families on charter school waiting lists are there for a reason. “Given how terrible this debate has become, I know many fellow voters feel like they can’t wait for it to be over. Choosing between two bad options is never a happy choice, which is why I took so much time to examine this issue. After dozens of meetings with passionate citizens on both side of this debate, I’m comforted by the fact that, while each supports a different path forward, everyone is committed to the same fundamental goal: a better future for our kids. Regardless of the result, we need to keep up the pressure on Governor Baker and the Legislature to do their jobs. “Don’t be satisfied with the status quo: educational opportunity is not equal, and it’s failing our most vulnerable kids. Support innovation: we can do better, and that requires change. And support our teachers well enough (starting with paying them a salary that reflects their enormous contributions) so that this doesn’t continue to be a divide between teachers in our district schools and the kids and families on charter school waiting lists. “Regardless of whether or not Question 2 passes, it will be on the Baker administration, Legislature, teachers’ unions, and charter school advocates to come together and find a better path forward. Our kids deserve nothing less.” For more information about Congressman Seth Moulton visit our website or connect with the Congressman on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and Medium. ###
11.04.2016	Moulton to Host Congress on Your Corner Town Hall in Nahant November 4th, 2016 Constituents encouraged to attend Moulton’s November 14th event Salem, MA – Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) will hold a Congress on Your Corner event in Nahant on Monday, November 14th at 9:15 AM. Moulton holds Congress on Your Corner events in the district frequently to hear from constituents about the issues that are important to them. He has held more town halls than any other Democrat in Congress and ranks 13th overall. The Nahant town hall is part of Moulton’s commitment to hold a Congress on Your Corner event in each of the Sixth District’s 39 towns and cities during this session of Congress. These events provide constituents the opportunity to speak directly with Moulton and his staff about specific questions or issues with federal agencies. Nahant Congress on Your Corner DATE: Monday, November 14th TIME: 9:15 AM PLACE: Nahant Public Library, 15 Pleasant Street, Nahant, MA To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or find the Congressman on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
10.27.2016	Moulton Condemns DOD’s Mistreatment of Troops and Veterans, Promises Legislative Action October 27th, 2016 Moulton: “Putting the blame on our troops hurts the credit and wellbeing of the volunteers who wear the uniform of the United States military.” Salem, MA – Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) released the following statement about the Department of Defense’s (DOD) recoupment of military bonuses, as reported by The Los Angeles Times. Yesterday, Moulton joined more than 140 other Democrats and Republicans in a letter to the DOD seeking answers on how to solve this crisis and prevent the next (below). “Service members put their lives on the line for our country. To demand repayment of these bonuses is unjust and it breaks our country’s commitment to military members. Unexpected recoupment, especially nearly a decade after an erroneous bonus was issued, levies a huge financial burden on veterans and their families. These soldiers accepted bonuses – oftentimes forgoing other careers – in order to continue to protect and defend our country. “I commend Secretary Carter for calling on the Pentagon to suspend the bonus collections. Now he must work with Congress to address the larger problem of DOD’s aggressive, and often unfair, recoupment practices. “The truth is that this one case has brought to light a bigger issue. The DOD and the VA have a history of using coercive collections tactics against our troops and our veterans to recoup overpayments that are the fault of these agencies—not the troops themselves. Putting the blame on our troops for the DOD’s clerical mistakes hurts the credit and wellbeing of the volunteers who wear the uniform of the United States military. “I am looking into legislative action to address this larger and longstanding issue.” For more information about Congressman Seth Moulton visit our website or connect with the Congressman on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and Medium. ### October 26th, 2016 The Honorable Ashton B. Carter Secretary of Defense The United States Department of Defense 1000 Defense Pentagon Washington, DC 20301-1000 Dear Secretary Carter: Nothing is more important and nothing binds our nation together like the support of our Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen, and Marines. We write to you today as members of the National Guard and Reserve Component Caucus because we are concerned with continued reports about the ongoing recoupment of bonuses previously paid to Service Members, through no fault of the Service Member. We ask that you immediately halt all ongoing efforts to recoup these bonuses while you review the processes and cases to ensure that Service Members are protected and that these actions are in best interests of the United States. We also ask that you waive the recoupment in appropriate cases where the Service Member fulfilled their contract. It is our understanding that Department of Defense (DoD) and the applicable service Secretaries already possess authority to approve erroneous payment collection waivers under current DoD Financial Management Regulation 7000.14-R, and set forth in DoDD 1340.22, Waiver of Debts Resulting from Erroneous Payments of Pay and Allowances (dated January 8, 2005), which is codified at 32 C.F.R. Part 283, and DoD Instruction (DoDI) 1340.23, Waiver Procedures for Debts Resulting from Erroneous Pay and Allowances (dated February 14, 2006), which is codified at 32 C.F.R. Part 284. If you do not believe you possess this authority, please let us know so Congress can take appropriate action. Additionally, we ask that you provide the following information no later than December 1st, 2016: – Has the authority outlined in the previous paragraph been used? If so, in how many cases? – Have Service Members been educated on their ability to apply for this relief? – Does the DoD, Department of the Army, or the National Guard Bureau (NGB) plan to grant a blanket waiver for all Service Members affected by improperly paid bonuses, that were no fault of the Service member? If you determine that a waiver in these cases is not appropriate we ask that you also provide the following information at your earliest convenience: – A list of bonus recoupments that have occurred or are in process which you believe do not justify a recoupment waiver. Please include: – the Service Member’s component (including state National Guard if applicable) – the original bonus amount – the date when the bonus was issued – the amount recouped – the date the recoupment process started and completed – the authorizing authority/office – the reason the waiver is being denied. – A list of bonuses fraudulently given since 2000, like those identified in the joint Federal Bureau of Investigations and United States Army Criminal Investigation Command investigation into Master Sergeant Toni L. Jaffe. Please include what authorities these bonuses were given under and what authority are they being recouped under. We are certain, as you have repeatedly stressed yourself, that taking care of our troops is a top priority for all of us. We believe that recouping payments to troops who received the payments in good faith, and with the understanding that they were rightfully authorized this pay, is not in line with that effort. Many of these men and women volunteered to serve as our country was surging forces overseas and did so with the promise that they and their families would receive additional financial compensation. Seeking recoupment of these funds that were erroneously received through no fault of the Service Members is not in line with our promise to take care of those who stand up to answer the call of our nation. We look forward to working with you to address this issue as swiftly as possible. Respectfully,
10.17.2016	Moulton, Massachusetts Delegation Protect Lobster Industry against Proposed Ban October 17th, 2016 At delegation’s encouragement, European Commission rules against proposed lobster ban Salem, MA – The European Commission announced that it will not move forward with a ban on American lobster to the European Union (EU), noting that they found no strong scientific evidence to support Sweden’s proposed ban. The Commission’s determination comes after months of advocacy on the part of Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA), Senator Edward J. Markey (D-MA) and others in the delegation to make a decision based on science. As Moulton, Markey and others effectively argued, there is simply no evidence to support classifying the American lobster as an invasive species in order to ban their import. “The European Commission’s decision is great news for Massachusetts,” said Congressman Seth Moulton. “As we’ve said for months, a ban on American lobster is not supported by science and would have been damaging to our entire economy. Our lobster industry provides a source of income and jobs for lobstermen and women, lobster dealers, vessel and trap manufacturers, restaurants, and other coastal businesses here in the Sixth District and throughout the Commonwealth.” “I am pleased to see that the EU has determined that an outright ban on American lobster is not an appropriate solution. From boat deck to table top, American lobster benefits fishermen and foodies alike,” said Senator Edward J. Markey. “I hope all parties involved will continue to work toward a solution that addresses Sweden’s concerns while still allowing Europeans to enjoy the deliciousness of American lobster.” “The EU made the right call by rejecting the proposed ban on American lobster imports, which was not based in sound science,” said Senator Elizabeth Warren. “This decision is good news for the hardworking men and women in Massachusetts’ lobster industry.” “The continued trade of live American lobsters with the European Union is great news for the hardworking Massachusetts lobstermen and their families and the region as a whole. Thanks to the advocacy of the Massachusetts’ Lobstermen’s Association, the New England Congressional Delegation, the State Department, the United States Trade Representative, and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, the United States made a strong case based on scientific evidence and economic reasoning against the proposed ban and ensured that this critical trade relationship will continue,” said Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Boston). The Massachusetts congressional delegation has led the effort to overturn this unscientific proposal and advocated on behalf of the lobster industry. On September 28th, they led a delegation-wide letter to a representative of the European Commission. The letter expressed serious concern about the EU Scientific Forum’s decision to consider a ban, calling it “an excessive and unscientific response” that “would have a significant economic impact on Massachusetts and throughout New England.” The letter pointed to numerous studies by leading marine scientists that refuted Sweden’s claims and showed that the ban would be unmerited. Letter here. “The Massachusetts Lobstermen’s Association and its 1800 members extends our gratitude to Congressman Moulton and the other legislators and staff members for their continued efforts to help contest the potential banning of live American lobsters into the EU,” said Beth Casoni, Executive Director of the Massachusetts Lobstermen’s Association. “The EU markets are extremely important to the local lobster industry through the holiday season and this ban would have had a significant negative economic impact on the fleet here in the Commonwealth. Job well done!” For more information about Congressman Seth Moulton visit our website or connect with the Congressman on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and Medium. ###
10.16.2016	Congressman Moulton, HUD Officials, Mayor Kennedy to Tour Lead Remediation Work at Lynn Home October 16th, 2016 Federal funding helps to protect Lynn children from dangers of lead Salem, MA – This Thursday, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA), City of Lynn Mayor Judith Kennedy, U.S. Housing and Urban Development Regional Administrator Jim Reed and Office of Lead Hazard Control and Healthy Homes, Division Director Martin Nee, will tour a home at 38 Mountain Ave in Lynn, owned by Latasha Dobson, that recently completed lead remediation work utilizing some of the $2.9 million in HUD Lead Based Paint Hazard Control grant funding that the city received. The City of Lynn was awarded $2.5 million in HUD Lead-Based Paint Hazard Control federal grant funding and $400,000 in Healthy Homes Supplemental funding. The city will use this funding to address lead hazards in 150 housing units providing safer homes for low and very low-income families with children. The city, through its partner, Lynn Housing Authority & Neighborhood Development will work with Neighborhood Development Associates, Inc., Lynn Economic Opportunity, the Highlands Coalition and ASPIRE to complete the work. Lead poisoning is the No. 1 environmental health threat to children and according to state statistics, the primary source of childhood lead poisoning in Massachusetts is from exposure to lead paint and dust in homes built before 1978. In Lynn, 88% of the housing stock was built before 1978 according to data from the 2010-2014 American Community Survey. Reporters interested in attending are asked to contact Rhonda Siciliano, HUD Office of Public Affairs at 617-994-8355 or via email atRhonda.m.siciliano@hud.gov. WHO Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) City of Lynn Mayor Judith Kennedy Homeowner Latasha Dobson HUD Regional Administrator Jim Reed HUD Division Director, Office of Lead Hazard Control and Healthy Homes Martin Nee WHAT Tour of lead remediation work in Lynn, Massachusetts home WHERE 38 Mountain Ave, Lynn, MA WHEN Thursday, October 20, 2016 at 9:30 AM To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or find the Congressman on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
10.14.2016	Congressman Moulton to Address New England Council and Make the Case for the North South Rail Link October 14th, 2016 Moulton to focus on the need for advanced transportation to spur economic development Salem, MA– Next week, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) will address the New England Council in a speech focused on the need to improve the Commonwealth’s transportation infrastructure. Moulton will talk about economic development in the region and the need to bring innovative transportation infrastructure to the Sixth District and the state through the North South Rail Link. Following his remarks, he will take questions from area business leaders. WHO Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) New England Council WHAT Speech at the New England Council Breakfast followed by Q&A WHERE Hampshire House, 84 Beacon Street, Boston, MA WHEN Wednesday, October 19th at 8:00AM To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or find the Congressman on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
10.12.2016	Moulton Advocates for Transparent Process to Save the Pink House October 12th, 2016 At delegation’s encouragement, Wildlife Refuge agrees to extend demolition timeline Salem, MA – In response to plans to demolish the Pink House, a group of constituents formed the Save the Pink House coalition, and Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA), Senator Elizabeth Warren (D), and Senator Edward J. Markey (D) have worked closely with group and with the Parker River National Refuge to find a better solution. This collaboration between all key stakeholders resulted in an extended demolition deadline from Fall 2016 to Fall 2017. “As a cultural landmark in Newbury, the Pink House means a lot to our region,” said Moulton. “The updated timeline will give constituents, elected representatives, and Wildlife Refuge officials the opportunity to find a viable solution for its preservation. I’m committed to ensuring that this continues to be a transparent process.” The Pink House holds cultural significance to the Newbury community, and is frequently visited by artists, writers, photographers, and tourists. The extended timeline agreement will allow the Save the Pink House coalition, Wildlife Refuge representatives, local, state, and federal leaders to work together on a collaborative solution to preserve the Pink House that works for all parties involved. For more information about Congressman Seth Moulton visit our website or connect with the Congressman on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and Medium. ###
09.30.2016	Moulton’s Essex River Dredging Bill Passes House September 30th, 2016 Dredging will make Essex River safer and spur economic development Salem, MA – This week, the U.S. House passed Congressman Seth Moulton’s (D-MA) bill to allow dredging in the Essex River as part of the Water Resource Development Act of 2016 (WRDA). The Senate version of the bill passed last week, and the legislation aimed at improving public safety and spurring economic development is now one step closer to reaching the President’s desk. “Dredging the Essex River is critical for public safety. Coast Guard vessels currently can’t reach boats in distress in many parts of the river. By making the channel more navigable, we’ll ensure a safer environment for all who enjoy it. It will also help local job growth and economic development, while being conscious of the need to preserve and protect this unique and valuable resource,” said Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA). “I’m proud that the House passed my bill as part of the Water Resources Development Act to provide the federal criteria we need for dredging to take place, and I’m grateful to our local leaders who helped move this forward.” The annual WRDA bill authorizes all water resources development projects carried out by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. Moulton advocated for the Essex River dredging project to be included in WRDA to ensure that dredging the Essex River has the federal criteria it needs in order to occur. “Important dredging projects like the one in the Essex River can’t move forward without federal partnership, and that requires federal officials who are committed to making them happen,” said State Senator Bruce Tarr (R-Gloucester). “Congressman Moulton has made that commitment, and the passage of this legislation is a very positive development.” “I would like to thank Congressman Seth Moulton, Senator Bruce Tarr, and everyone who has worked vigilantly to bring the successful passage of the Essex River Jobs and Recreation bill to fruition,” said Essex Police Chief, Peter G. Silva. “This is an important step in revitalizing the vision and process for the dredging needs of the Essex River which is desperately needed. Without their support and their partnerships with our community, this may have been an unattainable task. I am encouraged that with the progress that we have made, the goal of dredging has taken a large step toward becoming a reality in the near future.” Moulton’s Essex River Jobs and Recreation Act would allow for re-designated boundaries around the federal channel in order to eliminate encroachment issues from piers and docks, freeing the town to dredge the upper part of the river as it approaches the downtown Causeway and allowing for the safe passage of watercraft. “The Town has been very well served by our Federal legislative delegation and the Army Corps of Engineers from initial planning through the actual changes made to the Essex River Federal Channel,” said Brendhan Zubricki, Town Administrator. “The passage of the bill eliminates encroachments to the channel and will now allow the Town to compete for Federal dredging funding for which it was not eligible prior to the modifications.” For more information about Congressman Seth Moulton visit our website or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and Medium. ###
09.29.2016	Moulton Responds to Obama Administration’s Plan to Send Hundreds More American Troops to Iraq September 29th, 2016 Moulton: “We cannot, in good conscience, continue to send young Americans into harm’s way without a clear plan.” Washington, D.C. – Defense Secretary Ash Carter just announced that the U.S. is sending about 600 additional Americans troops to Iraq for an operation to retake the Iraqi city of Mosul from ISIS. Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) issued the following statement in response to Secretary Carter’s speech: “Secretary Carter’s announcement means that 600 more young Americans will put their lives on the line for our country. We cannot, in good conscience, continue to send young Americans into harm’s way without a clear plan, not just to win the war, but to ensure the ultimate success of the mission by securing the peace. That’s the only way we can bring the troops home for good when they’re done. “I’ve been to Iraq several times in the past year to visit our troops where I’ve seen firsthand the impressive progress being made in the military’s fight against ISIS. But what we urgently need is a political plan so that we don’t have to send our troops back again and again to deal with ISIS 2.0. I’ve released a plan that I believe should guide our political strategy in Iraq, and I’ll continue to press the Obama Administration and future administrations to ensure that the sacrifices our troops have made, and continue to make, are not in vain.” For the past two years, Moulton has spoken about the need to defeat ISIS and prevent its potential successors from taking root. He has conducted an extensive review of U.S. policies in Iraq, including three oversight visits to Iraq as a member of the House Armed Services Committee to meet with military generals, top foreign policy leaders, and our troops on the ground. This month, Moulton released a four-part political plan to secure peace and stability in Iraq. You can read Moulton’s Iraq Plan on our website here. Moulton served as a Marine infantry officer in Iraq during some of the most difficult periods of fighting, and he later focused on the tasks of reconstruction and stabilization. In a speech two weeks ago at the United States Institute of Peace, Moulton noted how these experiences led to his clear understanding of the importance of having a clearly defined strategy – both military and political – as foundational to securing peace in the Middle East. For more information about Congressman Seth Moulton visit our website or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and Medium. ###
09.28.2016	Markey, Moulton Spearhead Effort to Protect Massachusetts Lobster Industry September 28th, 2016 In Letter to European Commission, Massachusetts leaders advocate for fact-based decision on potential EU lobster ban Washington, D.C. – Today, Massachusetts Congressman Seth Moulton and Senator Edward J. Markey led a campaign to protect the Massachusetts lobster industry. Their advocacy is in response to the European Union (EU) Scientific Forum’s decision to move forward with Sweden’s proposal to classify the American lobster as an invasive alien species and, subsequently, ban their import to the EU. Moulton and Markey led a Massachusetts congressional delegation letter sent today to the EU’s Directorate-General for the environment, Daniel Calleja Crespo. The letter expresses serious concern about the EU Scientific Forum’s decision to move forward and calls it “an excessive and unscientific response” that “would have a significant economic impact on Massachusetts and throughout New England.” Full letter attached. “Sweden’s attempt to cast the American lobster as an invasive species is simply not supported by science,” said Congressman Seth Moulton. “Numerous studies conducted by leading marine scientists refute Sweden’s assertions, making their proposed ban an unmerited and concerning move. This ban would not only have a detrimental impact on the livelihoods of hardworking men and women in the lobster industry, but it would also hurt our entire Massachusetts economy. I’ll continue to work with my colleagues in Congress and the Administration to advocate for an informed, data-driven decision on this issue.” “Science and economics don’t support the proposal to ban the importation of live American lobsters into the EU. The proposed ban would undermine a centuries-old relationship and have enormously negative impacts on the Massachusetts lobster industry,” said Senator Edward J. Markey. “I urge the EU to consider solutions beyond this extreme blanket ban of American lobster imports and work towards a solution so that Europeans can continue to enjoy this most delectable of American exports for years to come.” “Congressman Seth Moulton and Senator Markey’s dedication and commitment to the commercial lobster industry here in the Commonwealth is exemplary while dealing with many challenging issues the lobster industry and its shoreside support businesses face on a daily basis,” said Beth Casoni, Executive Director of the Massachusetts Lobstermen’s Association. “We are extremely grateful to have tried and true champions in our corner when the traps are stacked against the hard working men and women in the commercial fishing industry.” Read the full letter here. For more information about Congressman Seth Moulton visit our website or connect with the Congressman on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and Medium. ###
09.28.2016	Moulton Votes to Sustain President’s Veto of JASTA and Protect our National Security September 28th, 2016 Washington, D.C. — Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) voted to sustain President Obama’s veto of the Justice Against Sponsors of Terrorism Act (JASTA). Moulton issued the following statement explaining his vote on this issue: “Like all Americans, I was horrified by the callous terrorist attacks on our soil on September 11, 2001, and I am committed to continuing to stand by the families of 9/11 victims. As a Congressman, I am focused on preventing tragedies like 9/11, safeguarding our national security, and keeping our citizens and service members safe. I take this responsibility seriously, and for these reasons I voted to sustain the President’s veto. “This legislation puts our U.S. troops at risk by weakening sovereign immunity protections. As a result, it weakens our national security and jeopardizes the critical missions our troops carry out every day. The legislation also imperils our relationships with important allies, relationships that are vital to our fight against ISIS and other adversaries. “I will always stand behind families of 9/11 victims and survivors and do everything I can to support them. Key to this mission is protecting our national security and ensuring no other Americans have to endure what these families faced.” For more information about Congressman Seth Moulton visit our website or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and Medium. ###
09.22.2016	Moulton and Hurd’s Modernizing Government Travel Bill Unanimously Passes House September 22nd, 2016 Bipartisan legislation will make government travel more efficient, save taxpayer dollars, and reduce federal spending Washington, D.C. – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives unanimously passed Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) and Congressman Will Hurd’s (R-TX) Modernizing Government Travel (MGT) Act, which will help solidify ridesharing options and other innovative transportation services as part of the government transportation ecosystem. Moulton and Hurd’s bipartisan bill will give federal employees greater choice when they travel on official business, enabling them to utilize cost-effective rideshare options like Uber, Lyft, and bikeshare programs. As a result, this bill makes government travel more efficient by reducing federal spending and saving taxpayer dollars. “Our bipartisan bill ensures that innovative and cost-effective modes of transportation are available to the thousands of federal employees in Washington and Massachusetts for official travel,” said Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA). “We know that this increased engagement in the sharing economy will reduce federal spending and by passing our bill today, the House has agreed to our idea that we can save taxpayer dollars by bringing government travel into the 21st century.” “The federal government does not have to lag behind-the-times with antiquated policies. With simple updates like the MGT Act, we can become more attractive as an employer, more efficient in getting people where they need to go, and save taxpayer dollars while doing so,” said Representative Hurd (R-TX), who chairs the House Subcommittee on IT, and has been an advocate for modernizing federal IT and embracing new technology. “This bill finally allows federal agencies to catch up with the private sector and moves the needle toward a more innovative and responsive government.” “Thank you to Congressman Hurd and Congressman Moulton for working hard to move this legislation forward in the House and to those members who have introduced similar legislation in the Senate. Uber is committed to providing reliable transportation at the push of a button for everyone, everywhere, including those working in the federal government,” said Niki Christoff, Head of Federal Affairs for Uber. “We applaud the House’s passage of legislation that embraces TNC service,” said Joe Okpaku, Lyft’s Vice President of Government Relations. “Allowing federal workers to choose innovative transportation solutions like Lyft when travelling for work is a great way to encourage more efficient use of resources and ensures that government workers have access to affordable, reliable transportation options.” Moulton and Hurd’s bill requires the General Services Administration (GSA) to implement regulations allowing federal employees to use alternative transportation options such as Uber, Lyft, and bikeshare for official travel. This bill will provide greater clarity to the millions of employees serving in our federal government and encourage the use of new technology that increases efficiency and decreases costs. The legislation was co-introduced by Representatives Will Hurd (R-TX), Eric Swalwell (D-CA), Darrell Issa (R-CA), Mark Meadows (R-NC), and Cheri Bustos (D-IL). For more information about Congressman Seth Moulton visit our website or connect with the Congressman on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and Medium. ###
09.16.2016	Moulton Advocates for Responsible Defense Spending in Response to Navy LCS Announcement September 16th, 2016 Navy takes four Littoral Combat Ships (LCS) out of deployment rotation Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) urged his colleagues in Congress to take a more critical look at our nation’s defense spending and in particular, continued spending on the flawed littoral combat ship (LCS) program. Navy officials just announced that they have sidelined four of their new LCS vessels, taking them out of deployment rotation in light of extensive field studies that exposed serious shortcomings, like engine problems and ship survivability. “It’s critical that we analyze all of our defense programs to ensure the Pentagon’s budget is being allocated in the soundest manner possible, and LCS funding is an example of irresponsible defense spending that puts lives at risk,” said Moulton. “The goals of the LCS program are admirable, but the bottom line is that the ship doesn’t work. Every additional dollar spent on this failing program is a dollar that could be spent on critical requirements for our frontline troops. We can’t afford that, and our troops don’t deserve it.” Earlier this year, Moulton expressed concerns about the direction of the LCS program, and he supported Defense Secretary Carter’s order to trim the overall number of LCS vessels and scale back production. In Moulton’s role as a member of the House Armed Services Committee, he emphasized to his colleagues that our Navy’s shipbuilding dollars should not be wasted when we lack a plan to fix dangerous flaws. Instead of correcting these issues, the House passed an additional $384 million for the LCS program. The Navy’s decision to remove these four vessels from deployment rotation means they will not be used in an active combat capacity. It also means that over $1.4 billion dollars was spent on four ships that will not be deployable and will be resigned to a testing capacity. For more information about Congressman Seth Moulton visit our website or connect with the Congressman on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and Medium. ###
09.15.2016	House Committee Passes Moulton’s Bipartisan Bill to Make Government More Efficient and Save Taxpayer Dollars September 15th, 2016 Moulton’s bill advances for a vote on the House floor Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton’s (D-MA) Modernizing Government Travel Act, to help solidify ridesharing options and other innovative transportation services as part of the government transportation ecosystem, unanimously passed the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform. The bill will now advance for a vote on the House floor. Moulton’s bill would give federal employees greater choice when they travel on official business. As a result, the bill will make government travel more efficient by reducing federal spending and saving taxpayer dollars. “Innovative modes of transportation have improved the way we travel, and my bipartisan bill would ensure that the thousands of federal employees in Washington and Massachusetts are able to take advantage of cost-effective options like Uber, Lyft, and bikeshare for official travel,” said Moulton. “I’m grateful to the members of the committee who reviewed this bill and saw the value in this idea for the people we represent. This bill will save taxpayer money and bring innovation into how government functions.” Moulton’s bill would require the General Services Administration (GSA) to implement regulations allowing federal employees to use alternative transportation options such as Uber, Lyft, and bike-share for official travel. The GSA Administrator would be required to submit annual reports to Congress on the implementation of these regulations and the resulting amount of government savings. While GSA allows agencies to authorize the use of these transportation options by federal employees, it has not, nor is it required by law, to issue comprehensive guidance. Consequently, agencies and their employees may be unaware that they have these transportation options available to them for reimbursement. The Modernizing Government Travel Act would provide greater clarity to the millions of employees serving in our federal government and encourage the use of new technology and innovation that increases efficiency and decreases costs. As we continue to find ways to bring the federal government into the 21st century, this legislation seeks to increase our engagement in the sharing economy while saving taxpayer dollars and reducing federal spending. This bill was co-introduced by Representatives Will Hurd (R-TX), Eric Swalwell (D-CA), Darrell Issa (R-CA), Mark Meadows (R-NC), and Cheri Bustos (D-IL). For more information about Congressman Seth Moulton visit our website or connect with the Congressman on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and Medium.
09.14.2016	Moulton’s Economic Development Director and InnoNorth to Host Networking and Panel Discussion Event in Salem September 14th, 2016 Community members to come together in Moulton’s Salem office to focus on innovation and economic development Salem, MA — Tomorrow, Congressman Seth Moulton’s (D-MA) Economic Development Director, Jason Denoncourt, will take part in, “Innovating for the Greater Good: Networking and Panel Discussion,” a panel discussion with Salem Mayor Kim Driscoll, Christina Wilson, Programs Manager at the Emerson Engagement Lab in Boston, and Dr. Cindy Vincent, Salem State Professor and Faculty Fellow for the Center for Civic Engagement, who will moderate the discussion. Local technology and political leaders will come together in Moulton’s Salem district office to network and discuss the ways in which the region can continue to innovate, both in the near and long-term. WHO: Jason Denoncourt, Economic Development Director for Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) Kim Driscoll, Mayor of Salem Christina Wilson, Programs Manager at the Emerson Engagement Lab in Boston Dr. Cindy Vincent, Salem State Professor and Faculty Fellow for the Center for Civic Engagement WHAT: Networking and panel discussion WHERE: Congressman Seth Moulton’s (D-MA) district office 21 Front Street, Salem, MA (Live stream of the event will be available here) WHEN: Thursday, September 15, 2016 at 6:00PM For more information about Congressman Seth Moulton visit our website or connect with the Congressman on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and Medium. ###
09.13.2016	Moulton Releases his Plan for Obama Administration and Future Administrations to Succeed in Iraq September 13th, 2016 At the United States Institute of Peace, Moulton outlines his strategy Washington, D.C. — During a speech at the United States Institute of Peace (USIP), Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA), who has been critical of the Obama Administration’s approach to the Middle East, announced his four-part political plan to secure peace and stability in Iraq. Moulton outlined his strategy and the specific direction that he hopes to see the Obama Administration and future Administrations take in order to defeat ISIS, stabilize the Middle East, and allow our troops to return home for good. “The fundamental problem in Iraq and Syria is political, not military,” said Moulton. “Although it’s devolved to the point where our military involvement is necessary, the only long-term solution that can allow our troops to return home for good must be political in nature.” Moulton has made four key policy recommendations in order to implement a long-term solution: define our desired political end state, enable political reforms, condition further military support on political progress, and provide authorization and funding for Iraq’s future. “Ultimately, our goal is to help create the environment for an Iraq that is sovereign, independent, representative of its people, allied with our interests, and able to maintain its own security against both foreign and domestic enemies. This plan will help get us there,” Moulton writes in his plan. For the past two years, Moulton has spoken about the need to defeat ISIS and prevent its potential successors from taking root. He has conducted an extensive review of U.S. policies in Iraq, including three oversight visits to Iraq as a member of the House Armed Services Committee to meet with military generals, top foreign policy leaders, and our troops on the ground. In his recent Op-Ed in The Washington Post, Moulton argued that U.S. policies “have yet to articulate a political plan to ensure Iraq’s long-term stability.” Moulton served as a Marine infantry officer in Iraq during some of the most difficult periods of fighting, and he later focused on the tasks of reconstruction and stabilization. In his speech at the USIP, Moulton noted how these experiences led to his clear understanding of the importance of having a clearly defined strategy – both military and political – as foundational to securing peace in the Middle East. You can read Moulton’s Iraq Plan on our website here. For more information about Congressman Seth Moulton visit our website or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and Medium. ###
09.13.2016	Moulton to Propose Four Key Areas Obama Administration and Future Administrations Must Focus on for Success in Iraq September 13th, 2016 Today at the United States Institute of Peace, Moulton will outline his strategy Washington, D.C. — Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA), who has been critical of Obama’s policies in the Middle East, will outline four specific areas that he hopes to see this and future Administrations take to strengthen peace and stability in Iraq. Over the past year, Moulton has conducted an extensive review of U.S. policies in Iraq, including three oversight visits to Iraq as a member of the House Armed Services Committee to meet with military generals, top foreign policy leaders, and our troops on the ground. In his recent Op-Ed in The Washington Post, Moulton argued that U.S. policies “have yet to articulate a political plan to ensure Iraq’s long-term stability.” At 3PM today, Moulton will announce his proposed strategy and make recommendations for U.S.-Iraq policy that he says are critical to defeating ISIS and helping stabilize the Middle East. Following his speech at the United States Institute of Peace (USIP), Moulton will take part in a Q&A session moderated by USIP President, Nancy Lindborg. WHO: Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) Nancy Lindborg, President, U.S. Institute of Peace (moderator) WHAT: A speech and moderated Q&A, “How to Stabilize Iraq: A Marine in Congress Speaks” – Congressman Moulton argues that the U.S. should broaden and energize its efforts in Iraq WHERE: U.S. Institute of Peace, 2301 Constitution Ave., NW, Washington, DC 20037 This event will also be live-streamed online. WHEN: Tuesday September 13, 2016 from 3:00PM-4:30PM RSVP REQUIRED: Please contact Paul Johnson at 202-429-7174 or via e-mail at pjohnson@usip.org to RSVP and for further information. All registration requests must be submitted by Monday, September 12th at 5 p.m. For more information about Congressman Seth Moulton visit our website or connect with the Congressman on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and Medium. ###
09.12.2016	Moulton Introduces Bipartisan Legislation to Authorize National War on Terrorism Memorial September 12th, 2016 Today, Congressmen Seth Moulton (D-MA) and Ryan Zinke (R-MT) introduced bipartisan legislation to authorize a national memorial dedicated to those who have fought in the Global War on Terror (GWOT) following the September 11th terrorist attacks. This week marks the 15-year anniversary of the attack and thus the beginning of the war. Under current law, Congress would have to wait ten years after a war is over to create a memorial. This bill would exempt the GWOT from this restriction and allow the GWOT Foundation to begin building a national memorial to honor the more than 4,500 American troops who fell in combat and the countless more who return home. “As a Marine veteran, this effort to build a new memorial is especially meaningful to me as a way to honor the men and women who gave their lives in service to our country,” said Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA). “We owe this to all of them, to their families, and to the young Americans who continue put their lives on the line for us today.” “Modern warfare is asymmetrical and unconventional, which is partly why we have been at war for the longest period in our nation’s history fighting the War on Terror,” said Rep. Zinke, a retired Navy SEAL Commander and Commander of Joint Special Forces in Iraq (2004). “Our nation was plunged into war 15 years ago after the September 11th terrorist attacks, and yet we are unable to build a memorial because of government regulations that stipulate when and where a memorial can be built. That’s not right. It’s a disservice to the Warriors and to the families. I’m thankful to my colleague and fellow Iraq veteran, Rep. Seth Moulton, and for the team at the War on Global Terror Memorial Foundation for helping create legislation to honor our warriors and provide loved ones with a place to reflect. As somebody who has been to too many funerals for fallen soldiers, sailors, airmen, and marines, I can say without a doubt this memorial is greatly needed as part of the healing process.” “Unlike past wars and conflicts, the Global War on Terror is one that had a marked beginning on 9/11, but has no definitive end. Therefore, it is important that we build a memorial on our National Mall in Washington, D.C. to commemorate the sacrifices made by those service members who did not come home from the battlefield, those who continue to serve in conflict zones, and their families. This includes members of our intelligence and diplomatic communities as well as our first responders on 9/11,” said Andrew Brennan, executive director of the Global War on Terror Memorial Foundation. “We are grateful to Congressman Zinke and Congressman Moulton for their leadership, support and commitment to enabling our organization to build a tangible symbol of our generation’s sacrifice. We look forward to the group healing, the ability to honor and remember, and the capacity to educate that this memorial will enable.” The bill has the support of the Veterans of Foreign Wars and is sponsored by the following Members of Congress: Reps. Seth Moulton (D-MA), Ryan Zinke (R-MT), Mike Coffman (R-CO), Trent Franks (R-AZ), C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD), Tulsi Gabbard (D-HI), Tim Walz (D-MN), Doug LaMalfa (R-CA), Jeff Denham (R-CA), Dan Donovan (R-NY), Steve Russell (R-OK), David Rouzer (R-NC), Keith Rothfus (R-PA), Elise Stefanik (R-NY), Bill Huizenga (R-MI), Bradley Byrne (R-AL), Ann Wagner (R-MO), Cresent Hardy (R-NV). ###
09.11.2016	Moulton Announces First Annual Peter J. Gomes Service Award Winner, Andrew DeFranza September 11th, 2016 Following the ceremony, Moulton hosts Day of Service in Lynn in honor of the 15th anniversary of September 11th Salem, MA – On the 15th anniversary of September 11th and what is today a National Day of Service and Remembrance, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) named Andrew DeFranza the winner of his first annual Peter J. Gomes Service Award during a ceremony at English High School in Lynn. Moulton established The Peter J. Gomes Service Award this August to be given annually to a Sixth District resident who best epitomizes the qualities of integrity, compassion, and commitment to community, all traits foundational to Gomes’ teachings and legacy of service. “Andrew has convened an incredible organization in Harborlight Community Partners. Over the past nine-years, the organization has grown to support nearly 500 units of affordable housing in the North Shore. But it was the description submitted by his nominator, that really set Andrew apart,” Moulton said during his remarks at the ceremony. “This focus on community and affordable housing is not merely to put a roof over the heads of those in need, but it also an effort to ensure that many public servants — teachers, law enforcement officers, and firefighters — can afford to live in the town in which they work and have grown up. That is a mission that Peter Gomes would have full-heartedly supported, and one worthy of recognition today.” DeFranza is executive director of Harborlight Community Partners, a low-income housing provider. Moulton launched the Peter J. Gomes Service Award this summer, named for his mentor and friend who he says, “influenced my own decision to serve in the Marines, and later as a Member of Congress.” Moulton’s office received more than 30 nominations and a panel of judges from the community narrowed down the competition to six finalists: Lou Cimaglia (Wilmington), Andrew Defranza (Beverly), Kristi Hale (North Andover), Kit Jenkins (Lynn), Rev. Art McDonald (Essex, Lynn) and Maggie and Joe Rosa (Gloucester). All six were recognized for their extraordinary contributions to the community and commitment to service on a daily basis. Following the award ceremony, Moulton was joined by nearly 70 members of the community, including local AmeriCorps and City Year members, for a day of service. Volunteers served with Raw Artworks, The Food Project, The Backpack Program, and Tech Skills USA, with a variety of tasks from assembling care packages for first responders with Tech Skills USA to building and maintaining gardens for The Food Project. “It was encouraging and it was meaningful to hear the stories of so many people who serve our community every single day, not because there’s some big thing on TV, not just in the wake of an unexpected tragedy, but because it’s just the right thing to do. It’s taking care of our community, it’s taking care of our neighbors, and it’s something that we all ought to try to do more of every single day,” Moulton said. For more information about Congressman Seth Moulton visit our website or connect with the Congressman on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and Medium. ###
09.07.2016	On 15th Anniversary of September 11th, Moulton to Announce Peter J. Gomes Service Award Winner September 7th, 2016 Moulton will honor National Day of Service and Remembrance by serving alongside 100 local volunteers Washington, D.C. – On the 15th anniversary of September 11th, and what is deemed a National Day of Service and Remembrance, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) will announce the winner of his first annual Peter J. Gomes Service Award during a ceremony in Lynn. The office received more than 30 nominations which have been narrowed down to six finalists. The ceremony will take place at 9:00 a.m. in the Lynn English High School Auditorium and will be directly followed by a Day of Service hosted by Moulton in coordination with local nonprofits, and local AmeriCorps and City Year members. Finalists for the Peter J. Gomes Service Award include: Lou Cimaglia (Wilmington) Andrew Defranza (Beverly) Kristi Hale (North Andover) Kit Jenkins (Lynn) Rev. Art McDonald (Essex, Lynn) Maggie and Joe Rosa (Gloucester) WHO: Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) Peter J. Gomes Service Award nominees and finalists Local AmeriCorps and City Year members Community members WHAT: Award ceremony and Day of Service Volunteers will serve at the following locations: Raw Artworks, The Food Project, The Backpack Program, and Tech Skills USA, with a variety of tasks from assembling care packages for first responders at Tech Skills USA to building and maintaining gardens at The Food Project. WHERE: Lynn English High School Auditorium 50 Goodridge St, Lynn, MA WHEN: Sunday September 11, 2016 at 9AM For more information about Congressman Seth Moulton visit our website or connect with the Congressman on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and Medium. Link to RSVP here ###
09.07.2016	Newbury Fire Department Awarded $157,189 FEMA Grant September 7th, 2016 Grant will enable fire department to update communications equipment Washington, D.C. – Today, the Office of Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) announced that a $157,189 grant from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has been awarded to the Newbury Fire Department. The Staffing for Adequate Fire & Emergency Response (SAFER) grant will allow for the department to make updates to their communications equipment. “Our firefighters play an integral role in keeping our communities safe,” said Moulton. “They deserve top-quality equipment to do their jobs, and this federal grant will enable Chief Walker and the Newbury Fire Department to make critical updates to their communications equipment. I’m grateful to the Department of Homeland Security for recognizing the need to invest in our local fire departments.” “I am incredibly pleased that the Newbury Fire Department has been awarded this extremely beneficial grant to better our communications, the backbone of fire safety and efficiency,” Newbury Fire Chief Nathan Walker said. “Between Plum Island, Byfield, and Newbury, the Fire Department covers over 26 miles of land, making this grant to improve our communications even more vital.” SAFER grants are awarded to: fire departments, national, state, local, or tribal organizations that represent the interests of volunteer firefighters. For more information about Congressman Seth Moulton visit our website or connect with the Congressman on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and Medium. ####
09.07.2016	Moulton Announces Federal Economic Injury Disaster Loans Available to Small Businesses in Massachusetts Affected by Drought September 7th, 2016 Moulton: “These loans from the Small Business Administration will provide needed relief to our agricultural community.” Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) announced the U.S. Small Business Administration has made federal economic injury disaster loans available to small businesses, small agricultural cooperatives, small businesses engaged in aquaculture and most private non-profit organizations of all sizes in Essex and Middlesex counties as a result of the drought. These working capital loans are intended to provided needed relief to the agricultural community and may be used to pay fixed debts and other bills that could have been paid had the drought disaster not occurred. “This has been the worst drought Massachusetts has experienced in more than a decade,” said Moulton. “As a result, our local farmers have suffered serious losses to their summer harvest, and serious financial losses as well. These economic injury disaster loans from the Small Business Administration will provide needed relief to our agricultural community and small businesses impacted by this drought right here in the district.” The SBA’s Economic Injury Disaster Loan program is available to eligible farm-related and nonfarm-related entities that suffered financial losses as a direct result of this disaster. The SBA determines eligibility based on the size of the applicant, type of activity and its financial resources. Loan amounts and terms are set by the SBA and are based on each applicant’s financial condition, and applicants may apply online using the Electronic Loan Application (ELA) via SBA’s secure website at https://disasterloan.sba.gov/ela. For more information about Congressman Seth Moulton visit our website or connect with Seth on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and Medium. ###
09.02.2016	Moulton Announces Nearly $12 Million in Federal Grants Secured to Help End Veteran Homelessness in Massachusetts September 2nd, 2016 Investments will maintain progress made to date in cities like Lynn for low-income veterans and their families Salem, MA – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) announced that the Supportive Services for Veteran Families (SSVF) program through the Department of Veterans Affairs has awarded nearly $12 million in federal grants to help low-income veteran families in Massachusetts prevent homelessness. The funding will be awarded to private, non-profit organizations and consumer cooperatives that provide a range of services to very low-income veteran families, including more than $2 million for the Veterans Northeast Outreach Center, Inc. and $449,645 for the Lynn Housing Authority Development Group, Inc. “Ending veteran homelessness should be a top priority for every town, city, and state in our country,” said Moulton. “I’m proud of the progress made to date, particularly in Massachusetts, and in places like Lynn, a city which has received a ‘functional zero’ categorization for homeless veterans. This substantial federal investment by the VA will help get us closer to ending veteran homelessness across the nation, and it will ensure that we maintain the progress we’ve made to date in cities like Lynn. By securing stable housing and access to critical services for veterans and their families, we can reach our goal of ending veteran homelessness.” The Director of Regional Housing & Services for the Lynn Housing Authority and Neighborhood Development (LHAND), Harry MacCabe, noted the impact this funding will have on Lynn. “LHAND is very excited to have the opportunity to continue our Veterans Services. We have served over 150 Veterans from Essex & Middlesex county. This funding enables us to continue serving single Veterans and Families of Veterans to transition from homelessness to permanent housing. Lynn was honored in 2016 to be Certified as a Functional Zero City to end homelessness for Veterans. This could not have been done without the VA funding and support of Congressman Moulton, Mayor Kennedy and the Community Support and resources,” he said. “We are proud to announce the renewal of our Supportive Services for Veteran Families,” said a representative from the Veterans Northeast Outreach Center. “This grant renewal is for $2,000,000 to assist those seeking housing or in imminent risk of losing housing. Veterans Northeast Outreach Center is dedicated to helping end veterans homelessness.” The SSVF grant program provides access to crucial services for veterans and their families. SSVF funding supports outreach, case management, and other flexible assistance to prevent veteran homelessness or rapidly re-house veterans who become homeless. For more information about Congressman Seth Moulton visit our website or connect with the Congressman on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and Medium. ####
09.01.2016	Massachusetts Accelerators Awarded $150K for Small Business Startups, including North Shore InnoVentures, Inc. in Beverly September 1st, 2016 Moulton: “I look forward to seeing the impact this federal funding will have on job creation and economic development here in northeastern Massachusetts.” Salem, MA – Today, the Office of Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) announced three Massachusetts accelerators have been awarded federal grant money totaling $150,000 as part of the third annual Growth Accelerator Fund Competition by the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA). One of the three recipients is North Shore InnoVentures, Inc. in Beverly, which will receive $50,000 to boost the economic impact of their work. “Small businesses are the backbone of our national economy and regional job growth,” said Moulton. “So, it’s critical that our country’s small businesses have reliable access to capital in order to innovate, grow our economy, and create new jobs. I’m proud that Massachusetts entrepreneurs did so well in this national funding competition, including North Shore InnoVentures, Inc. in Beverly. I look forward to seeing the impact this federal funding will have on job creation and economic development here in northeastern Massachusetts.” Applications were judged by more than 100 experts with entrepreneurial, investment, startup, economic development, capital formation, and academic backgrounds from both the public and private sector. The first panel of judges reviewed more than 400 applications and presentations and established a pool of 200 highly qualified finalists. The second panels evaluated the finalists’ presentations and pitch videos and selected the 68 winners. “Our three local winners this year are helping grow early stage new businesses in cleantech, biotech, life sciences industries — and also helping to promote inclusive entrepreneurship on Main Street,” said Robert Nelson, SBA Massachusetts District Director. “Accelerators serve entrepreneurs in a broad set of industries and sectors – from manufacturing and tech start-ups, to farming and biotech – with many focused on creating a diverse and inclusive small business community,” said SBA Administrator Maria Contreras-Sweet. Through this national competition, we are also empowering accelerators which are led by and support women or other underrepresented groups. SBA will continue to explore ways to creatively harness this powerful network and connect startups with one another and with available government resources. We reported to Congress 138 winners from 2014 and 2015 – made up of 5,000 companies that have raised $1.5 billion and employ nearly 20,000 people. With the addition of the 2016 winners, the number of SBA supported entrepreneurs will significantly grow.” For more information about Congressman Seth Moulton visit our website or connect with the Congressman on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and Medium. ####
08.31.2016	Middlesex Community College Receives almost Half a Million Dollars in Federal Funding August 31st, 2016 Grant will expand MCC’s capacity to provide educational opportunities to low-income students Salem, MA – The U.S. Department of Education, along with Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) and Congresswoman Niki Tsongas (D-MA), announced that the DOE has awarded a $444,581 grant to Middlesex Community College (MCC) through the Strengthening Institutions Program. This program helps eligible institutions to grow their ability to serve low-income students by providing funds to improve and strengthen the academic quality, institutional management, and fiscal stability. “One of the most pressing issues facing higher education today is access,” said Congressman Seth Moulton. “Cost should not prevent an aspiring student from earning a college degree. This grant will enable Middlesex Community College to expand their capacity to serve low-income students. I’m proud of MCC for securing a competitive grant that will strengthen their campus community and opportunities for students.” DOE grants are highly competitive and involve a thorough review and selection process. With campuses in both Bedford and Lowell, Middlesex Community College is a comprehensive, two-year, publicly supported community college. MCC will utilize the funding to implement its eMCC: Success from the Start program. This program will work to improve the school’s technology infrastructure and the development of analytics about enrollment, student planning, advising, and outcomes. They will also be able to better assess academic progress to inform and empower both students and the institution as a whole. “Using federal funds to partner with local institutions to address the needs of the region is a key tool in ensuring all people have the opportunity to pursue higher education,” said Congresswoman Niki Tsongas. “The significant return on these investments will have ongoing reverberations for many years to come, as the school is better able to analyze its programs and their effectiveness, and as more students are encouraged and able to complete their college careers and enter the workforce with the skills necessary to succeed. MCC received these funds after a rigorous grant process, which speaks to both the quality of their application and the school in general. They exemplify the growing trend of Third District institutions becoming academic leaders in the Commonwealth. I look forward to seeing the far-reaching benefits take hold.” “This is thrilling news for Middlesex Community College and will have a direct and immediate impact on students who are seeking to further their education at our campuses in Lowell and Bedford,” said MCC President James Mabry. “Middlesex plans to use this grant support to employ smart data and focus on student retention and success programs that will help keep our students on campus through the successful completion of a degree and position them for an educated entry into the workforce. Once again, the support of our federal partners Representatives Tsongas and Moulton is helping further the mission of higher education and provide pathways to success for our students.” For more information about Congressman Seth Moulton visit our website or connect with the Congressman on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and Medium. ####
08.30.2016	Congressman Seth Moulton to Announce his U.S.-Iraq Policy to Secure Military and Political Peace August 30th, 2016 At the United States Institute of Peace, Moulton will outline his strategy Salem, MA — Over the past year, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) has conducted an extensive review of U.S. policies in Iraq, including three oversight visits to Iraq as a member of the House Armed Services Committee to meet with military generals, top foreign policy leaders, and our troops on the ground. In his recent Op-Ed in The Washington Post, Moulton argued that U.S. policies “have yet to articulate a political plan to ensure Iraq’s long-term stability.” On September 13th, Moulton will announce his proposed strategy and make recommendations for U.S.-Iraq policy that he says are critical to defeating ISIS and helping stabilize the Middle East. Following his speech at the United States Institute of Peace (USIP), Moulton will take part in a Q&A session moderated by USIP President, Nancy Lindborg. WHO: Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) Nancy Lindborg, President, U.S. Institute of Peace (moderator) WHAT: A speech and moderated Q&A, “How to Stabilize Iraq: A Marine in Congress Speaks” – Congressman Moulton argues that the U.S. should broaden and energize its efforts in Iraq WHERE: U.S. Institute of Peace, 2301 Constitution Ave., NW, Washington, DC 20037 This event will also be live-streamed online. WHEN: Tuesday September 13, 2016 from 3:00PM-4:30PM RSVP REQUIRED: Please contact Paul Johnson at202-429-7174 or via e-mail at pjohnson@usip.org to RSVP and for further information. All registration requests must be submitted by Monday, September 12th at 5 p.m. For more information about Congressman Seth Moulton visit our website or connect with the Congressman on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and Medium. ###
08.25.2016	Moulton Announces $1.4 Million Federal Investment in Endicott College and North Shore Innoventures to Create 335 New Jobs August 25th, 2016 Funding will go towards expanding the region’s biotech industry with a new business incubator space Salem, MA – Today, the Office of Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) announced that the U.S. Department of Commerce¹s Economic Development Administration (EDA) has awarded a $1.4 million dollar grant to Endicott College and North Shore InnoVentures in Beverly. This investment will create nearly 350 new jobs in the district and significantly expand the region¹s biotech industry, while spurring private investment in the life sciences sector. “This substantial federal investment in Beverly will expand our region’s biotech innovation sector and create nearly 400 jobs right here in the district,” said Congressman Seth Moulton. “I’m grateful to the Department of Commerce for making an investment that will enhance economic development, create new jobs, and solidify our state¹s role as a national leader in the life-sciences industry.” “We are very appreciative of the EDA investment that will help us move forward with the biotech incubator expansion of the Ginger Judge Science Center,” said Dr. Richard E. Wylie, President of Endicott College. “The new facilities will allow additional startup companies to establish themselves on the North Shore, and expand academic and internship opportunities for students in developing a highly skilled biotechnology workforce within the region. Since arriving at Endicott College, Dr. Gene Wong has helped to develop the infrastructure and academic, corporate, and government partnerships to make the North Shore an attractive location to start a biotechnology company. The partnership that we have with North Shore InnoVentures in this venture will generate significant positive returns to the regional economy.” “The regional impact of this project will be the hundreds of jobs created by startups in the North Shore InnoVentures program that will be resident in this new biotech incubator facility,” said Martha C. Farmer, PhD, President and CEO of North Shore InnoVentures. “We accelerate the growth of biotech startups that demonstrate the potential to positively impact lives through their technology. Working with Endicott College to expand the NSIV incubation program at the new facilities gives us an exciting opportunity to grow together. We are grateful to EDA and Endicott College for this testament to our effectiveness and their faith in us. We have already assisted 38 startups who have collectively created 270 jobs in our region and this will more than double our capacity.” EDA’s investment will support the construction of a life science and business incubator space at Endicott College¹s campus in Beverly. The incubator space will expand opportunities in the life sciences for startups, and the campus community, leading to job creation and private investment in the life-sciences in northeastern Massachusetts. This federal investment is expected to create 335 jobs. “The Economic Development Administration plays an important role in supporting the Commerce Department’s ‘Open for Business’ agenda which focuses on advancing innovation and strengthening our nation’s global competitiveness,” said U.S. Secretary of Commerce, Penny Pritzker. “The EDA investment announced today supports business growth in Massachusetts¹s distinguished life-sciences sector.” For more information about Congressman Seth Moulton visit our website or connect with the Congressman on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and Medium. ###
08.19.2016	Moulton Secures Significant New Federal Investment for Lynn GE Facility August 19th, 2016 The federal contract will support new jobs in the Sixth District and contribute to protecting our service men and women Salem, MA – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) announced that the United States Army Contracting Command (ACC) has awarded GE Aviation a 24-month contract to lead the design of its GE3000 engine for the Improved Turbine Engine Program (ITEP). Moulton has been a key advocate for securing this contract in Lynn, working closely with GE to understand how the project supports our country’s national security and defense capabilities and actively championing the project in a letter of support sent to the Department of the Army. “This is great news for our region and provides exciting momentum for our LEAD team efforts in Lynn,” said Moulton. “This contract will grow good-paying jobs, and it shows that GE Lynn is positioned to compete aggressively for a leading role in GE’s future engineering and advanced manufacturing needs.” This federal investment contract will support more than 100 engineers, primarily located at the GE Aviation facility in Lynn, MA. Designing, manufacturing, and supporting T700 engines for the Army’s Black Hawk and Apache helicopters has been a significant part of GE Lynn’s business for decades. Today, GE is aggressively working to ensure that this next generation engine can deliver improved capability for our service men and women in the U.S. Army. “The GE3000 integrates technologies demonstrated in two Army Science & Technology programs, the Advanced Affordable Turbine Engine (AATE) and the Future Affordable Turbine Engine (FATE) and includes additional technologies developed across GE’s military and commercial engine portfolio,” said Harry Nahatis, general manager of GE Aviation’s Advanced Turboshaft/Turboprop projects. “The GE3000 builds upon our extensive experience powering the Black Hawk and Apache helicopters with the T700 engine, one of the most reliable and maintainable engines in service today. Combining that experience with proven technologies enables dramatic yet affordable capability improvements. The GE3000 features the latest diagnostic and prognostic tools with a uniquely maintainable architecture to provide the Army with the flexibility to improve readiness with the lowest life cycle costs.” The GE3000 is a 3,000 shaft horsepower engine that will provide advanced turboshaft propulsion capability for the Army’s Black Hawk and Apache helicopters. Derivatives of the engine are expected to power versions of the Army’s Future Vertical Lift aircraft. The GE3000 delivers the Army’s requirements for fuel efficiency and lower maintenance cost. In addition, it provides 50% more power as well as increased performance in difficult conditions. For more information about Congressman Seth Moulton visit our website or connect with the Congressman on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and Medium. ###
08.15.2016	Burlington Fire Department Awarded $578,112 FEMA Grant August 15th, 2016 Federal grant will enable fire department to hire four additional firefighters Salem, MA – Today, the Office of Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) announced that a $578,112 grant from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has been awarded to the Burlington Fire Department. The Staffing for Adequate Fire & Emergency Response (SAFER) grant will allow for the department to bring four new firefighters onto the team. “Our firefighters put their lives on the line for the people of Burlington,” said Moulton. “It’s critical that we ensure our local fire departments have the resources and staffing capacity they need to compete their important work, and this federal grant will better enable the Burlington Fire Department to provide critical emergency response services to our community.” “As you know it has been extremely difficult for many years for local fire departments to provide emergency response services to ever increasing call volume with limited and stagnant staffing levels,” said Burlington Fire Chief, Steven Yetman. “This is tremendous news for our town and our department. We’d like to thank Congressman Moulton for his efforts and continued support of public safety.” SAFER grants are awarded to fire departments, national, state, local, or tribal organizations that represent the interests of volunteer firefighters. For more information about Congressman Seth Moulton visit our website or connect with the Congressman on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and Medium. ###
08.12.2016	Congressman Moulton Tours North Shore Health Clinic August 12th, 2016 Moulton meets with staff to hear about their work to respond to a variety of community health challenges Salem, MA – Yesterday, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) toured the North Shore Health Clinic in Salem to meet with the staff about the care they provide and hear about their work to respond to a variety of community health challenges. Moulton also visited the center in April to announce two federal grants he worked to secure totaling $677,083 for the North Shore Community Health, Inc. and Lynn Community Health Center to fund expanded addiction treatment services. “The North Shore Community Health Clinic provides comprehensive and accessible primary care for residents in our region and plays a key role in developing innovative responses to a wide variety of local community health challenges,” said Moulton. “I was grateful for the opportunity to hear directly from Maggie Brennan and the health clinic staff about their work and needs, and I remain committed to being an advocate for our local community health centers.” In 2015, NSCH provided services to more than 14,000 patients through more than 57,000 visits at four services sites: the Salem Family Health Center, the Teen Health Center at Salem High School, the Gloucester Family Health Center, and the Peabody Family Health Center. “On behalf of the patients, staff and Board of North Shore Community Health, we were delighted to host Rep. Moulton’s visit to Salem Family Health Center,” said Margaret Brennan, CEO of North Shore Community Health, Inc.“The Congressman has been a tireless and committed advocate for the health center and our patients, especially those who are most vulnerable – patients battling opiate addiction. We know we can continue to count on him and were pleased to introduce him to our services and staff.” To learn more about Congressman Moulton visit his website or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
08.12.2016	Moulton and Bipartisan Group of Lawmakers to NDAA Conferees: Support the Afghan Special Immigrant Visa Program August 12th, 2016 “We urge you to stand in strong support of our national security and, in recognition of the sacrifice of our Afghan allies.” Salem, MA – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) and 29 other members of the U.S. House of Representatives sent a letter urging Fiscal Year (FY) 2017 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) conferees to extend the Afghan special immigrant visa (SIV) program, authorize additional visas, and retain the future viability of the program by protecting current SIV eligibility guidelines. “We urge you to stand in strong support of our national security and, in recognition of the sacrifice of our Afghan allies, to authorize additional visas for SIV applicants and to protect current SIV guidelines,” the bipartisan group of lawmakers wrote. “In previous years, Congress has used the NDAA to demonstrate our strong support to these important allies while assuring others across the globe that the United States will stand by its commitments in future missions. We urge you to continue to do so.” On July 14, the Senate overwhelmingly passed a motion to instruct NDAA conferees to extend the program for one year and to provide additional visas. In their letter, the lawmakers encouraged conferees to follow the Senate-passed motion. Additionally, the lawmakers urged conferees to retain current eligibility guidelines for the Afghan SIV program. During House consideration of NDAA, language was included that would restrict program eligibility to exclude Afghans who worked in U.S. consulates, embassies, or military bases. These restrictions could have a harmful impact not only on those Afghans that worked on-base with U.S. troops, or in any number of capacities with U.S. diplomats, but also on future military operations that may rely on the support services of local populations. Included below is the text of the letter: Dear Chairmen McCain and Thornberry, Ranking Members Reed and Smith, and Conferees: During conference committee consideration of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year (FY) 2017, we encourage you to follow the Senate-passed motion to instruct conferees to include language to extend the Afghan special immigrant visa (SIV) program and authorize additional visas, while also retaining the future viability of this critical program. The Afghan SIV program was first enacted through the Afghan Allies Protection Act of 2009 to provide a life-saving path to safety for Afghan nationals who worked alongside U.S. troops, diplomats, and contractors, and who face serious danger as a result of that work. Since then, the program has been extended and reformed numerous times, each time with significant bipartisan and bicameral support. This year, Congress must act so that the State Department can continue to issue visas to Afghans who face imminent threat from the Taliban and other hostile groups because of their service to the U.S. and our allies. Prominent military leaders, diplomats, and national security experts, including Gen. John Nicholson, Gen. Stanley McChrystal, Gen. David Petraeus, and Amb. Ryan Crocker, have urged Congress to take action, noting that this program is essential to U.S. national security and credibility amongst our allies. The Administration aims to issue the remaining authorized visas by the end of this calendar year. Meanwhile, there are thousands of Afghans at some stage in the SIV process and qualified individuals continue to apply. That is why the President, in his FY2017 budget, asked Congress to authorize additional visas to help address the remaining backlog of applicants. Without further congressional action, the State Department will exhaust its current supply of visas, essentially halting the SIV program, stranding these valuable allies and sending a discouraging message to allies involved in future engagements. We urge you to authorize these additional visas to prevent a shutdown of the SIV program. During the House’s consideration of H.R. 4909, language was included in Section 1216 that would restrict program eligibility to exclude Afghans who worked in U.S. consulates, embassies, or military bases. These restrictions could have a harmful impact on those Afghans that worked on-base with U.S. troops, or in any number of capacities with U.S. diplomats, because they are just as likely to face danger if their service becomes known to forces hostile to the United States. We urge you to retain current eligibility guidelines for the Afghan SIV program. These allies risked their lives to serve the United States and we owe it to them to ensure their safety. We urge you to stand in strong support of our national security and, in recognition of the sacrifice of our Afghan allies, to authorize additional visas for SIV applicants and to protect current SIV guidelines. In previous years, Congress has used the NDAA to demonstrate our strong support to these important allies while assuring others across the globe that the United States will stand by its commitments in future missions. We urge you to continue to do so. To learn more about Congressman Moulton visit his website or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
08.11.2016	In Boston Globe Letter to the Editor, Massachusetts Delegation Stands United in Support for Attorney General August 11th, 2016 Delegation argues Maura Healey’s leadership has already proven effective Salem, MA – Today, in a Letter to the Editor in The Boston Globe, the Massachusetts Congressional delegation shared its unanimous support for Attorney General Maura Healey’s efforts to enforce our state’s assault weapons ban. The delegation expresses its steadfast support for Healey’s efforts to protect our communities from gun violence. Here is what they wrote: To the Editor: We are proud to stand united in our support for Attorney General Maura Healey as she courageously works to enforce the assault weapons ban. Maura Healey is not creating new laws. She is enforcing a law the state legislature put on the books nearly 20 years ago to protect our communities from gun violence. And as Attorney General, she has that authority and responsibility. Massachusetts has already seen a decline in assault weapon sales and significant compliance by manufacturers and gun dealers since the announcement. Healey’s leadership is making our communities safer. Furthermore, the hateful rhetoric used against her is disgraceful and does nothing to further the debate or make our communities better. Hate speech has no place in our Commonwealth. Sincerely, Senator Elizabeth Warren Senator Edward J. Markey Representative Richard E. Neal Representative James McGovern Representative Niki Tsongas Representative Joseph P. Kennedy III Representative Katherine Clark Representative Seth Moulton Representative Michael E. Capuano Representative Stephen F. Lynch Representative William Keating To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or find the Congressman on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and Medium. ###
08.10.2016	Congressman Moulton Launches Annual Peter J. Gomes Service Award August 10th, 2016 Award to be given to Sixth District resident who epitomizes integrity, compassion, and commitment to community Salem, MA – This week, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) announced the establishment of The Peter J. Gomes Service Award, to be given annually to the individual in the Sixth District who best epitomizes the qualities of integrity, compassion, and commitment to community that were the foundation of the late Reverend Professor Peter J. Gomes’ teachings. “Reverend Gomes was my mentor and my friend,” said Moulton. “He once wrote, “The very definition of service is to love our neighbors as ourselves, work for peace and not for war, and remember that the only hands on earth to do the work of service are our own.” His example influenced my own journey to serve in the Marines, and later as a Member of Congress. I am honored to establish this award here in the Sixth District to honor his legacy and commitment to public service.” The Reverend Professor Peter J. Gomes was a Christian minister who served for nearly forty years in The Memorial Church of Harvard University, a space erected to honor the Harvard public servants who died in World War I. As a preacher, teacher, author, and leader, he influenced many with his ready wit and wisdom and, perhaps above all, with his commitment to service, whether to his immediate community, in support of those in the armed forces, or to universal humanitarian causes. Nominations can be submitted on Congressman Moulton’s website, here. The nomination period will close on August 27, 2016, and the award will be presented on Sunday, September 11, 2016. The ceremony will take place at 9:00 a.m. in the Lynn English High School Auditorium and will be directly followed by a Day of Service in recognition of the anniversary of September 11th. The Day of Service is being put on in coordination with local nonprofits and local AmeriCorps and City Year members. To learn more about Congressman Moulton visit his website or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
08.05.2016	Startup Day Across America – Successful Roundtable with Congressman Moulton and Local Startups August 5th, 2016 Moulton: “Startups are the backbone of our nation’s economy.” Salem, MA – Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA), in partnership with the Middlesex 3 Coalition and Northeastern University, celebrated Startup Day Across America this week by hosting a roundtable discussion with more than 100 entrepreneurs, business leaders, and government officials. The group came together to discuss the challenges and opportunities facing the startup community in the Sixth District and the Commonwealth. “Startups are the backbone of our nation’s economy and encouraging the creation and growth of such companies is critical for our region,” said Moulton. “Our roundtable discussion on Startup Day Across America featured an impressive group of local entrepreneurs that highlighted how startup companies here in the district are creating jobs and producing innovative products to solve real-world challenges. Entrepreneurs often take substantial financial risks in order to get a business off the ground, and it is critical that local entrepreneurs have the support of their elected representatives. That’s why I am committed to continuing to advocate for policies that foster startup innovation and bring new jobs to the Sixth District.” Throughout the hour-long conversation, many issues were addressed including SBIR funding, comprehensive immigration reform, patent reform, and infrastructure costs and improvements. Moulton urged startups, both big and small, to continue to work with their local officials regarding their challenges in an effort to bring policy change to help these businesses grow. “The concerns for startup companies are very different than the concerns of established and small businesses,” said Stephanie Cronin, Executive Director of the Middlesex 3 Coalition. “The Startup Day Across America roundtable highlighted many of these concerns and helped us to understand what startups need to be successful and grow in the Middlesex 3 corridor.” Startup Day Across America started in 2013 as an opportunity for elected officials to connect with local entrepreneurs and startups to learn about their challenges and how government can play a role to help them flourish. The roundtable was co-hosted by the Middlesex 3 Coalition and sponsored by the Kostas Research Institute for Homeland Security at Northeastern University in Burlington, as well as Enterprise Bank. Pictures of the event can be viewed on Congressman Moulton’s Facebook page, here. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton, visit his website or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
08.02.2016	Following Moulton and Hurd’s Advocacy, Obama Administration Announces New Rideshare Policy August 2nd, 2016 Moulton and Hurd committed to continuing to garner bipartisan support for their bill in Congress Salem, MA – Today, Congressmen Seth Moulton (D-MA) and Will Hurd (R-TX) responded to the Obama Administration’s announcement this week clarifying that federal agencies should reimburse federal employees who use rideshare services on official business. The guidance comes after Moulton and Hurd introduced their bipartisan bill, the Modernizing Government Travel Act, to help solidify ridesharing and other innovative transportation services as part of the broader government transportation ecosystem. “As rideshare becomes increasingly important to our transportation network, the federal government should allow its workers to choose the most cost-effective option when they travel,” said Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA). “That’s why I worked with Congressman Hurd to introduce our bipartisan Modernizing Government Travel Act in early July. I was pleased to see the Administration’s announcement this week that they will work to include rideshare services as a reimbursable travel option for federal employees, and I will continue to work with my colleagues in Congress to ensure that this much-needed policy change is solidified for future administrations.” “The federal government is notorious for paying more than it should for basic services, which is why Rep. Moulton and I introduced our bill to allow government employees to use ridesharing apps,” said U.S. Representative Will Hurd (R-TX), who chairs the House Subcommittee on IT, and has been an advocate for modernizing federal IT and embracing new technology. “It’s about time we catch up with the private sector and move the needle toward a more innovative and responsive government. I will continue to advocate for this legislation so that future administrations remain on the forefront of innovation. ” Moulton and Hurd’s bill would give federal employees greater flexibility and choice when they travel on official business, and as a result, bring government travel into the 21st century and save taxpayer dollars. To learn more about Congressman Moulton, visit www.moulton.house.gov or find the Congressman on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
07.29.2016	Moulton Returns from the Middle East July 29th, 2016 Speaks with service members and military leaders, receives an on-the-ground update on the fight against ISIS Salem, MA – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) returned from a weeklong fact finding mission in the Middle East, including stops in Afghanistan, Bahrain, Qatar, Kuwait, Iraq, and Turkey. Moulton, who sits on the House Armed Services Committee, joined the Chairman of the committee, Mac Thornberry (R-TX), and Congressman Rodney Frelinghuysen (R-NJ), Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee. The bipartisan Congressional delegation met with troops as well as military and foreign leaders in an effort to deepen relationships with regional partners, and examine the fight against ISIS. “The military leaders and service members I met with over the last week exhibit the utmost professionalism and expertise,” said Moulton. “They have a plan to win the war, which they are executing with precision, but they continue to lack a strategy to secure the long-term peace in the region. In my capacity as a House Armed Services Committee member, I will continue to closely monitor the situation in the Middle East. I will ask tough questions of our leaders and demand a strategy that will help to stabilize the region and defeat ISIS. Looking ahead, as we elect a new president, we must remember the seriousness of the fight against ISIS. We need a leader who will both stand up to ISIS and stand by our allies.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit his website, or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
07.12.2016	Moulton Advocates for Better Bipartisan Oversight of National Addiction Services July 12th, 2016 Bipartisan group of lawmakers call on Government Accountability Office to review federal and state oversight of sober homes Washington, D.C. – Last week, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) and a group of bipartisan lawmakers sent a letter to the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO), Congress’ investigative arm, requesting a review of federal and state oversight of sober homes. This follows a similar request from Senators Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), Orrin Hatch (R-UT), and Marco Rubio (R-FL). “Sober homes can provide a vital service for people who have completed addiction treatment and need a safe place to live as they transition back into everyday life,” said Moulton. “Yet, in far too many cases, these spaces are not providing the necessary support for their residents. We need better data on and oversight of sober homes, and that’s why I’m urging the GAO to investigate so that we ensure sober homes are an effective resource for the communities they serve.” Sober homes aim to assist addicts who have completed addiction treatment as they transition back into everyday life in a residential, community environment. There has been a rise in unregulated sober homes across the country in the past several years. This has resulted in a lack of support for the residents they aim to serve and led to serious problems for neighbors and local governments. In the letter, Moulton calls on the GAO to obtain information on a number of key factors, including the number of sober homes in each state, how many individuals they serve, how they can be regulated at each level of government, how effective their services are, and their relationship with Medicaid and other federally-funded healthcare programs. A copy of the letter can be found here. The letter was also signed by Reps. Alcee Hastings (D-FL), Lois Frankel (D-FL), Chris Stewart (R-UT), Dana Rohrabacher (R-CA), Jim McGovern (D-MA), Ken Calvert (R-CA), Ted Deutch (D-FL), Ed Royce (R-CA), Bill Keating (D-MA), Darrell Issa (R-CA), Frederica Wilson (D-FL), Rob Bishop (R-UT), Katherine Clark (D-MA), Jason Chaffetz (R-UT), Carlos Curbelo (R-FL), and Mia Love (R-UT). To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit his website, or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
07.06.2016	Moulton and Hurd Introduce Bipartisan Bill to Make Government More Efficient, Save Taxpayer Dollars July 6th, 2016 Bill will bring government travel into the 21st century Washington, D.C. – Today, Representatives Seth Moulton (D-MA), Will Hurd (R-TX), Eric Swalwell (D-CA), Darrell Issa (R-CA), Mark Meadows (R-NC), and Cheri Bustos (D-IL) introduced the Government Travel Modernization Act, to help solidify ridesharing and other innovative transportation services as part of the broader government transportation ecosystem. This bill would give federal employees greater flexibility and choice when they travel on official business, and as a result, bring government travel into the 21st century. “Innovative modes of transportation like Uber, Lyft, and bikeshare have improved the way we travel, yet currently, federal employees are not able to take full advantage of these cost-effective options for official travel,” said Rep. Moulton. “This bipartisan bill will change that for the thousands of federal employees both in Washington and in Massachusetts. This bill seeks to bring innovation into how government functions by utilizing the new technology that is available to us.” “The federal government is notoriously behind-the-times with antiquated policies that stifle innovation and 21st Century competition. The result is a government that rewards outdated technology and pays more than it should for basic services,” said Rep. Hurd, who chairs the House Subcommittee on IT, and has been an advocate for modernizing federal IT and embracing new technology. “This bill finally allows federal employees to catch up with the private sector and moves the needle toward a more innovative and responsive government.” “At our request, the General Services Administration earlier this year agreed to remind agencies that they can reimburse employees’ ridesharing expenses for official travel. Now I believe it’s time to require agencies to do so,” said Rep. Swalwell, co-chairman of the bipartisan Sharing Economy Caucus and an original co-sponsor of the Modernizing Government Travel Act. “This bipartisan bill will save taxpayers valuable money and time. I’ve always said that good government requires keeping up with the times.” “This bill helps bring the federal government into the 21st century,” said Rep. Issa. “When technology brings about a more efficient and more affordable option, we should do what we can to ensure that federal employees are able to access it to both their benefit and to the benefit of taxpayers.” “Keeping transportation options for federal workers updated to reflect the most cost-effective technology available is something that we should always be looking for,” said Rep. Meadows. “I was pleased to be able to work with my colleagues on this effort, and I look forward to continuing the conversation as we move toward a solution.” “I’m proud to be a part of the bipartisan coalition of leaders who are working to make government more efficient and cost-effective,” said Rep. Bustos. “By modernizing the way government employees are allowed to travel, we’ll save taxpayer dollars, improve performance and help bring the federal government into the 21st century.” The bill would require the General Services Administration (GSA) to implement regulations to allow federal employees to use alternative transportation options such as Uber, Lyft, and bike-share for official travel. The GSA Administrator would be required to submit annual reports to Congress on the implementation of these regulations and the resulting amount of government savings. While GSA allows agencies to authorize the use of these transportation options by federal employees, it has not, nor is it required by law, to issue comprehensive guidance. Consequently, agencies and their employees may be unaware that they have these transportation options available to them for reimbursement. The Government Travel Modernization Act would provide greater clarity to the millions of employees serving in our federal government and encourage the use of new technology and innovation that increases efficiency and decreases costs. As we continue to find ways to bring the federal government into the 21st Century, this legislation will increase our engagement in the sharing economy while saving taxpayer dollars and reducing federal spending. “Ridesharing continues to grow as as an integral part of this country’s transportation ecosystem,” said David Baga, chief business officer, Lyft. “As we see more and more business travelers choose cost-effective services like Lyft over traditional car services, the introduction of this bill is an important step in bringing modern transportation options to federal employees.” “Thank you to the sponsors for putting forth this legislation that will make it easier and more affordable for thousands of federal employees to travel for work,” said Niki Christoff, Head of Federal Affairs for Uber. “We are committed to providing reliable transportation at the push of a button for everyone, everywhere and we’re hopeful that with this legislation, Uber, and all ridesharing options, will be able to provide that service to those working in the federal government.” To learn more about Congressman Moulton, visit www.moulton.house.gov or find the Congressman on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
06.27.2016	Moulton’s Office Announces Rockport Awarded $1.2 Million in Federal Funding to Repair Damage from Severe Winter Storms June 27th, 2016 Federal grant will assist Rockport in rebuilding harbor entrance breakwater Salem, MA – Today, the Office of Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) announced that the town of Rockport has been awarded a $1,205,635.50 federal grant from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to repair Rockport’s Harbor Entrance breakwater. Moulton’s staff worked closely with the town of Rockport and FEMA officials throughout the grant application process. “These federal resources will enable Rockport to rebuild the Harbor Entrance breakwater, an area that was damaged by severe winter storms and is now in need of serious repair,” said Moulton. “This is great news for our district, and I am grateful to FEMA for their substantial investment in Rockport’s future.” The breakwater resides in Pigeon Cove in Rockport which provides mooring for commercial and recreational boats. The two breakwater exposures provide much needed protection to Pigeon Cove. “After being badly damaged by storms over the last few years, Rockport applied to FEMA for mitigation work to upgrade the seawalls around the harbor. FEMA agreed with this until the very end of the process when the town was told they would not receive the mitigation money,” said Bruce Reed, a DPW Commissioner in Rockport. “The DPW in Rockport felt that to protect one of the Commonwealth’s largest ports of the landing of lobster, it was imperative that the Breakwater work be completed. At this point we contacted Congressman Seth Moulton’s office and were directed to Morgan Bell, one of Congressman Moulton’s District Representatives. Within a couple of days we were notified that the project was going to include the mitigation work. If it wasn’t for Congressman Moulton’s intervention, the livelihood of many lobstermen would have been at risk. We recognize the project would not have reached the positive conclusion without Congressman Moulton’s commitment and perseverance to getting the project done.” To learn more about Congressman Moulton, visit www.moulton.house.gov or find the Congressman on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
06.24.2016	Moulton, Curbelo, Bipartisan Group of Members Introduce Legislation to Prevent Terrorists from Buying Firearms June 24th, 2016 Moulton: “This bipartisan bill will help to keep weapons out of the hands of terrorists and those who seek to do our country harm.” Washington, D.C.—Today, a bipartisan group of Members in the House, representing vastly different regions of our country, came together to introduce legislation that will deny the sale of firearms to those on “No-Fly” lists. H.R. 5576, the House-companion to the bipartisan Terrorist Firearms Prevention Act led by Sen. Collins (R-ME), was introduced by Reps. Seth Moulton (D-MA), Carlos Curbelo (R-FL), Peter King (R-NY), Mike Thompson (D-CA), Bob Dold (R-IL), Robin Kelly (D-IL), Scott Rigell (R-VA), Tulsi Gabbard (D-HI), and John Carney (D-DE). Specifically, this bipartisan legislation would: Prevent individuals on the “No-Fly” and Selectee lists from legally purchasing firearms and explosives. Create a process for Americans and legal permanent residents to appeal a denial in the Federal Court. Protect ongoing counter-terrorism investigations by giving the Attorney General the discretion to allow gun sales to go forward when a denial would impede an ongoing investigation. Implement a five-year “look-back” provision to immediately notify the Attorney General and federal, state, and local law enforcement if anyone who is or was entered into the broader Terrorist Screening Database attempts to buy a gun from a licensed dealer. Rep. Seth Moulton offered the following statement: “Our constituents didn’t send us to Washington to stand in silence. They sent us to Washington to keep our communities safe. This bipartisan bill will help to keep weapons out of the hands of terrorists and those who seek to do our country harm. It’s time to put party aside and come together to make progress for the American people. Today, we’re doing that in Congress.” Rep. Carlos Curbelo offered the following statement: “We must protect Americans from the ever increasing threat of terrorism and violent acts of hatred here at home while we fight radical jihadists overseas. After the horrific massacre in Orlando, and countless other mass shootings across the country, the American people want answers. Congress must act, at the very least, to ensure individuals on the No-Fly list and “selectee” list cannot purchase a firearm. This legislation does just that and ensures due process for law-abiding citizens. I commend Senator Collins and her bipartisan group of colleagues for their tireless work in building significant consensus on this issue. The bipartisan, bicameral effort to pass this legislation should be a top priority for Congress, and I will not rest until we keep firearms out of the hands of dangerous terrorists while protecting Second Amendment rights for law-abiding Americans who pose no threat to the homeland.” Rep. Bob Dold offered the following statement: “Stopping gun violence requires more than moments of silence – we need action. I’ve been working to keep guns out of the hands of known or suspected terrorists since my first term in Congress,” Rep. Dold said. “The only way we’re going to actually make progress to keep families safe is through bipartisan action. This bipartisan, bicameral proposal to keep dangerous weapons away from those who wish to do our country harm, while protecting due process, is an important step forward and a bipartisan solution we should all be able to get behind.” Rep. Tulsi Gabbard offered the following statement: “We owe it to the American people to work together to try to get sensible gun control legislation actually passed—and in order to do that, it must be a bipartisan effort. Majorities in both parties agree with the vast majority of the American people—we need to keep guns out of the hands of terrorists. However, we must also ensure that any action we take does not compromise the rights to due process guaranteed to every citizen. There are valid constitutional concerns related to the lack of due process and transparency for those who have mistakenly been placed on the No Fly List and Terror Watch List. This legislation is a bipartisan compromise that will help to keep guns out of the hands of terrorists, while protecting our constitutionally-guaranteed civil liberties.” Rep. Scott Rigell offered the following statement: “A terrorist should not be able to fly on a plane or buy a gun. Though that statement reflects common-sense and common ground, legislation that would make it a reality is the subject of divisive debate in Washington. There has always been tension between our liberty and our safety, but advancing both can be done. If a person is deemed too dangerous to board a plane, they’re too dangerous to purchase a firearm. Our legislation affects the approximately 3,000 Americans (or 0.00001% of the population) who our intelligence agencies have determined pose a significant threat to our national security. This is common-sense, bipartisan, bicameral legislation that allows us to achieve both by prohibiting an individual on the ‘No-Fly list or Selectee lists from purchasing a firearm, while also providing a fully sufficient legal mechanism that guarantees due process. I am proud to stand with my colleagues in introducing this needed legislation today.” Rep. Mike Thompson offered the following statement: “An overwhelming majority of Americans agree that if you’re too dangerous to fly, you’re too dangerous to buy a gun. Congress has a responsibility to listen to the will of the people, put partisan politics aside and do what it takes to help keep Americans safe by making sure suspected terrorists don’t have easy access to guns. And that’s what this bipartisan, commonsense legislation is all about.” Rep. Peter King offered the following statement: “After September 11th, common sense dictates that the federal government stop gun sales to suspects on the terrorist watch list. Federal law already prohibits nine categories of dangerous persons from purchasing or possessing firearms, including the mentally ill and criminals. Yet, after almost 15 years, we still allow suspected terrorists the ability to purchase firearms . It’s time for common sense to prevail before it’s too late.” Rep. Robin Kelly offered the following statement: “Common sense gun violence prevention has been my top priority since being elected to Congress. I am pleased that a handful of brave and honorable Republican colleagues have taken a stand and reached out to work with Democrats on the simplest of measures: keeping guns away from terrorists. The last two days have been a watershed moment. I truly hope that the leadership of Senator Collins is the beginning of bipartisanship in addressing our nation’s gun violence epidemic. This is a problem we can only solve by working together.” Rep. John Carney offered the following statement: “Time and time again we’ve seen the price of inaction on gun control. We’ve seen countless mass shootings and lost the lives of loved ones across the country. The American people are frustrated, as are many of my colleagues here in Congress. I’m proud to help lead this bipartisan effort in the House. The only way we can take meaningful action, action that our constituents are urging us to take, is to work with both sides of the aisle. I hope we can continue to move forward on this common-sense measure to keep guns out of the hands of those wishing to do us harm.” Click here for a summary of the legislation. To learn more about Congressman Moulton, visit www.moulton.house.gov or find the Congressman on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
06.23.2016	Congressman Moulton Joins Rep. John Lewis on House Floor Sit-In, Demanding Action on Gun Legislation June 23rd, 2016 Moulton delivers remarks on the House floor Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) delivered the following remarks on the floor of the House as he joined a sit-in to demand a vote on common sense gun reform legislation. Remarks as delivered: “I came to this House from the United States Marine Corps. I had to carry an assault rifle every single day to do my job. I’ve seen the effects of gun violence firsthand. I know what it looks like when someone gets shot. I know what it looks like when one of your friends and colleagues is bleeding out on the battlefield. There is no place for that on America’s streets. There is no place for that in America’s schools. There is no place for that in America’s movie theaters. There is no place for that in America’s nightclubs. There is a big difference between a Marine or a soldier who is trained for hours upon hours, months upon months on the rifle range to know how to use a weapon safely. There’s a big difference between that and a civilian or a terrorist who can walk into a gun shop or a gun show or go online and legally buy weapons of war today. Every single amendment to the Constitution has reasonable restrictions. Even the first amendment has reasonable restrictions. In fact, even the second amendment has reasonable restrictions. I not only carried an assault rifle with me every day, I carried a grenade. I was trained to use a grenade and carry it safely. But we have made a decision as a society that we will not allow civilians to walk around with grenades. We don’t allow civilians to walk around with landmines or rockets. There are lots of weapons of war that are reasonably restricted here at home. I support the second amendment as does just about everybody on the floor today. But you don’t have to be opposed to the second amendment to support reasonable restrictions to keep our country safe. And what we’re asking for is reasonable. If you’re on the no fly list and not allowed to fly, you should not be able to buy a gun. And if there are problems with the no fly list, then let’s fix it. But tell me this, if there are so many problems with the no fly list, why do we have the no fly list? Why are these people not allowed to fly? I’m sure that has nothing to do with the fact that everybody in this body flies home every weekend. Is the freedom to travel not afforded to Americans? Is that not a right that we care about? Do we live in a government that can tell you, you cannot board a plane just arbitrarily? No. That is a basic freedom. It’s so basic that we didn’t even have to include it in the Bill of Rights. If there is a problem with the no fly list, then let’s fix it. Universal background checks. Nine out of ten Americans believes we ought to have universal background checks to buy a gun. Now, think about the system we have today. Think about it in terms of flying. Imagine if our security system for the TSA were that if you went up to the airline ticket counter to buy a ticket, you had to go through security. But, if you buy that same ticket online, don’t worry about it, you just go right around. That’s the system we have, those are the laws we have for buying guns today. That’s absurd. It’s absolutely absurd. How many of you would get on a plane if you saw everybody around you who bought their ticket online just going right around you? I don’t think any of us would be comfortable flying. And yet, that’s perfectly acceptable when it comes to buying guns. When Speaker Ryan took that seat, that chair, that is vacant right now, he spoke about working with Democrats and Republicans. And he said specifically that if we could just have an intellectually honest debate in this House, we could do some good things for the American people. Well, it’s not intellectually honest if you can’t even conduct a study on gun violence. It’s not intellectually honest if we cannot even have a debate in the House of Representatives on reasonable restrictions to keep communities safe. It’s not intellectually honest if we can’t even be on TV when we are here because the Speaker of the House has shut off the TV cameras. And it’s not intellectually honest if we cannot even have a vote. Fundamentally, what we are asking for tonight is just a bit of honesty. It’s honesty to do our jobs and represent the American people. When nine out of ten Americans out there in our country agree with what we are asking for and think that it’s reasonable, we ought to just do our jobs. That’s what we are here to do. Do our jobs for the American people. Let’s do our job.” Watch full speech here. To learn more about Congressman Moulton, visit www.moulton.house.gov or find the Congressman on Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram, or Medium. ###
06.21.2016	Moulton Statement on the Senate Republicans’ Failure to Pass Common Sense Gun Reform June 21st, 2016 Moulton: “Republican support for the NRA over the American people is shameful.” Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) released the following statement in response to the Senate Republicans’ failure to pass common sense gun reform: “Last night the United States Senate had the opportunity to vote on two ideas that the overwhelming majority of Americans support: universal background checks for all gun purchases, and keeping guns out of the hands of terrorists. Senate Republicans failed to pass either. Republican support for the NRA over the American people is shameful. Despite last night’s disappointing result, we will not be deterred. Let’s remember that neither the vote nor the debate would have occurred if not for a marathon filibuster led by Senator Chris Murphy and Senate Democrats. Even a debate and a vote on these important issues is a step in the right direction, and we must keep that momentum going. I’ll continue to reach out to Republicans to find consensus, as we can’t let the perfect be the enemy of the good. We owe the American people better.”
06.20.2016	Moulton Calls on Secretary John Kerry to meet US Commitment to Syrian Refugees June 20th, 2016 House GOP continues to push for shut down of refugee resettlement program Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressmen Seth Moulton (D-MA), David Cicilline (D-NJ), and Bill Pascrell (D-NJ), sent a letter to Secretary of State John Kerry calling on the State Department to meet its stated goal of screening and resettling 10,000 Syrian refugees by the end of this fiscal year. This letter comes as House Republicans introduce legislation to shut down refugee resettlement. To date, the State Department has settled only 2,805 Syrian refugees in the first eight months of this fiscal year. “We need to do more to fulfill our commitment to Syrian refugees,” said Moulton. “These are the people that ISIS is persecuting. There’s nobody who knows the terror of ISIS better than these refugees. When we refuse to help the enemies of ISIS, we empower ISIS and aid their recruitment.” The Syrian Civil War has led to the world’s worst humanitarian crisis and the worst refugee crisis since World War II. As the conflict drags into its fifth year, the numbers of refugees seeking safety outside the country continue to grow. More than 4.8 million Syrians are now registered as refugees and millions more are otherwise displaced. A number of countries have responded by admitting hundreds of thousands of refugees. In the last six months alone, Canada has admitted nearly 27,000 Syrians. The United States has since responded with a commitment to admit 10,000 screened refugees during the 2016 fiscal year. “Throughout our history, the United States has always stood as a beacon of hope for men, women, and children who are facing unspeakable war, famine, and violence in their own countries,” said Cicilline. “It’s critical that we maintain this ideal, and offer assistance and safety for those fleeing the Syrian civil war.” “As a nation of immigrants, we have a moral and legal imperative to lead by example in addressing greatest refugee crisis the world has seen since World War II,’ said Pascrell. “When we make a promise to the world that we will welcome those seeking a better life because they are fleeing war and persecution in their homeland, I expect us to keep our word. It is my hope that at the very least we will meet our goal and continue to lead by example to address the Syrian refugee crisis.” Seventy three Members of Congress signed Moulton’s letter, including House Armed Services Ranking Member Adam Smith (D-WA), House Intelligence Ranking Member Adam Schiff (D-CA), and top Judiciary Democrats John Conyers (D-MI) and Zoe Lofgren (D-CA). The letter also urged the administration to continue the robust screening processes in place to examine refugees before they are permitted into the United States. With the enhanced review program now in place specifically for the Syrian refugee population, the program is subject to the most extensive screenings of any traveler to the United States and includes checks by the Department of Homeland Security, the National Counterterrorism Center, the Intelligence Community, FBI, and State Department. To learn more about Congressman Moulton, visit www.moulton.house.gov or find the Congressman on Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram, or Medium. ###
06.15.2016	Civilians Have No Reason For Owning Assault Weapons, But Congress Lacks The Courage to Stop Them June 15th, 2016 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton’s (D-MA) Op-Ed in response to the horrific mass shooting in Orlando, Florida was featured in the New York Daily News. Link to full column. “My thoughts and prayers are with those in Orlando.” – Rep. Seth Moulton It’s a hollow tradition following each mass shooting, and it has become routine: President Obama gives a speech, reminding us that living this way is a choice. The NRA releases a statement bemoaning the lack of guns at the shooting. And Congress sends their thoughts and prayers. But the victims’ families don’t want our thoughts and prayers. They want our action, preferably before their loved ones are needlessly slaughtered. We have chosen this reality. We have decided as a country that it is easier to periodically bury the innocent than to make tough decisions to address the actual cause of this modern, and uniquely American, scourge. Before the killer’s gun even stopped smoking, some rushed to blame “radical Islam.” Some disgusting individuals even celebrated the attack as a vindication of their repugnant, racist views. We do not yet know all of the facts surrounding this latest act of terror. But we do know that there is only one common factor linking every mass shooting: a gun. I’m a Marine. I carried guns every day in Iraq, guns very similar to the ones used to perpetrate this and many other mass shootings in America. I’ve used guns in combat. On more than one occasion, guns have saved my life. But there’s a big difference between a US Marine with a rifle and a civilian with a gun. I trained for years in order to use my weapon properly. And long before I ever aimed it at an individual, I had to look at pictures of dead and mangled bodies in order to understand the magnitude of what it meant to pull that trigger. So believe me when I tell you: there’s simply no reason for a civilian to own a military-style assault weapon. It’s no different than why we outlaw civilian ownership of rockets and landmines. Thankfully, Congress has the ability and authority to eliminate the civilian sale of these weapons of war. We have before, and we should again. That’s not all. Congress can prevent future tragedies by requiring a background checks for every gun purchase in America. Congress can prevent people on terrorism watch lists from buying guns. And Congress can lift the restrictions on the study of the causes of gun violence, so that we can at the very least better understand why this keeps happening. Most in Congress know this. They know that something is wrong in our country when massive murder sprees become routine. They simply lack the political courage to do something about it. So, spare these innocent victims your thoughts and prayers. Instead, let’s honor their memory by vowing to do everything we can to prevent another senseless slaughter. ###
06.14.2016	Congressman Seth Moulton Walks Out of GOP’s Moment of Silence on Orlando Shooting June 14th, 2016 Moulton: “We need action from Congress, not silence.” Washington, D.C. -Last night, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) took to his Twitter account to respond to the House Republicans’ routine reaction of holding a moment of silence instead of holding a vote on gun reform in the wake of another horrific mass shooting. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or find the Congressman on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and Medium. ###
06.13.2016	Congressman Seth Moulton Statement on Horrific Shooting in Orlando, Florida June 13th, 2016 Washington, D.C. – Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) released the below statement following Sunday’s horrific shooting in Orlando, Florida. “My thoughts and prayers are with all the victims of this morning’s tragic mass shooting, particularly the LGBT community. In these dark days, I hope the love and support of so many millions of Americans will give some solace to those most closely impacted by this horrific shooting. Fear and ignorance will never replace our commitment to fundamental American values, including that of equality. In the days ahead, we will hold those responsible accountable, and I hope Congress will act to confront hate, terror, and gun violence in all forms.” – Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA)
06.08.2016	Moulton to Co-Chair 2016 Congressional App Challenge June 8th, 2016 Representatives Seth Moulton and Ed Royce will spearhead student coding contest Washington, D.C. – Today, the Congressional Internet Caucus and the Internet Education Foundation announced that Congressmen Seth Moulton (D-MA) and Ed Royce (R-CA) will serve as Co-Chairs for the 2016 Congressional App Challenge (CAC). “We are currently on track to reach a million unfilled programming jobs by 2020. These jobs and skills are crucial to the innovation economy,” said Moulton. “I’m excited to serve as co-chair of the Congressional App Challenge with Rep. Ed Royce to encourage students across the country to learn how to code. This challenge is a nationwide effort to open up those opportunities to students in every community, and I look forward to seeing what they create.” “As Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and a representative from the world’s innovation capital, I know how important a STEM proficient workforce is to the United States remaining an economic powerhouse. I encourage all of my colleagues to participate in the Congressional App Challenge, an excellent opportunity to recognize talented young people learning the skills being used to build the future,” said Royce. The 2016 CAC will take place from July 18 – November 2, 2016. Officially in its second year, the Congressional App Challenge is a bipartisan congressional initiative to improve student engagement in coding and computer science. Particular efforts are made to engage those students from groups and regions that are underrepresented in the tech community. Students can create their apps on any platform, working alone or in teams of up to four. Winning apps are selected by local judges, and the student winners will be honored by their Congressional representatives and have their apps put on display in the Capitol Building. In 2015, more than 1,700 high school students from 32 states signed up to compete. The students submitted nearly 500 original apps, with 116 Congressional districts hosting successful local challenges. The House of Representatives displays the winning apps online here. To learn more about Congressman Moulton visit his website or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
06.01.2016	Moulton, Democratic Veterans in Congress Condemn North Carolina’s Anti-LGBT Law for Enabling Discrimination Against Veterans June 1st, 2016 Lawmakers denounce law that will strip away civil rights protections for LGBT community in North Carolina Salem, MA – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) and seven fellow members of Congress who also served in the military urged the Governor of North Carolina, Pat McCrory, to reverse his support for North Carolina’s House Bill 2 (HB2). The law sets a statewide anti-discrimination policy which failed to include protections for LGBT Americans. HB2 also includes a broad prohibition on local governments from passing and enforcing additional anti-discrimination laws. Moulton and his colleagues expressed concern that this undermines existing ordinances that protect not only LGBT Americans, but also disabled Americans and veterans. “It is our Constitutional responsibility to uphold the civil rights of all people, and this law is a blatant effort to strip away protections for the LGBT community in North Carolina,” said Moulton. “This legislation is so sweeping that it has called into question the civil rights of many groups, including our veterans. This is unconscionable.” Moulton, a Marine veteran who served in Iraq, was joined by Congressmen John Conyers, Jr. (Michigan National Guard 1948-1950; Army 1950-1954; U.S. Army Reserves 1954-1957; Korean War), Ruben Gallego (Marine Corps 2000-2006; Iraq War), Ted Lieu (Active Duty Air Force 1992-1996; Air Force Reserves 2000-present), Jim McDermott (Navy psychiatrist 1968-1970; Vietnam War), José Serrano (Army 1964-1966), Mark Takai (Hawaii Army National Guard 1999-present), and Congresswoman Tulsi Gabbard (Hawaii Army National Guard 2003-present, Iraq War). Full letter here. To learn more about Congressman Moulton visit his website or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium.
05.27.2016	Congressman Seth Moulton Delivers Commencement Address at University of Massachusetts Boston May 27th, 2016 Boston, MA – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) delivered the commencement address at the University of Massachusetts Boston. The speech was delivered before 4,262 graduates as well as their families and friends. Below are Moulton’s remarks as prepared for delivery. Congressman Seth Moulton Commencement Address University of Massachusetts Boston Remarks as prepared for delivery May 27, 2016 Thank you President Meehan, Chancellor Motley, Trustees, Faculty, Staff, Families and Guests. And most importantly, congratulations to the Class of 2016! The University of Massachusetts Boston has a proud tradition of excellence and a strong commitment to public service. I’m truly honored to be here with you today. As some of you may know, in preparation for today, I tweeted asking for suggestions about what to talk about, and my “favorite” response came from @Brisokol: “Bring your A game!,” he said. “Obama spoke in 06. Was upstaged by the valedictorian. And he’s a pretty good speaker.” Thanks man – no pressure! You have a lot to be proud of today, and also a lot of people to thank for helping you get here. But what you do next, how you live your life, is all up to you. So I’m going to take the next few minutes—I promise to be brief—to talk about just one thing that will be important for you to succeed in the journey ahead, and that is courage. See, all the things you typically hear in commencement speeches—follow your dreams; make a life, not just a living; get back on the horse when you fall off—I don’t believe any of them are possible without courage. My case to you is this: Courage is rare. Courage matters – much more than we appreciate today. And if you live your life with courage, you will inspire others to do the same. Courage is not being fearless—courage is doing the right thing in spite of your fears. One of my heroes from the Iraq war was Cpl. James Hassell, a Marine in my platoon from Alabama. James was a big guy, a football player in high school, so carrying another Marine on his back was easy for James. But when Ryan in our platoon was hit by a grenade in a fierce firefight, James carried Ryan to safety, not across a sunny football field, but through a treacherous alley of grenades and machine gun fire. James wasn’t fearless; he saved Ryan’s life in spite of his fears. Second, courage is taking a stand for others, not for yourself. Take my friend Ahmad, a ten-year old Syrian refugee who lost three of his siblings and both of his arms in an airstrike on his refugee camp. Ahmad has seen more hardship in ten years than anyone deserves in a lifetime, yet instead of only focusing on his own recovery, he has become an advocate for others. Last January, Ahmad joined me for President Obama’s final State of the Union address, and he brought a letter to the President advocating for the other Syrian children still suffering in that war torn country, and Ahmad is focused on becoming a doctor so he can help kids the way the Boston doctors are helping him. Finally, courage is the willingness to fail. We all know about the opioid crisis. As Gloucester’s Police Chief, Leonard Campanello has confronted it firsthand, and he even spent eight years on the street as a counter-narcotics officer before becoming chief. But he had the courage to admit that his old approach wasn’t working, that we can’t arrest our way out of this problem, and so he took a risk by trying something completely different, an innovative program called the Angel Initiative to help get addicts off the street and into treatment programs. That’s a big risk for a police chief charged to fight crime, and it could have been a total failure, but instead his bold idea has inspired communities around the country to do the same. James, Ahmad, and Chief Campanello are ordinary people who did extraordinary things in spite of their fears, when it wasn’t in their own interest, and with the great risk of failing terribly. Their stories show that courage is not easy. But we don’t need courage because it is easy. We need courage because it is tough. I always tell my team that we will be measured not by how well we do when things are going well, when we’re up in the polls, when public opinion is on our side. We’ll be measured by how we do when it’s hard, when we stand up for what is right but unpopular. It’s doing well under stress, performing when it’s difficult—that matters, not just in a tough final exam or under pressure on the basketball court or soccer field—but out there in life as well. E.E. Cummings, one of the great American poets of the 20th century, tells us, “It takes courage to grow up and become who you really are.” When I graduated from college in June of 2001, I had to make a big decision about who I wanted to grow up and become. I chose to join the Marine Corps–but it wasn’t because I was particularly courageous. Rather, I joined because I was inspired by the 18 and 19 year-old men and women who serve on the front lines of our military. A few months after I graduated and committed to the Marines, 9/11 happened. And a year and a half later, I found myself leading a platoon in combat in Iraq — something that seemed unimaginable when I first joined. From the front lines in Iraq, I could see the effects of bad decisions made in Washington—often politically-convenient decisions that were bad for our troops—and the effects those decisions had on those of us serving. For example, we had to patch together steel cutout doors for our HMMWVs for crude protection against IEDs because politicians weren’t willing to take the political risk of raising taxes to get the troops what we needed—and the Iraq War became the first war in our history where we didn’t all contribute to paying for it. We still see those effects today. Going into the Marines, I had no plans to go into politics; I didn’t grow up in a political family; nor had I even volunteered on a campaign. But I remember one time, at the end of a long day, when one of my Marines looked up at me and said, “Sir, you ought to run for Congress someday so that this stuff doesn’t happen again.” Now, he used a Marine term for “stuff,” but you get what I mean. It seemed like a crazy idea at the time to someone who was—and still is—paying his college loans, but those words stuck with me. I couldn’t just complain about what was happening. I had to do something about it myself. The courageous leaders I worked with in the military, like Cpl. Hassell, and met as a Congressman, like Ahmad and Chief Campanello, remind me that individuals have the power to make a difference — but you need to find the courage to try. You know, a lot of people ask me, “Seth, why is Congress so stupid? Why are folks in Congress so stupid that they don’t believe in climate change or whatever else…?” Well, my observation after a year on the job is that most of my colleagues are pretty smart. What’s lacking in Congress isn’t intelligence—it’s courage. It’s the courage to vote for what you know is right, even if it might be unpopular with your political party or some of your voters back home. That takes courage, and there’s not enough of it in Washington today. So when you see a politician who plays into our worst fears, rather than confronts them. Who stands up for himself, rather than for our values. Who thinks it’s being tough to discriminate. Who has never risked his life for anything, and never will. That person is not courageous. He is not “telling it like it is.” He is a coward. But, Class of 2016 I have good news: When you graduate today, you are leaving a place that has allowed – even encouraged – you to be courageous. You took classes that challenged you intellectually, debated issues that challenged you morally, and probably had some relationships that challenged you emotionally. Many of you are the first in your families to graduate college. And hundreds of you sitting before me are veterans who have already put their lives on the line for our country. Be proud of getting here today not because it was easy, but because it was hard. And plan to succeed tomorrow, not because life is always easy, but because you can find the courage to meet its challenges. And if you live your life with courage, you will look back on it with pride. Congratulations Class of 2016! ###
05.19.2016	Moulton Urges Secretary Kerry to Take Action on Canadian Offshore Oil and Gas Development May 19th, 2016 Canadian offshore drilling poses threat to New England’s coastal communities Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) led a letter to Secretary Kerry requesting he acquire proper environmental and disaster response plans from the Canadian government for offshore oil and gas leases tangential to George’s Bank. Twenty-eight other members of Congress signed Moulton’s letter to express concern over Canada’s decision to allow offshore drilling so close to Georges Bank, a highly productive area that straddles the maritime boundary between Canada and the United States. “There is an abundance of science showing the environmental and economic damage caused by offshore seismic testing and oil and gas development,” said Moulton. “New England’s coastal communities, fishermen, and critically endangered species are under threat from this development off the coast of Nova Scotia. I urge Secretary Kerry to engage our Canadian partners to suspend this risky and unnecessary action.” Recently, President Obama and Prime Minister Trudeau announced the U.S.-Canadian resolve to play international leadership roles in transitioning to the low carbon global economy, through science-based steps. Just days after the U.S.-Canada joint statement, President Obama removed the Atlantic Ocean from offshore oil and gas drilling for the foreseeable future. However, Moulton’s letter highlights that these protections will be insufficient should drilling proceed in this region. “Offshore drilling is a dirty and dangerous business that threatens the health of our oceans, marine wildlife, our coastal communities, and our climate,” said Athan Manuel, Director of the Lands Protection Program. “Rather than doubling and tripling down on outdated and dangerous fossil fuel extraction, we should invest in and develop offshore wind. It’s time we protect our climate, our shores, and our coastal communities rather than selling them out.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or find the Congressman on Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram. ###
05.19.2016	House Passes National Defense Bill with Moulton’s Amendments to Strengthen Counter-ISIL Strategy and Improve Military Mental Health Resources May 19th, 2016 Moulton: “These provisions will save lives and strengthen our national security” Washington, D.C. – Late last night, the House passed the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for fiscal year 2017, to provide critical military personnel funding and resources for our troops. The bill includes several amendments introduced by Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) which will strengthen our counter-ISIL political strategy; ensure the military provides more effective mental health resources to veterans and active duty personnel; require the President to notify Congress with an action plan when Iran conducts a ballistic missile launch; and remove the narrowing of U.S. resettlement eligibility requirements to include Afghans who risked their lives working for the U.S. in Afghanistan. “When I served in Iraq, I often felt that Congress was unprepared and unable to provide us with the support we needed,” said Moulton. “It is my responsibility to ensure that we provide support for our troops serving on the front lines and our veterans here at home. Several of my amendments will provide that critical support by improving our military mental health resources and implementing a comprehensive political strategy in our fight against ISIL. I’m proud that the bill also includes my provision to stand with hundreds of Afghans who risked their lives working for the U.S. These provisions will save lives and strengthen our national security. That’s why I voted for this bipartisan bill.” The below amendments led by Moulton were included in the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017: Anti-ISIL Campaign Strategy: Moulton’s amendment requires the Departments of State and Defense to implement a comprehensive counter-ISIL strategy that includes clear military and political objectives for Iraq and Syria with rigorous reporting requirements. Military Suicide Prevention: Moulton’s amendment will provide better proactive and reactive mental health care for our nation’s active military personnel. It builds upon existing provisions and requires the Department of Defense and the Department of Veterans Affairs to identify patterns and trends in incidences of suicide among the service branches, and develop a methodology in order to provide more effective mental health care among active personnel. This information must then be shared between the Department of Defense and Department of Veterans Affairs to ensure a coordinated strategy to address military suicide. Afghan Special Immigrant Visa (SIV) Eligibility: Moulton’s amendment will remove the narrowing of eligibility requirements that would have prevented hundreds of Afghans who risked their lives working for the U.S. forces in Afghanistan, and now face daily death threats, from even being considered for resettlement in the United States. These brave Afghans face well-documented death threats due to their work with our government – this amendment offers them a chance to stay alive, rather than abandon them to the same enemies they united with the U.S. to destroy. This amendment was endorsed by The New York Times Editorial Board. Iran Ballistic Missile Launch Reporting Requirement: Moulton’s amendment requires the President to conduct an intelligence assessment and officially notify Congress within two weeks whenever Iran conducts a ballistic missile launch or test and inform the Congress as to actions the President will take in response, including efforts to pursue additional sanctions. Here is a link to Moulton’s floor speech. Moulton also worked to secure provisions that will advance Massachusetts’ role as a leader in our national defense efforts. As part of the NDAA, MIT Lincoln Labs, located at Hanscom Air Force Base, has been authorized an additional $40 million this year to modernize and upgrade their research facilities, as well as $265 million over the next five years. The bill also supports the JSTARS program managed at Hanscom Air Force base, an important communication and command platform for our combat forces. In its current form, the bill includes a provision advanced by House Republicans that would weaken anti-discrimination protections for LGBT individuals. Moulton advocated against this amendment and voted against it multiple times during committee. Moulton will introduce a motion to strike this discriminatory provision from the final bill before it reaches the President’s desk. “Republican attempts to inject an anti-LGBT provision into this bill is shameful,” said Moulton. “I will continue to fight to remove this language from the final bill before it reaches the President’s desk. Many LGBT men and women now serve proudly and openly in our armed services, risking their lives for our safety here at home. Like all of our troops, they deserve support without discrimination, and I am confident this provision will be removed in conference.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or find the Congressman on Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram. ###
05.11.2016	Congressmen Moulton, King Introduce Bipartisan Legislation Ensuring Faster and More Comprehensive Care for People Living with ALS May 11th, 2016 Bill aims to eliminate five-month waiting period for Social Security Disability Insurance for people with ALS Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressmen Seth Moulton (D-MA) and Peter King (R-NY) will introduce The ALS Disability Insurance Access Act, a bipartisan bill to ensure that ALS patients are provided vital support and benefits in a more timely manner. The legislation would waive the Social Security Disability Insurance (SSDI) five-month waiting period for people living with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), commonly referred to as Lou Gehrig’s Disease. “The cruel and unforgiving nature of ALS makes it imperative that we provide the best possible care for people living with the disease,” said Congressman Moulton. “I join millions of people in Massachusetts and around the world who have been inspired by my friend, Pete Frates. In the face of tremendous adversity, Pete and his family have focused their efforts on raising awareness and advocating for research towards finding a cure. You only need to spend a few minutes with Pete to appreciate his resilience, and we owe it to Pete, his family, and all Americans impacted by ALS to provide top quality care. I’m proud to introduce this bipartisan bill to provide critical Social Security Disability Insurance (SSDI) benefits that people living with ALS and their families need and deserve.” “Given the prognosis for those diagnosed with ALS, it defies common sense and decency to require these same individuals to wait for benefits they have paid for and most importantly, deserve,” said Congressman King. “An ALS diagnosis is a traumatic, emotional reality that every patient and their family must face,” said Nancy Frates, mother of ALS patient Pete Frates and member of the National Board of Trustees of the ALS Association. “Soon after diagnosis, they learn of the foreboding financial burden that looms. In a disease where time is a most precious commodity, a 5-month waiting period for benefits is cruel and unacceptable. Our family is honored to be represented by Congressman Seth Moulton who we consider a champion for ALS families. Today’s bill is a huge step is helping ease some of the unimaginable pain ALS envelopes it’s families in. We are so grateful for his leadership.” ALS is neurodegenerative disease that affects nerve cells in the brain and the spinal cord, leading to total paralysis and death within two to five years of diagnosis. For unknown reasons, veterans are twice as likely to develop ALS as the general population. There is currently no known cause or cure. In 2000, Congress waived the 24-month Medicare waiting period for people with ALS, ensuring that ALS patients could receive their Medicare benefit more quickly. However, under current law, people with ALS cannot receive their Medicare benefit until they are eligible to receive SSDI, which is subject to a five month wait period. Moulton’s legislation builds on the previous actions taken by Congress and the Social Security Administration by waiving the five-month waiting period for critical SSDI benefits. A Senate version of the bill was introduced by Senator Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI). “People with ALS, who have lost the ability to walk, talk and even breathe on their own and who currently do not have an effective treatment option, should not be forced to wait to receive benefits they deserve and have paid for,” said Barb Newhouse, President and CEO of The ALS Association. “We applaud Representatives Moulton and King and Senator Whitehouse for their leadership in fighting for people with ALS and working to ensure they have access to the vital health and disability benefits that are so essential to everyone living with ALS and their families.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton, visit his website, or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram. ###
05.05.2016	Moulton, McSally Join Forces on Bipartisan National Service Legislation to Preserve 21st Century Conservation Service Corps Program May 5th, 2016 Bill aims to protect conservation efforts and expand national service opportunities for Americans Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) and Congresswoman Martha McSally (R-AZ) introduced a bipartisan bill, the 21st Century Conservation Service Corps (21CSC) Act, to help facilitate restoration projects on public lands and expand service opportunities for Americans. Moulton and McSally’s bill enables federal agencies, like the National Park Service (NPS), to enter into partnerships with national service corps organizations to complete projects faster and at no additional cost to taxpayers. “Enjoying the outdoors and our great national parks is a quintessentially American experience, but it’s one that more and more Americans are losing out on because of the mounting backlog of National Parks Service projects,” said Moulton. “We need innovative solutions and the 21CSC is just that — it codifies public-private partnerships between conservation groups and our park services, while affording young people and veterans meaningful work experience. This bipartisan bill effectively joins service with stewardship, and in doing so, it will make our country a better place. I was proud to work with Congresswoman McSally on this effort to protect 21CSC and promote conservation and national service opportunities at the same time.” “In Arizona, natural beauty is all around us,” said McSally. “The problem is that a backlog of needed restoration projects on our public lands is restricting access for Arizonans and tourists alike to our parks and public areas. Additional resources provided to reduce this backlog have failed to make a dent in it, which is why we need better solutions. My bill leverages existing resources in a smarter way to get these projects moving and ensure the public can once again fully enjoy our national parks.” Under an executive order, federal agencies like the National Park Service are encouraged to partner with national service corps organizations to fill available positions on national service restoration projects. Moulton and McSally’s bill codifies this program under law and expands it to allow additional federal agencies to use corps volunteers to complete projects. Additionally, the bill streamlines the process in which private donations can be used for park reconstruction activities. Today, restoration projects on public lands around the country are significantly backlogged and in need of serious repair. This bill aims to engage 100,000 young Americans in conservation service per year by 2018. Moulton and McSally’s legislation has garnered substantial bipartisan support in Congress. To learn more about Congressman Moulton, visit www.moulton.house.gov or find the Congressman on Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram. ###
05.05.2016	Congressman Moulton Upholds Commitment to Transparency, Announces Vote Explanation Tool May 5th, 2016 Medium platform enables constituents to engage with Moulton about his votes in Congress Salem, MA – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) announced his use of an online platform to provide comprehensive vote explanations after votes on significant pieces of legislation before Congress. Medium is an online platform where users can read and respond to posts, and in doing so, provide direct feedback to Moulton. “I ran for Congress with a promise to lead with transparency,” said Moulton. “It’s not enough just to take a vote. Constituents deserve to understand why I vote the way that I do. Sometimes it’s simple, and sometimes it’s quite complex, but whatever the vote, I will always explain it. Unfortunately, too often politics and partisan allegiance influence how a Member of Congress votes. I have vowed to be a different kind of leader.” Moulton writes an explanation after votes and posts these explanations on his Medium account. Medium is an online forum that enables users to respond to posts and directly engage with Moulton about his votes in Congress. “I am committed to being an effective advocate for the Sixth District here in Congress, and I hope that constituents use Medium as an opportunity to understand the decisions I make and provide feedback,” Moulton said. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton, visit his website, https://moulton.house.gov, or connect with him on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Medium. ###
05.02.2016	Moulton, Keating, Lynch Lead Delegation to Protect Massachusetts Lobster Industry May 2nd, 2016 Massachusetts delegation sends letter in response to petition by Sweden to ban U.S. exports of American lobster to the European Union Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressmen Seth Moulton (D-MA), Stephen Lynch (D-MA), and Bill Keating (D-MA) led an effort to protect the Massachusetts lobster industry in response to the Swedish government’s petition to classify the American lobster as an invasive species. The petition ultimately seeks to ban the import of live American lobsters from the United States to the European Union (EU). Moulton, Keating, and Lynch were joined by the entire state delegation in sending a letter to Secretary of State John Kerry, Ambassador Michael Froman, and National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administrator, Kathryn Sullivan. The letter notes that the EU’s alien species regulations must offer robust scientific evidence in support of any species ban, and argues that this is not the case for the American lobster. The letter can be viewed here. “The Sixth District is home to the largest and most active lobster fleet in Massachusetts, and the lobster industry is a critical part of our history and local economy,” said Congressman Seth Moulton. “This effort to ban U.S. exports of American lobster is not based in science. In fact, studies conducted by leading marine scientists refute Sweden’s assertions that American lobster meet the criteria to be banned by the European Union. This ban would not only have a detrimental impact on the livelihoods of hardworking men and women in the lobster industry, but it would also hurt the entire Massachusetts economy. I’m grateful that our entire delegation stands united to ensure our lobster industry continues to thrive, and I am committed to working with my colleagues in Congress and the Administration to advance a collaborative and transparent dialogue on this issue.” “The lobster industry is as important to our local economy as it is to our history,” said Congressman Bill Keating, who represents Massachusetts’s South Shore, South Coast, and Cape and Islands. “I will continue working with my Massachusetts colleagues to oppose efforts to list the North American lobster as an invasive species, including by working directly with our European counterparts in my role as Ranking Member of the Trade Subcommittee on the Foreign Affairs Committee.” “I respect Sweden’s commitment to protecting the environment from invasive species, but their proposal to halt imports of North American lobsters is not based on sound scientific reasoning,” said Congressman Stephen F. Lynch. “The evidence they have presented is inconsistent with E.U. standards and I hope the State Department, the United States Trade Representative, and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration will continue to work together to advocate for the continued trade of live American lobsters with the E.U. A ban could have serious effects on our hardworking Massachusetts lobstermen and their families.” “From the decks of Massachusetts lobster boats to the plates of European diners, we need to ensure American lobster continues to benefit families and businesses on both side of the Atlantic,” said Senator Edward J. Markey. “The current effort by Swedish authorities to reclassify American lobsters an invasive species and ban their importation into the European Union would undermine a centuries-old relationship and have enormously negative impacts on the Massachusetts lobster industry. Any decision by the EU Commission on the American lobster should be informed by scientific principles and current standards. American lobster is one of our most delectable exports, and we should ensure that Europeans can continue to enjoy it for years to come.” “Lobsters are a big part of the Massachusetts economy, and I’m very concerned about any attempt to block imports of American lobsters. A ban on live lobster imports is not in line with the EU’s standards or with the research conducted by New England’s leading marine scientists on how best to protect the environment,” Senator Elizabeth Warren said. “I’ll keep working with the congressional delegation to support our local lobstermen and to keep the markets open for Massachusetts’ lobsters.” “The European Union markets are extremely important to our commercial Lobstermen here in the Commonwealth,” said Beth Casoni, Executive Director of the Massachusetts Lobstermen’s Association. “We are appreciative and encouraged by the efforts being put forth by Congressmen Moulton, Keating, Lynch, and the entire Massachusetts Delegation to bring a resolve to this matter.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or find the Congressman on Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram. ###
04.30.2016	Moulton Advances Strengthened Counter-ISIL Political Strategy and Improved Military Mental Health Resources in National Defense Bill April 30th, 2016 Moulton secured funding to advance Massachusetts’ capacity to lead on national defense Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA), a member of the House Armed Services Committee, praised the committee’s National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for fiscal year 2017, which includes amendments introduced by Moulton to strengthen our counter-ISIL strategy and ensure the military provides more effective mental health resources to veterans and active duty personnel at high risk of suicide. Moulton also worked to secure critical funding that will advance Massachusetts’ role as a leader in our national defense efforts. “The National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) is instrumental in keeping our troops safe abroad and our families protected here at home,” said Moulton. “I’ve said many times that too little attention has been given to a long-term political strategy in our fight against ISIL. Additionally, we should all be able to agree that our military personnel and veterans deserve the best health care in the world. The amendments I introduced will ensure that we use this opportunity to strengthen our counter-ISIL efforts and provide more effective mental health resources for our military personnel.” Below is a description of the passed amendments Moulton introduced to the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017: Military suicide prevention: Moulton’s amendment aims to provide better proactive and reactive mental health care for our nation’s active military personnel. It builds upon existing provisions and requires the Department of Defense to identify patterns and trends in incidences of suicide among the service branches, and develop a methodology in order to provide more effective mental health care among active personnel. Anti-ISIL Campaign Strategy: Moulton’s amendment requires the Departments of State and Defense to implement a comprehensive counter-ISIL strategy that includes clear military and political objectives for Iraq and Syria with a rigorous reporting requirement. During the markup, Moulton noted that since 2012, suicide has been the leading cause of death in our military, and over the past three years, the suicide rate in our military has been nearly 50 percent greater than the civilian population. “The bottom line is the Department of Defense needs to ensure the services work proactively to collect and share data, and act in response to this crisis,” said Moulton. As a member of the House Armed Services Committee, Moulton has frequently called on top military leaders to implement a clear political strategy in our efforts to combat ISIL. Moulton and other Armed Services Committee members were frustrated by a lack of specificity and direction in the Section 1222 report required by last year’s NDAA – a report which lacked a forward looking strategy detailing both the political and military aspects of the anti-ISIL campaign. Moulton also worked to secure provisions that will advance Massachusetts’ role as a leader in our national defense efforts. As part of the NDAA, MIT Lincoln Labs, located at Hanscom Air Force Base, has been authorized an additional $40 million this year to modernize and upgrade their research facilities, as well as $265 million over the next five years. The bill also supports the JSTARS program managed at Hanscom Air Force base, an important communication and command platform for our combat forces. The NDAA was reported out of committee and will advance to the full House for consideration. Moulton’s remarks on military suicide prevention can be viewed here, and his remarks on implementing an anti-ISIL strategy, here. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or find the Congressman on Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram. ###
04.29.2016	Moulton Letter Spurs Reforms to NOAA At Sea Monitoring Program April 29th, 2016 NOAA reforms to At Sea Monitoring program provide much needed relief to New England fishermen Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) commended the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) for incorporating significant reforms to the At Sea Monitoring Program in advance of the start of the fishing season this Sunday. Moulton led a New England delegation letter to NOAA in January to put pressure on NOAA to incorporate these reforms to the ASM program. “With the start of the 2016 fishing season beginning on Sunday, these reforms are essential to the effective and efficient implementation of the At Sea Monitoring program and the viability of the New England fishing industry,” said Moulton. “NOAA’s reforms to the At Sea Monitoring program make it more cost-effective while still reliably monitoring the groundfish catch. I am grateful to NOAA for listening to the concerns of the New England Fishery Management Council, and I am committed to continuing to work with all involved to ensure that fishing communities throughout New England are equipped to thrive.” Today, NOAA announced its Framework 55 New England Groundfish Rulemakings, which sets catch limits for the 2016-2018 fishing years, adjust the groundfish At-Sea Monitoring (ASM) program, implement sector administrative measures for 2016; and establish recreational measures for cod and haddock. Notably, Framework 55 also reduces ASM Council Requirements in certain New England Groundfish Sectors/Fisheries. “NSC deeply appreciates that many Members of Congress in the northeast region recognized the crucial need to evolve the at-sea monitoring program and, under Congressman Moulton’s leadership, co-signed a letter of support for these reforms to NOAA fisheries that have now been approved by the Secretary of Commerce,” said Jackie Odell, Executive Director of the Northeast Seafood Coalition. “Although NSC opposes industry funded at-sea monitoring requirements, the issue of who is funding the program is independent of the collective responsibility to improve the program and seek efficiencies. Changes that have been approved to the program under Framework 55 take advantage of the incremental benefits of additional years of data and knowledge gained since the inception of the program, while meeting the same statistical standards required. Approval of these modifications reflects sound and responsible fisheries management.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or find the Congressman on Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram, or Medium. ###
04.28.2016	Moulton, McSally Join Forces on Bipartisan National Service Legislation to Preserve 21st Century Conservation Service Corps Program April 28th, 2016 Bill aims to protect conservation efforts and expand national service opportunities for Americans Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) and Congresswoman Martha McSally (R-AZ) introduced a bipartisan bill, the 21st Century Conservation Service Corps (21CSC) Act, to help facilitate restoration projects on public lands and expand service opportunities for Americans. Moulton and McSally’s bill enables federal agencies, like the National Park Service (NPS), to enter into partnerships with national service corps organizations to complete projects faster and at no additional cost to taxpayers. “Enjoying the outdoors and our great national parks is a quintessentially American experience, but it’s one that more and more Americans are losing out on because of the mounting backlog of National Parks Service projects,” said Moulton. “We need innovative solutions and the 21CSC is just that — it codifies public-private partnerships between conservation groups and our park services, while affording young people and veterans meaningful work experience. This bipartisan bill effectively joins service with stewardship, and in doing so, it will make our country a better place. I was proud to work with Congresswoman McSally on this effort to protect 21CSC and promote conservation and national service opportunities at the same time.” “In Arizona, natural beauty is all around us,” said McSally. “The problem is that a backlog of needed restoration projects on our public lands is restricting access for Arizonans and tourists alike to our parks and public areas. Additional resources provided to reduce this backlog have failed to make a dent in it, which is why we need better solutions. My bill leverages existing resources in a smarter way to get these projects moving and ensure the public can once again fully enjoy our national parks.” Under an executive order, federal agencies like the National Park Service are encouraged to partner with national service corps organizations to fill available positions on national service restoration projects. Moulton and McSally’s bill codifies this program under law and expands it to allow additional federal agencies to use corps volunteers to complete projects. Additionally, the bill streamlines the process in which private donations can be used for park reconstruction activities. Today, restoration projects on public lands around the country are significantly backlogged and in need of serious repair. This bill aims to engage 100,000 young Americans in conservation service per year by 2018. Moulton and McSally’s legislation has garnered substantial bipartisan support in Congress. To learn more about Congressman Moulton, visit www.moulton.house.gov or find the Congressman on Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram, or Medium. ###
04.26.2016	Reps Moulton, Duckworth Join Forces on Legislation to Expand National Service Opportunities for Americans April 26th, 2016 Service bill aims to empower young Americans to serve by expanding civilian service programs and offering college financial assistance Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) and Congresswoman Tammy Duckworth (D-IL) joined forces in proposing bold legislation to encourage young people to serve their country, expand our nation’s civilian service programs, and help make college more affordable. The 21st Century American Service Act would transform national service programs like City Year and Teach For America from institutions that can only accept a fraction of applicants into universal, fully-voluntary, and uniquely American organizations. “Serving in the Marines changed my life,” said Moulton. “Every American should have the opportunity to give back to our country in some form of public service. Yet, each year, the number of Americans who apply to participate in national service programs far exceeds the number of available positions. The 21st Century American Service Act would build on on this strong sense of engagement and ensure that all Americans from ages 18 to 30 have the opportunity to serve. I’m proud to stand with my colleague and fellow veteran, Representative Tammy Duckworth, to promote inclusive service.” “My family and I served this country in uniform, but people of all stripes serve their country out of uniform each and every day too,” said Duckworth. “Just as picking up a rifle to defend our country is ‘American Service,’ so is picking up a soup spoon to feed the less fortunate, a stick of chalk to teach low-income children or a hammer to rebuild homes for those devastated by natural disasters. Whether defending our nation or rebuilding its communities, we should do everything we can to honor and support all those who are willing to serve, but instead we’re turning them away in droves. My 21st Century American Service Act will finally let us put this groundswell of untapped energy to work revitalizing our country.” The multitude of civilian service programs provide opportunities to help rebuild run-down school buildings, improve neighborhoods, assist low-income communities, and educate our children, among many other unfilled—but valuable—roles like helping address the Flint Water Crisis. Many Americans aren’t able to take advantage of these programs because their financial situation does not allow them to volunteer. Additionally, because these service programs are not adequately resourced or funded, the individuals who do seek to volunteer their time are often turned away—at rates comparable to some Ivy League universities. Moulton and Duckworth’s 21st Century American Service Act addresses each of these problems by expanding service positions available through civilian national service organizations and ensuring all young Americans are informed of the opportunities available to them. Additionally, it would strengthen the educational awards that young Americans earn through service, make those educational awards tax-free, and create an innovative national service college compact pilot program that would double the maximum educational award for participants who complete two years of service and a year of work in public service or with a non-profit entity. This award would help young Americans pay college tuition or pay down student loan debt. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or find the Congressman on Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram, or Medium. ###
04.22.2016	Congressmen Moulton, Dold Join Bipartisan Task Force on Climate Change April 22nd, 2016 Bipartisan Climate Solutions Caucus to explore 21st century solutions to climate change Salem, MA – Today as we celebrate Earth Day, Congressmen Seth Moulton (D-MA) and Robert Dold (R-IL) announced that they joined the bipartisan Climate Solutions Caucus. The Climate Solutions Caucus is the first bipartisan task force to address climate change in the U.S. House of Representatives. “I came to Congress hoping to find bipartisan solutions to address some of the big challenges we face as a country. One of the most pressing issues that we have to tackle as a generation—and a planet—is climate change,” said Moulton. “We need to seek out areas for common ground to protect our environment for generations to come, and the bipartisan Climate Solutions Caucus is doing just that. As a member who represents coastal communities that are particularly sensitive to warming temperatures, I see both the environmental and economic effects of climate change on a regular basis. I am excited to join a group that is committed to working on this issue in a bipartisan way – it’s the only way we are going to make real progress.” “As an Eagle Scout and Scoutmaster for many years, I know firsthand why we must all work to strengthen conservation programs and other policies that promote public health, protect our environment and keep our air clean,” said Dold. “Climate change is occurring and human contributions to this change are important to acknowledge and understand. Protecting the environment is not a partisan issue, which is why we must work together to find a sensible path forward that improves our planet for future generations.” Congressmen Ted Deutch (D-FL) and Carlos Curbelo (R-FL) formed the caucus in February. The caucus holds events aimed at educating members on the threats that climate change poses to our economy, security, environment, and infrastructure. It seeks to find bipartisan and economically-viable solutions to these challenges. “I am pleased that on Earth Day, we can proudly announce the addition of two Members of the House of Representatives to the Bipartisan Climate Solutions Caucus,” said Curbelo. “We warmly welcome Rep. Dold and Rep. Moulton, and look forward to hearing their thoughts and feedback. As our newly formed caucus continues to grow, I am confident that both parties will be able to collaborate on ideas through constructive dialogue and an ardent passion for helping our environment.” “I look forward to bringing two more voices to the important bipartisan discussions we are having in the Climate Solutions Caucus, particularly as we mark Earth Day today” said Deutch. “Climate change is real, and it’s time to show the American people that Congress’s willingness to develop climate solutions is just as real.” To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or find the Congressman on Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram. ###
04.19.2016	Congressman Moulton Announces $4.5 Million Federal Grant to Purchase Lynn Commuter Ferry Boat April 19th, 2016 Moulton, Senator McGee, state and local leaders partner to bring the new 149-passenger vessel to Lynn Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA), with Massachusetts State Senator Thomas M. McGee (D-Lynn), state and local leaders, announced that the Federal Transit Administration has awarded a $4.5 million dollar grant to the City of Lynn. This grant, and the 20-percent match secured by state and local leaders, will provide funding to purchase a new 149-passenger vessel to support long-term ferry service from the Blossom Street Ferry Terminal in Lynn to Boston. “Full-time ferry service in Lynn will help unleash the tremendous potential for the city’s underdeveloped waterfront,” said Moulton. “I am grateful to the local and state partners, especially Senator McGee and the Lynn EDIC, for their leadership on this effort. This is the type of successful collaboration I imagined when I worked to convene the Lynn Economic Advancement and Development Team.” Moulton met with federal Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx in October to highlight the importance of the ferry grant to Lynn and has been working with federal officials in the agency to secure these funds for the City. In an October letter of support to Massachusetts Department of Transportation Administrator Astrid Glynn, Moulton noted that ferry transportation is both a critical driver for economic development in the area, as well as an important transportation investment to support the growth resulting from that development. “I’m happy to announce that we have secured funding for the City of Lynn to purchase a ferry boat,” said McGee. “The Lynn to Boston Ferry Service is a vision that I have been leading the charge on for many years. Partnering with the past Administration, City officials, and the Lynn State Delegation members, we have been able to build support and make significant infrastructure investments that led to an extremely successful Pilot Program the last two years. All along, we knew we needed to develop a long-term plan for year round ferry service, and having our own boat is a crucial component of that. The Ferry is a key piece to the future growth and development that is on the verge of becoming a reality in Lynn.” The Lynn Commuter Ferry Project was incorporated as part of the City’s Waterfront Master Plan developed in 2007 to maximize planning and development. Work began in 2008 with a $750,000 grant from the Massachusetts Seaport Advisory Council. This initial funding was used at the designated Blossom Street Extension site for the reconstruction of the boat ramp, improvements to the drainage, pavement of the adjacent lot and demolition of an existing building, both of which had been vacant for over 30 years. The City’s only owned port facility received another grant in 2011 for $1.6 million, which was used to improve the deteriorating shoreline and fund construction necessary to extend the existing bulkhead to enhance the waterfront access. These improvements were key to priming the site for future passenger ferry operations. The City of Lynn, through their Economic Development and Industrial Corporation (EDIC/Lynn) also invested $750,000, which clearly demonstrates a local commitment to the project and to providing long-term service that will benefit the entire region. The two-year Pilot Program which began in May 2014, was funded by a grant from the Massachusetts Seaport Advisory Council. Ridership numbers far exceeded projections-13,322 passengers in 2014 and 14,577 passengers in 2015. This project will provide intermodal connections in Boston to jobs, educational opportunities, and health and human services. The Massachusetts Department of Transportation is committed to dedicating technical assistance resources to the City for developing a long-term sustainability plan for ferry operations. “We are pleased to have this federal support that will help the city of Lynn achieve its vision for its waterfront and we look forward to supporting the city with technical assistance and with this grant,” said Massachusetts Department of Transportation Secretary and CEO Stephanie Pollack. “I’d like to thank our state and federal partners that worked hard with the City on this application,” said Mayor Judith Flanagan Kennedy. “This is excellent news for commuters from Lynn and the North Shore. This grant will allow us to purchase our own ferry and help us move toward our goal of providing year-round ferry service,” said James Cowdell, Lynn Economic Development and Industrial Corporation (EDIC) Director. “Thanks to our state and federal elected officials, this grant ensures Lynn’s future as a ferry commuting community,” said City Council President Dan Cahill. ###
04.14.2016	Congressmen Moulton, Walz Defend Post-9/11 GI Bill Benefits April 14th, 2016 Moulton: “We owe it to our service members and their families to provide the benefits and respect that they have earned.” Washington, DC – Today, Congressmen Seth Moulton (D-MA) and Tim Walz (D-MN) were joined by the Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America (IAVA) and other House members to defend the Post-9/11 GI Bill benefits that are at risk of being reduced following the House passage of H.R. 3016 – Veterans Employment, Education and Healthcare Improvement Act. “We have a responsibility to uphold the promises we made to the men and women who signed up to put their lives on the line for our country,” said Congressman Moulton (D-MA). “The attempts to re-purpose the Post-9/11 GI Bill for other government programs directly contradicts those promises. This is just wrong, and I’m proud to stand with the Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America in pledging to preserve the benefits promised to all new veterans and their families. We owe it to our service members and their families to provide the benefits and respect that they have earned.” “Every day we have active members of the military protecting our country and sacrificing their lives for us and their families, and we owe it to them to keep our promise,” said Walz. “We cannot blindside our service members and reduce a critical part of the post-9/11 GI Bill. I agree with my Republican colleagues that this bill offers some wonderful programs, many I support and some I introduced, but we need to find a different way to pay for those programs. “The fact that we even have to fight to protect this critical earned benefit that has empowered so many Iraq and Afghanistan veterans and their families is beyond disappointing,” said IAVA Founder and CEO Paul Rieckhoff. “The Post-9/11 GI Bill has created unparalleled educational and career opportunities for the nearly one million veterans who took advantage of it after service to our country. Veterans will not sit idly by while some Members of Congress use the benefits we’ve earned as a piggybank for other programs. IAVA’s 425,000 members are proud to join Reps. Walz and Moulton in urging their colleagues in Congress to defend the Post-9/11 GI Bill.” Moulton and Walz were joined by Rep. Tulsi Gabbard (D-HI), Rep. Brad Ashford (D-NE), Rep. Tammy Duckworth (D-IL), Rep. Gwen Graham (D-FL), Rep. Beto O’Rourke (D-TX), Rep. Kathleen Rice (D-NY), Rep. Julia Brownley (D-CA), IAVA Founder and CEO Paul Rieckhoff, the Air Force Sergeants Association, the Association of the United States Navy, the Commissioned Officers Association, Vietnam Veterans of America, and IAVA Members and supporters. Under the legislation, housing stipends for military dependent children who pursue a college education would be cut by 50 percent, leaving them to seek financial assistance elsewhere after their parents who served and defended our country were promised this benefit when they entered the military. Since H.R. 3016 was considered on the House Floor under Suspension of the Rules, a parliamentary procedure that is regularly used to quickly pass non-controversial bills, no member could offer an amendment or add a grandfather clause to the bill. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov, or find the Congressman on Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram, or Medium. ###
04.13.2016	Congressman Seth Moulton Presents Eva Murillo Unsung Hero Award to Tewksbury Native, Maureen Mahoney April 13th, 2016 Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus holds annual award ceremony WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) presented the Eva Murillo Unsung Hero award to Tewksbury native, Maureen Mahoney. Moulton serves on the bipartisan Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus (VRC). He nominated Maureen and Jane Mahoney to receive the award to recognize their advocacy work on behalf of at-risk youth and domestic violence survivors. “The Eva Murillo Unsung Hero Award recognizes a crime victim or survivor who has triumphed over adversity and used his or her experience to promote awareness of crime victims’ rights,” said Moulton. “Maureen and Jane Mahoney have exemplified these attributes throughout their lives. On the 40th anniversary of their parents’ and brother’s death, Maureen and Jane organized a community event to honor their family by raising awareness and funds for local organizations that focus on domestic violence. I am honored to have nominated such a deserving pair of individuals from the Sixth District, and proud to present this award to Maureen in recognition of her strength and advocacy work.” At the award ceremony, Mahoney spoke about her family’s legacy. “I am representing an entire community who have kept my parents and my brother’s legacy alive for over 40 years. Within that community there is a small, but mighty committee who worked very hard last year to ensure that the Dr. Hugh, Ruth, and John Mahoney tribute was a great success. As Congressman Moulton said, we were able to fund programs within three non-profits and the Tewksbury Police Department to strive to end violence, especially among youth,” said Mahoney. Moulton was joined by fellow members of the bipartisan VRC, including: Congressmen Ted Poe (R-TX), Jim Costa (D-CA), Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), and Dave Reichert (R-WA). The VRC was founded 10 years ago to advocate for crime victims. The VRC has taken the lead in protecting programs that provide critical support for victim services throughout the nation, including the Victims of Crime Act (VOCA), Violence Against Women Act (VAWA), and the Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act (TVPRA). Each year, it hosts various briefings on victims’ rights issues, including domestic violence, child abuse, elder abuse, human trafficking as well as various other topics. It also recognizes National Crime Victims’ Rights Week with an annual awards ceremony. Eva Murillo Unsung Hero Award The Unsung Hero Award is in memorial of Eva Murillo, a prominent crime victim advocate from California. The honoree is a crime victim or survivor who has utilized their experiences to promote public education and awareness, public policy development, and greater awareness about crime victims’ rights and needs. Eva Murillo Unsung Hero Award Maureen Mahoney Nominated by Congressman Seth Moulton (MA-6) Maureen Mahoney’s parents and brother were murdered in a tragic robbery when she was a young adult. She has used this tragedy to educate the community and raise funds for community-based organizations that combat crime and support survivors and their families. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov, or find the Congressman on Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram. ###
04.12.2016	Congressman Seth Moulton Statement on Equal Pay Day April 12th, 2016 Moulton: “Equal pay is not simply a women’s issue – it’s a family issue and an economic one.” Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) released the following statement in recognition of Equal Pay Day: “Today, women make up about half of the American workforce, and on average they are still being paid less than men,” said Moulton. “We can do better than this. Equal pay is not simply a women’s issue – it’s a family issue and an economic one. Hardworking families increasingly rely on women’s wages to make ends meet, and with less take-home pay women have less for the everyday needs of their families. That’s why I’m a proud cosponsor of the Paycheck Fairness Act. This bill would advance pay equality, promote fair labor standards, and provide women with key resources to challenge pay discrimination. We should all be able to get behind the goals of the Paycheck Fairness Act, as passing this legislation is an opportunity to significantly move the needle on ensuring that women receive equal pay for equal work. I hope that my Republican colleagues come to recognize this and start working with Democrats to close the wage gap.” Among its many provisions, the Paycheck Fairness Act prohibits employer retaliation for sharing salary information with coworkers; requires employers to show that pay disparity is truly job-related, not based on gender; strengthens remedies for women experiencing pay discrimination; and empowers women in the workplace through a grant program to strengthen salary negotiation and other workplace skills. House Republicans have voted nine times to block the Paycheck Fairness Act from being considered on the House Floor. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov, or find the Congressman on Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram, or Medium. ###
04.08.2016	Federal, State, and Local Leaders Discuss Progress on Economic Development in Lynn April 8th, 2016 Leadership Economic Advancement and Development (LEAD) Team of Congressman Moulton, Secretary of Housing and Economic Development Jay Ash, Secretary of Energy and Environmental Affairs Matthew Beaton, Secretary of Transportation Stephanie Pollack, Mayor Flanagan Kennedy, Senator McGee, Representatives Ehrlich, Wong and Crighton committed to growth and job creation in Lynn Lynn, MA – Today the Lynn Economic Advancement and Development (LEAD) team, made up of Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA), Secretary of Housing and Economic Development Jay Ash, Secretary of Energy and Environmental Affairs Matthew Beaton, Secretary of Transportation Stephanie Pollack, Mayor Flanagan Kennedy, Senator McGee, Representatives Ehrlich, Wong and Crighton, and key local stakeholders, held their first quarterly meeting in Lynn to discuss ongoing economic development projects in the city and map out future plans for growth and job creation. “When you consider the factors that drive economic development and community revitalization, Lynn has them all,” said Moulton. “From its location and transportation links to Boston, to its waterfront spaces and hardworking community, Lynn has enormous potential. This type of collaboration is something I talked about since day one of my campaign and it began as a pretty straightforward, yet ambitious idea to bring everyone to the table. I’m proud of the work that we’ve done together to turn this idea into action. After the LEAD meeting today, I am even more hopeful about our collective approach. With aligned federal, state, and local efforts, we can ensure that Lynn has the resources it needs to attract high­-paying jobs, create more affordable housing, and generate opportunities for an even stronger Lynn.” The LEAD team was launched in November 2015 as a cross-governmental working group aimed at promoting community revitalization in Lynn by aligning economic development initiatives at the local, state, and federal levels. Designees meet monthly to review projects and progress, and core team members meet quarterly. “The LEAD team’s early successes have much to do with the years of work by municipal and legislative leaders. Their commitment to the City has allowed the Team to bring multiple sites closer to market, get developers at the table, and coordinate a long-term economic development plan in short order,” said Secretary Ash. “We will continue to help align and use a diverse set of supportive programs that leverage Lynn’s strong economic and community assets to bring development and job creation to the City. There are incredible opportunities here, and I look forward to continued work with the LEAD team to identify and expedite potential development.” “It’s great to have the LEAD Team members back together in Lynn today to discuss the progress our collaborative effort has made thus far in moving the future opportunities on the waterfront forward,” said Senator Thomas M. McGee. “The groundwork has been laid for many years to get us to this point, and I want to thank my partners in the Lynn State Delegation past and present, Representative Brendan Crighton, Representative Lori Ehrlich, and Representative Donald Wong, for their partnership in those efforts.” The group, by putting aside political interest, has been able to expedite progress on economic development priorities in Lynn at a far faster rate than any party would be able to accomplish alone. Current projects include a potential $90 million, 348-unit, mixed-use development at the former Beacon Chevrolet site, also known as the North Harbor site, as well as a potential 1200-unit housing development on a former GE Riverworks site, and a 250-unit luxury apartment building at the South Harbor site on the Lynnway. “We are appreciative for the support of our LEAD Team partners as we advance development projects that we have identified as priorities in the City,” said Mayor Judith Flanagan Kennedy. “In a short period of time we have made great progress. I am looking forward to moving our great City forward,” said Jim Cowdell, Executive Director of the Economic Development & Industrial Corporation of Lynn. Since its launch, the LEAD team has worked to coordinate community planning efforts, and enable expedited permitting and development on underutilized real estate parcels. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov, or find the Congressman on Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram, or Medium. ###
04.07.2016	Congressman Seth Moulton, Local Leaders Announce Federal Grants Awarded to North Shore, Lynn Health Centers to Combat Opioid Addiction April 7th, 2016 Moulton discusses federal grants received by Sixth District and package of legislation he supports in Congress to combat opioid addiction Salem, MA – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) announced federal grants awarded in the Sixth District to combat the prescription opioid addiction crisis facing our communities. Surrounded by local leaders and public health experts, Moulton announced that federal grant money totalling $677,083 has been awarded to the North Shore Community Health Center and the Lynn Community Health Center. The health centers based in Salem and Lynn are among 271 centers across the country to receive grant money from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to combat the opioid epidemic. “Opioid addiction is a crisis that touches almost every community in America,” said Moulton. “We need a proactive and coordinated strategy that brings together law enforcement, the medical community, government, and community leaders. In Washington, I see the opportunity for genuine bipartisan cooperation on this issue, and I am working with my Democrat and Republican colleagues to give medical and law enforcement professionals the tools they need to end this epidemic. Addiction is a debilitating and treatable disease, and it is time our laws reflected that.” These HHS grants aim to improve and expand the delivery of substance abuse services in health centers, with a specific focus on treatment of opioid use disorders. The Lynn Community Health Center received $325,000 and the North Shore Community Health Center, with sites in Gloucester, Salem, and Peabody, received $352,083. Salem Mayor Kim Driscoll, Rep. Paul Tucker (D-Salem), and the directors of the North Shore Community Health Center and Lynn Community Health Center joined Moulton for the announcement. “The opioid epidemic is cutting lives short, tearing families apart, and draining the resources our law enforcement and health care professionals have to treat addiction,” said Moulton. “I am grateful to the Department of Health and Human Services for awarding these resources to support the North Shore and Lynn Community health centers here in the Sixth District. Our health care professionals play a major role in combatting this problem, and we must ensure that they are equipped with adequate resources. These grants are a key example of how the federal government can support local leaders who are saving lives and supporting recovery.” Margaret A. Brennan, Director of the North Shore Community Health Center, joined Moulton for the announcement. “Gloucester is one of the hardest hit communities in the opioid epidemic currently raging in Massachusetts,” said Brennan. “Unfortunately, this has been the case for many years. The community is united and committed to doing whatever it takes to save lives. NSCH is very pleased to get this support from HRSA to expand our primary care based substance abuse treatment work in Gloucester.” Lori Abrams Berry, Chief Executive Officer of the Lynn Community Health Center, also spoke about the growing crisis. “Overdoses have reached a crisis level in our community. Last year, there were 54 opioid-related deaths in Lynn, 6% of those in the entire state of Massachusetts,” said Abrams Berry. “This funding will enable the Lynn Community Health Center to expand the number of people we can serve through our Integrated Primary Care, Behavioral Health and Addictions Treatment Program. Our comprehensive, coordinated, and community-based approach combines the use of Suboxone with individual and group therapy, and social services support—all within the context of primary care. Our aim is to ensure that any person in our community who wants to stop using opiates can access treatment at the time they are ready and motivated for change.” Moulton, a member of the Bipartisan Taskforce to Combat the Heroin Epidemic, discussed legislation he is working on with his colleagues in Congress, including H.R. 953, The Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act, H.R. 4499, The Promoting Responsible Opioid Prescribing Act of 2016, and H.R. 3713, The Sentencing Reform Act of 2015. More information on this legislation and other bills can be found here. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or find the Congressman on Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram. ###
04.06.2016	Congressman Seth Moulton Returns from Iraq, Middle East April 6th, 2016 Moulton joins Congressional Delegation to Oversee U.S. Efforts to Disable ISIS and Meet with Top Leaders Salem, MA – Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) returned from a week-long congressional delegation trip to the Middle East. The delegation travelled to Israel, the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain, Iraq, and Spain to oversee U.S. efforts to destroy ISIS, discuss regional security threats with top military leaders, and meet with U.S. service members overseas. “This congressional delegation trip throughout the Middle East was an important opportunity for me to review our national defense capabilities firsthand as we work to defeat ISIS and other threats,” said Moulton. “We met with U.S. and foreign leaders in each country we visited and in doing so, we worked to strengthen strategic relationships with our regional allies. These partnerships are critical to protecting our service members and promoting stability in the Middle East.” “Most importantly,” Moulton continued. “We met with the soldiers, sailors, airmen, and Marines who carry out our policy everyday on the frontlines. The visit reaffirmed my view that our military is doing an excellent job in the fight against ISIS, but we do not have a long-term political plan to ensure the peace – and ensure that our military’s heroic efforts won’t be in vain.” In Israel, Moulton met with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and visited several military sites to get an update on the country’s missile defense systems and joint missile defense efforts with the U.S. Moulton and the group also met with U.S. Ambassador to Israel Daniel Shapiro and members of the Israeli Defense Forces (IDF). In the United Arab Emirates (U.A.E.), the delegation reviewed U.S. efforts to strengthen cooperation among Arab Gulf states on missile defense. Moulton met with U.S. military leaders as well as a member of the U.A.E. Ministry of Defense, and toured Emirati missile defense sites. In Bahrain, Moulton met with U.S. Navy leadership and service members, including Naval personnel from Massachusetts, to discuss regional threats in the Middle East. During the visit, Moulton met service members aboard the USS Harry S. Truman, an aircraft carrier deployed in the Persian Gulf. In Iraq, the delegation met with U.S. and Iraqi military commanders, U.S. Ambassador to Iraq Stuart Jones, and service members stationed in Baghdad and Anbar. Moulton visited several military sites across Iraq and reviewed U.S. training efforts of Iraqi security forces. On the final stop of the congressional delegation, Moulton and the delegation toured Naval Station Rota in Spain. The delegation went on a U.S. Navy Aegis-class destroyer to observe its missile defense capabilities. Moulton was joined by Senator Joe Donnelly (D-IN), Congressmen Steve Israel (D-NY), Steve Lynch (D-MA), Tim Ryan (D-OH), and C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD). To learn more about Congressman Moulton, visit www.moulton.house.gov, or find the Congressman on Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram. ###
03.29.2016	Moulton Launches Online Portal for Feedback on the Kinder Morgan Pipeline March 29th, 2016 Portal to give voice to those who feel that their concerns are not being heard and addressed by FERC and Kinder Morgan Salem, MA — Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) launched an online portal for constituent feedback on energy costs and, in particular, the proposed Northeast Energy Direct pipeline proposed by Kinder Morgan. The feedback portal seeks to provide a forum for constituents to express their thoughts and concerns about energy costs in New England and the proposed pipeline. “As I hold meetings across the district, I hear from a growing number of constituents with serious concerns about rising energy costs and the proposed Kinder Morgan pipeline,” said Moulton. “This portal will give a voice to those who feel that their concerns are not being heard and addressed by Kinder Morgan and the pipeline promoters.” The feedback portal is available for comment on the website here, and it will be open for individuals to submit their comments until May 20th. While many constituents may have provided testimony to FERC online, or at a public scoping meeting, federal agencies do not respond directly to that feedback. Moulton will use the information collected from the online portal to seek a formal response to constituent concerns from FERC and Kinder Morgan. “The people I’ve talked to feel like the concerns they raised to Kinder Morgan have fallen on deaf ears,” said Moulton. “I will share the feedback from the portal directly with FERC and Kinder Morgan in order to hold them accountable and to provide a meaningful response to our communities’ concerns.” Moulton has engaged with a broad range of stakeholders, ranging from businesses to elected officials to environmental interest groups, about the proposed pipeline. After convening a meeting of the local and state leaders of communities that would be affected by the proposed pipeline on August 26, 2015, Moulton sent a letter to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to ask for an additional scoping meeting to enable constituents to express their concerns. FERC denied the request, citing the scoping meeting held in Dracut, Massachusetts as the forum for public input by communities affected by the proposed Lynnfield lateral pipeline. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit www.moulton.house.gov or find the Congressman on Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram. ###
03.18.2016	Moulton, Kinzinger Letter to Secretary Kerry Draws Broad Bipartisan Support March 18th, 2016 Letter Calls on Kerry to Work Toward UN Security Council Resolution to prevent Iranian support for Hamas Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) and Congressman Adam Kinzinger (R-IL) released a bipartisan Letter to Secretary Kerry calling on Secretary of State John Kerry to work toward a new UN Security Council resolution to ban weapons transfers to Hamas and other Palestinian terrorist organizations. Moulton and Kinzinger’s letter has the support of 39 Democratic and Republican lawmakers. “Iran has continued to act in ways that are counterproductive to the safety and security of the Middle East, including to our key ally, Israel,” said Moulton. “Violence against civilians in Israel and the broader Middle East has reaffirmed the need to continue to actively counter Iran’s destabilizing influence and threatening activities. We are calling on Secretary Kerry to work toward a new UN Security Council resolution to ban weapons transfers to Hamas and other Palestinian terrorist organizations by Iran or any other party. It is critical that the U.S. does all it can to prevent support for Hamas and other terrorist groups.” “With each passing day, Iran continues to pose a dangerous threat to U.S. national security and the safety and stability of our allies in the Middle East,” said Kinzinger. “A UN Security Council resolution specifically banning Iran from the transfer of weapons to Palestinian terrorist groups like Hamas is critical to protecting our allies like Israel and preventing further Iranian assertion throughout the Middle East. I join my colleagues in urging Secretary Kerry’s swift action and response.” UN Security Council Resolution 2231, which bans arms transfers to and from Iran, is set to expire five years after Implementation Day of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA). Though other UN Security Council resolutions ban the transfer of weapons to Hezbollah, Shia militias in Iraq, and other militant groups, there are no UN Security Council resolutions specifically banning the transfer of weapons to Hamas and other Palestinian terrorist groups. To learn more about Congressman Moulton, visit www.moulton.house.gov or find the Congressman on Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram. ###
03.16.2016	Congressman Seth Moulton Selected as 2016 World Economic Forum Young Global Leader March 16th, 2016 Moulton One of 25 Young Global Leaders Selected from North America Washington, DC – Today, the World Economic Forum announced that Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) has been selected as a 2016 Young Global Leader. Moulton is one of 25 Young Global Leaders selected from North America and 121 young leaders selected from around the world. “It’s a great honor to have been selected as a Young Global Leader by the World Economic Forum,” said Moulton. “Being a part of this forum provides each of us with a unique opportunity and, more importantly, a responsibility to address our world’s most pressing social, economic, and cultural challenges. I take this responsibility seriously, and I look forward to partnering with the diverse and experienced Young Global Leader community to advance our common interests and shape our collective future.” The Forum for Young Global Leaders includes leaders in politics, business, civil society, academia, technology, and arts and culture across seven geographic regions. Each year, the Forum reviews thousands of nominated candidates from around the world and selects individuals under 40 who meet their criteria as innovative, enterprising, and socially minded leaders committed to making the world a better place. Current and former Young Global Leaders include Heads of State and Fortune 500 company leaders, as well as Nobel Prize and Academy Award winners. In describing the class of 2016, the Forum states, “Taken together, they represent the very best of this generation and, as public services worldwide face funding shortfalls, they emphasize the need for future leaders to be tech-savvy, civic-minded innovators.” “We want these young leaders to be part of the solution and to provide a community that helps them to break down silos, work across sectors, bridge cultures and have the skills get things done in private, public and civil society organizations,” said John Dutton, Head of the Young Global Leaders at the World Economic Forum. Class of 2016 Young Global Leaders include, Amal Clooney, Dhivya Suryadevara, Shu Wang, Ashton Kutcher, Roland G. Fryer, and Farida Bedwei. For a full list of the Class of 2016 Young Global Leaders: http://wef.ch/ygl16 To learn more about Congressman Moulton, visit www.moulton.house.gov or find the Congressman on Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram. ###
03.15.2016	President Obama Invites Congressman Seth Moulton to Join Him on Historic Trip to Cuba March 15th, 2016 March Visit Marks the First Time in 88 Years Since a Sitting President has Visited Cuba Washington, DC — Next week, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) will join President Barack Obama on a historic trip to Cuba, marking the first time in 88 years that a sitting U.S. President has visited the country. “I am honored to join President Obama on this historic visit to Cuba,” said Moulton. “The trip is a tangible example of diplomacy at work and will highlight the vast potential for trade, travel, and exchange of ideas between our countries. This is an important step in a long process to normalize relations with Cuba. By continuing to engage Cuba and encouraging the Cuban government to move towards a brighter future for its citizens, we will work to bring an end to undemocratic practices such as unjust imprisonment, restrictions on free speech, and failed economic controls. I look forward to seeing real change for the Cuban people.” In December 2014, President Obama announced the restoration of full diplomatic ties between the United States and Cuba. Normalizing relations with Cuba is widely embraced by the U.S. business community, religious groups, academia, the scientific community, the media, and Americans of all backgrounds. In fact, a majority of all Americans (56%) and Latinos (62%) in the U.S. favor a change to U.S. – Cuba policy. Congressman Moulton is also a co-sponsor of the “Freedom to Travel to Cuba Act,” a bipartisan bill with more than 60 cosponsors that would end restrictions on travel by American citizens and legal residents to Cuba. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit www.moulton.house.gov or find the Congressman on Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram. ###
03.14.2016	House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform to Hold Hearing Featuring Moulton’s Faster Care for Veterans Bill, March 16 March 14th, 2016 Moulton to Present on Growing Support for Bipartisan Bill in Congress Washington, DC – On Wednesday, March 16, the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform will hold a hearing on Congressman Seth Moulton’s (D-MA) bipartisan bill, H.R.4352, the Faster Care for Veterans Act. Moulton introduced the legislation to improve VA scheduling with Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA). The bill is an innovative piece of legislation designed to make critical improvements to veteran health care by utilizing 21st century technology. WHO: Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) WHAT: House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Hearing on Faster Care for Veterans Bill WHEN: Wednesday, March 16, 2016 I 2:00 PM WHERE: 2154 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit www.moulton.house.gov or find the Congressman on Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram. ###
03.09.2016	Congressman Seth Moulton Co-Sponsors Bipartisan Bill to Improve Veteran Access to Mental Health Care Services March 9th, 2016 Moulton: “My fundamental principle is this: Our veterans deserve the best health care in the world.” Salem – MA – Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) worked with Congressman Mike Coffman (R–CO) to introduce the Fairness for Veterans Act, a bipartisan bill aimed at improving critical mental health services for our nation’s veterans. The bill would provide veterans combating post-traumatic stress (PTS) with greater eligibility for mental health services and other resources. Currently, veterans with less-than-honorable discharges, or “bad paper” discharges, may not be eligible for a broad range of health care and benefits including critical mental health care services. “My fundamental principle is this: Our veterans deserve the best health care in the world,” said Moulton. “This bill would make needed improvements to our mental health services for all our veterans, and in particular, it would ensure that veterans combating post-traumatic stress receive the care and benefits they have earned. We have a duty to provide this care, and I am proud to work with my colleague and fellow Marine, Congressman Coffman, to introduce this bipartisan legislation.” “Increasing access to mental health care care is a critical step to combating post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and in the case of veterans with severe mental health problems, access to these services may be life-saving,” said Coffman. “Twenty-two veterans die from suicide each day. This number is far too high and it is my hope that veterans with questionable, less-than-honorable discharges receive quick access to the mental health care they earned and deserve.” The Fairness for Veterans Act ensures that combat veterans, whose condition should have been considered prior to their discharge, receive due consideration in their post-discharge appeals. A less than honorable discharge is often issued to service members for minor misconduct, including being late to formation and being absent without leave. These actions, however, can be linked with behavior seen in returning combat veterans suffering from PTS. Often service members with clear medical histories of PTS have been improperly discharged for minor misconduct rather than receiving a medical discharge or being retained in the military for treatment and rehabilitation. The proposed legislation creates a presumption in favor of the combat veteran during the post-discharge appeals process. If a veteran was deployed to a combat zone and diagnosed by a mental health care professional as experiencing PTS or TBI as a result of their deployment, the military’s Discharge Review Boards (DRB) must consider this diagnosis with a rebuttable presumption in favor of the veteran. This bill is a bipartisan effort supported by Representatives Tim Walz (D-MN), Lee Zeldin (R-NY), Kathleen Rice (D-NY), Ryan Zinke (R-MT), Steve Russell (R-OK), Peter King (R-NY), Walter Jones (R-NC), Tammy Duckworth (D-IL), Patrick Murphy (D-FL), and Ruben Gallego (D-AZ). To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov, or find the Congressman on Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram. ###
03.03.2016	Air Force Moves Management of Critical National Security Communications System to Hanscom U.S. Air Force Base March 3rd, 2016 Moulton Commends Air Force for Establishing Nuclear Command, Control, and Communications (NC3) Integration Office at Hanscom Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) applauded the U.S. Air Force for their decision to establish its Nuclear Command, Control and Communications (NC3) Integration Directorate at Hanscom Air Force Base. Hancom will focus on high-tech radios and terminals to communicate key messages, known as emergency action messages, between national and military leaders and military operators. “Hanscom Air Force base is ideally suited to assist in managing the recapitalization of our nation’s nuclear command, control, and communications infrastructure,” said Moulton. “Modern, effective communications technologies between the President and our military leaders are crucial to safely managing our nuclear capabilities. I look forward to continuing to work with Air Force leadership to ensure Massachusetts is a strong contributor to our national defense.” NC3 is a complex system of land, air, and space component that assure connectivity between our nation’s leaders and military units in charge of our nuclear forces. This new mission will bring 43 new positions to the Base, including a program executive office for NC3, and will leverage Hanscom’s technological expertise. Hanscom Air Force Base is the only active duty Air Force base in New England, is an 846-acre base located in Bedford, Lexington and Lincoln, bordering Concord. At the base, a mix of active-duty military, civilian and contractor employees develop and acquire sophisticated radar, cyber and information technology-based systems that provide critical battlefield situational awareness to U.S. warfighters. Hanscom creates more than 6,000 direct and 10,000 indirect jobs for a total of more than 16,000 jobs, with a fiscal year 2013 economic impact of $6.1 billion for the Commonwealth’s economy. ###
03.02.2016	Congressman Moulton to Host Small Business Committee Field Hearing in Lynn March 2nd, 2016 Area Businesses will discuss the Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) Program Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) and Congressman Richard Hanna (R-NY) announced that they will hold a U.S. House Small Business Committee field hearing in Lynn titled, “Commercializing on Innovation: Reauthorizing the Small Business Innovation Research and Small Business Technology Transfer Programs Part II.” Moulton and Hanna serve on the House Small Business Committee, and this public field hearing in Lynn is one of five throughout the country that the Small Business Committee has scheduled for this session of Congress. The hearing will feature testimony from Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) program grant recipients and advocates from Massachusetts in support of reauthorizing the $2 billion dollar program. The SBIR program is a competitive awards-based program that seeks to foster entrepreneurship and technological advancement for small businesses. “The Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) Program is an example of the type of federal support that spurs innovation. It is a key way for small businesses to be connected with federal resources in order to expand their work through high-tech innovation,” said Moulton. “I am looking forward to hosting Congressman Hanna in Lynn so that we can highlight the SBIR program’s important role.” “In the rapidly growing and ever-changing field of technology, it is often small firms that develop innovative technologies that become staples in the marketplace years later,” said Hanna. “Congress must act to reauthorize SBIR and STTR to provide small businesses with access to the funding and research opportunities that magnify their entrepreneurial spirit and enable them to compete with major technology and research companies.” Following the hearing, area businesses are invited to a reception and SBIR expo where area businesses will demonstrate their products and share SBIR success stories with Congressmen Moulton and Hanna. WHO: Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) Congressman Richard Hanna (R-NY) Ms. Ann Eskesen, President, Innovation Development Institute LLC, Swampscott David Green, Ph.D., President and CEO, Physical Sciences Inc., Andover Charles E. Kolb, Ph.D., President, Aerodyne Research, Inc., Billerica Mr. Walter M. (Jerry) Bird, President, MassVentures, Boston WHAT: House Small Business Committee Field Hearing, “Commercializing on Innovation: Reauthorizing the Small Business Innovation Research and Small Business Technology Transfer Programs Part II” WHERE: Lynn City Hall Council Chambers 3 City Hall Square Lynn, MA WHEN: Tuesday, March 8th, 1-3PM ###
02.28.2016	Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America Endorse Faster Care for Veterans Act February 28th, 2016 Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America Endorse Faster Care for Veterans Act Viral Facebook Video Prompts Growing Bipartisan Support for bill Washington, DC – Today, the Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America Organization, a leading post-9/11 veteran empowerment organization, announced its support for Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) and Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) bipartisan bill, H.R. 4352, the Faster Care for Veterans Act. If passed, the bill would require Veterans Affairs (VA) hospitals to use a patient self-scheduling online application in certain parts of the country to test whether this technology results in increased access to care. The private sector has used patient self-scheduling apps to dramatically reduce the number of missed and canceled appointments, saving time and money in the health system. This pilot would test if the same is true at the VA. “IAVA is a leading voice for our nation’s veterans and I am honored to have their support for the Faster Care for Veterans Act,” said Moulton. “Self-scheduling technologies have been widely successful in the private sector by reducing the number of missed or canceled appointments, saving our health system money and creating a better experience for patients and doctors. This technology already exists and we owe it to our veterans to provide them the same access to high-quality care.” “Veterans should have the same options that patients have in doctors’ offices across the country. Our bill empowers our veterans to make more health care decisions for themselves – based on their own time and schedules – while giving VA employees more tools to do their jobs effectively and efficiently. If the VA is unable to follow through on that responsibility, then we must try something different. Self-scheduling is only one example of the endless creative and innovative ideas to show our gratitude by ensuring veterans receive the care they have earned, and I thank IAVA for the strong support of this common sense, bipartisan effort.” “IAVA congratulates Reps. Seth Moulton and Cathy McMorris Rodgers for introducing this forward-thinking legislation to inject private sector innovation into the VA’s process for scheduling appointments for veterans,” said IAVA Chief Policy Officer Matt Miller. “This legislation is perfectly in sync with our goal of increasing access to quality health care in as timely a manner as possible.” This past week, Moulton posted a video on his official Facebook page of District Representative and Army Veteran, Dennis Magnasco, attempting to make an appointment at the VA, but he could not get past the automated answering service. The video went viral and has been viewed more than 1 million times with 27,000 shares. After it was posted, 17 new Democratic and Republican co-sponsors signed on in support of the Faster Care for Veterans Act. Upon bill introduction, McMorris Rodgers and Moulton spoke with Stars and Stripes Magazine about how this proposal would be more efficient and affordable than agency-proposed alternatives. ABC World News Tonight and Fox & Friends have also covered the bill and need for sensible reforms at the VA. The Faster Care for Veterans Act currently sits before the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee on Health. It has 37 co-sponsors. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit https://moulton.house.gov or find the Congressman on Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram. To learn more about House Republican Conference Chair Cathy McMorris Rodgers, visit mcmorris.house.gov or follow her on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram. ###
02.02.2016	Congressman Seth Moulton Delivers Foreign Policy Address at Atlantic Council February 2nd, 2016 Moulton Speaks about the Opportunity to Reposition U.S. in 2017 Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) delivered a foreign policy address at the Atlantic Council as part of the Brent Scowcroft Center on International Security’s flagship series, “America’s Role in the World.” In his speech, “No Better Friend, No Worse Enemy: American Foreign Policy for the Next President,”Moulton spoke about the need to reaffirm relationships with our allies and counter our adversaries. Mouton’s prepared remarks are below and a link to the video can be viewed here. Remarks as Prepared: Thank you, Honorable Ellen Tauscher, the Atlantic Council and Scowcroft Center for hosting me — it’s an honor. And thanks to all of you for welcoming this dialogue. I look forward to your questions and comments after my remarks, so please don’t be shy. The world is more complicated, and changing more rapidly, than ever before. But one thing must remain the same: the need for strong American leadership. Regardless of your view on President Obama’s leadership, Congressional troublemaking, and the increasingly vitriolic 2016 Presidential campaign, there is no question that today, in 2016, many of our allies feel concerned, and many of our enemies feel emboldened. We have a chance for a reset in January 2017, and we need to take advantage of that opportunity to ensure the U.S. is well positioned for both the challenges and opportunities in the years ahead. The best way to do that can be summed up in a phrase that became the motto of the 1st Marine Division in which I served in under Gen. James Mattis — “No Better Friend, No Worse Enemy.” In America, you will find no better friend, and in America, you will find no worse enemy. So let’s talk about “no better friend” first. We are at our best when we act with our allies to tackle the world’s toughest challenges. We all know this from history, and I have seen it on the ground in Iraq where I served alongside British, Polish, and Iraqi troops. Working with our coalition partners wasn’t always easy, but it was far better that they were there. Working with our allies gives us strength, leverage to do more than we have the capacity to do on our own and, importantly, it gives us credibility. Standing here at the Atlantic Council, founded just over a decade after the Second World War with a mission of “fostering and encouraging the cooperation between North America and Europe,” I can’t overstate the importance of our ongoing relationships with our closest allies including the United Kingdom, France, Germany, and other European allies with whom we share unprecedented common history, culture, values, and commitment to ideals. Even our closest friendships will suffer if not regularly reaffirmed. In Eastern Europe, we supported countries as they democratized after the fall of the Soviet Union and we must continue to support them in the face of Russian aggression. When I visited Eastern Europe last year, together with the chair of the Armed Services Committee, we could feel the concerns — dare I say, fear — of Russia among the Eastern European officials we met. Hearing stories of Polish citizens lining the roads as American tanks rolled in to train, and saying, “We’ve been waiting seventy-five years for the Americans to come,” was powerful. Some of the Polish troops I served with and befriended in Iraq used to joke about their low morale, but the Polish troops we met on this trip were incredibly enthusiastic to be training with Americans. And the American generals eagerly detailed their plans to survey bridges in Eastern Europe to extend, further east, their 1950s plans to counter a Red Army invasion. While we’re executing tank drills and surveying bridges, the Russian Army is conducting cutting-edge hybrid warfare to counter NATO’s influence. They’re initiating daily cyber-attacks against our NATO allies, undermining their political leaders with sophisticated propaganda, and recruiting local support through their version of Voice of America. We need to provide more than tank parades and 50-year-old strategy to counter a rapidly innovating Russian threat. In the Middle East, as we face the barbarity and depravity that is ISIS, a changing Iran, and the heart of the Arab world in flux, we must engage more deeply with our allies and make it clear the U.S. has no intention of abandoning the region at perhaps its most pivotal moment in centuries. We must remain committed to our closest partner in the region, Israel, with whom we share deep political, social, cultural, and economic ties. At the same time, our Arab allies are best positioned to be at the forefront of the fight against ISIS, and we must intensify coordination and regional diplomacy with our allies in the Gulf and Levant. When I was in Israel last summer, we heard from a veteran journalist who said, “America will be hated for doing too much in the Middle East, and America will be hated for doing too little. You should always do too much.” It resonated with an answer I received from President Ghani to a question I posed to him in Kabul in February. I was on the first Congressional delegation to meet with the new president, and he talked optimistically about organizing an Arab coalition to take on ISIS. He might as well have told our small bipartisan team of U.S. congressmen that he was making an anonymous donation to the U.S. Treasury — it was music to our ears. So I asked him, “Mr. President, what can the U.S. do to support you — and maybe, I said, the best thing we can do is to get out of the way.” To that, he responded, “Absolutely not. Whether you like it or not,” he continued, “the U.S. Fifth Fleet is the only thing holding the situation together, and even if it’s just telling people to come to the table, U.S. leadership is needed.” We need to provide that leadership and that continuous, heavily-engaged diplomatic presence to our allies in the Middle East. Third, in East Asia, we have enormous interests — not only economic but political — and China is our only true geopolitical peer. China will continue to grow and expand its influence in the region and in emerging markets across the world. We must show our commitment to our long-standing treaty allies — Japan and Taiwan through strengthened commercial and defense ties as we work to deepen our relationships with the thriving economies of ASEAN who find themselves looking for U.S. leadership in the face of often one-sided Chinese engagement. Those are three ways, in Europe, the Middle East, and in East Asia, that the United States can be a better friend to our allies. Simultaneously, we must match the depth of commitment we have to allies with our depth of commitment to defeating our enemies. First, this means defeating ISIS. ISIS is a national security threat to the United States, and so we must have a serious, comprehensive strategy to defeat ISIS. Doing so requires a whole-of-government approach, and as a Marine infantry veteran who found himself doing a lot of reconstruction work in Iraq that should have been handled by the State Department, I will say upfront that this comprehensive strategy must be guided and underpinned by a political and diplomatic plan to ensure the peace. This was the huge mistake we made after we left Iraq — disengaging politically, and thereby allowing a political vacuum to develop in Iraq that ISIS swept in to occupy. As a veteran of the Surge, where I saw many young Americans killed and wounded in a heroic effort to turn that misguided war around, it was hard to return to Baghdad as a Member of Congress and see so much of what we had fought for — and achieved — during the surge, gone to waste. Now, under the President who vowed to pull us out of Iraq, we’ve sent Americans back in just five years after we left. We must not repeat this mistake again — not again in Iraq, not in Afghanistan, and not with whatever we do in Syria. I’ve been to Iraq and Afghanistan and to many of our surrounding Middle Eastern bases, and I have reasonable confidence in our military plans to defeat ISIS. But I still do not have confidence in our diplomatic plans to ensure the peace — to ensure that, after our troops do their job, we won’t find the next ISIS emerging to occupy a new political vacuum left in our wake. Our political plans must guide our military effort, not the other way around as is the case today. I was particularly shocked to receive several briefings from our commanders in the Middle East that contained phases I-III of a military operation but nothing about phase IV, reconstruction and stability operations — as if this wasn’t perhaps the single biggest lesson we learned from the Iraq invasion in 2003. A serious political plan means well-defined political goals in both Iraq and Syria and a diplomatic plan to ensure their success both in concert with military action and following on from it. And this must all begin with much more serious engagement from our State Department. Ambassador Crocker, the rightly celebrated co-lead of the Surge with General Petraeus, has suggested that Secretary Kerry begin by spending two weeks in Baghdad himself. Regardless of whether or not the Secretary does that this year, our next Secretary should. At a high level, these political plans should support the Abadi government in Iraq, they should give more power to the Sunnis, and they should counter Iranian influence. The Iraqi government should be more federalist, but I am personally not of the belief that splitting up the country will improve things. I would rather have Iraqi politicians bickering over oil revenues in Parliament than fighting over borders in the Iraqi desert. While I don’t claim to be a diplomatic expert, I would be happy to explore these specifics in greater detail. But the key point is that we must have a clear plan. And, everyone in our counter-ISIS effort, whether a social media hacker in Maryland or a Special Forces captain outside Mosul must understand this plan clearly and it must guide all of our efforts. And foundational to this mission must be developing Sunni-backed local forces to hold the peace. This will be difficult, this will be frustrating, but it’s the only way to ensure lasting success in the parts of Iraq ISIS threatens or controls. It would be more convenient in the short-term to arm the Kurds because they are great and trustworthy fighters. It would be more convenient in the short-term to employ the Shiite militias because they are already organized and equipped. But the only way to make this work in the end is with Sunni forces who believe in the mission, are empowered to succeed, and have a stake in the political future of their country. In Syria, one of the most complex, destructive civil wars the world has ever seen continues to devastate the country, killing hundreds of thousands and creating over 12 million refugees. Syria is more complicated than Iraq — and related to what we do there as well, of course — but the principle remains the same: A serious political and diplomatic strategy must underpin and guide our military actions, and I don’t think we’ve had that for some time. For example, if you listen to what the Administration has been saying, it sounds like they are planning for a diplomatic transition from Asaad’s leadership; yet by arming various opposition groups without a clear and coherent plan for what they will do, you would think they are pushing for overthrowing the Asaad government militarily. It’s an incoherent strategy. And it’s worth pointing out here, as much as it pains me to do so, that Russia is doing much better on this count. Every eighteen year-old Russian kid from Kursk knows his country’s strategic, political plan in Syria — the mission that he is ultimately fighting to support. It is to keep Asaad in power. It’s a terrible mission that is fundamentally opposed, not only to our goals in Syria, but to their own. But, regardless of the wisdom of the mission, the point is that their mission is clear. I’m afraid ours is not. Any U.S. troops that play a role in training or partnering with these forces must be given a clear mission, to include a clear political end state, and the resources and commitment to win. The principal task must be redoubling efforts recently revived by Secretary Kerry and the contact group in Geneva and organizing a political transition from the Assad regime. This may well require organizing a stronger opposition — not just training and equipping them militarily, but organizing them politically. Overthrowing the regime militarily has simply not worked to date despite military assistance to the opposition. As in Iraq, the only way to ensure such a transition is lasting — both politically and militarily — is to ensure we have Sunni-backed local forces to hold the peace. Second, beyond the Middle East and the critical turning point Iraq and Syria both face, we must stand up to Russian aggression and its efforts to flout the basic tenants of international conduct. Churchill famously declared Russia a “riddle wrapped in a mystery inside an enigma, but perhaps there is a key — that key is the Russian national interest.” Much has changed since Churchill’s time but some things have not. The U.S. and our allies continue to work with Russia when those interests converge, but increasingly they do not. When Russia works with us on international problems, it is easier to resolve them. Russia worked with the U.S. on the Iran deal; without Russian assistance shipping out Iranian uranium stocks and pressure on Iran to accept the deal in its final hours, the historic nuclear agreement may not have happened. But often in Syria, in Europe and other areas, Russia has not worked with the international community and continues to violate sovereign borders, flout international law and ignore basic human rights. In Ukraine, Russia’s former client government collapsed under pressure from citizens yearning for greater engagement with Europe and modernization that Russia could not provide. In Syria, Russia continues to support the brutal Assad regime, clinging to vestiges of its only surviving Middle Eastern client. Its haphazard intervention meant to benefit the Assad regime has targeted opposition groups (not ISIS) which often stand the best chance of making gains against the regime and defending civilians against the horrific violence of regime onslaughts. Contrary to popular belief, Russia is not operating from a position of strength. Much to the contrary, this is a country in decline, desperately seeking to restore vestiges of its past glory. Inflation continues with the ruble whipsawing violently — in 2015 alone it lost half its value against the dollar. Sanctions plague Russia’s financial sector, costing it as much as 1.5 percent of GDP. And, its heavy, outmoded reliance on oil as a principal source of state revenue at a time when prices are at an all-time low jeopardizes its strength. Russia’s desperate situation is precisely what makes it so dangerous — and precisely what should concern us here in the U.S. — an emboldened President Putin increasingly driven towards rash, short term calculations. Without a proactive, effective strategy to meet Russia on the advanced battlefield of hybrid warfare and counter President Putin’s whole-of-government strategy against NATO, Russian influence will only continue to grow despite their fundamental economic weakness. Finally, along with defeating ISIS in Iraq and Syria and countering Russia’s aggressive expansionism, the next administration must work to counter Iran’s destabilizing actions while ensuring effective implementation of the nuclear deal. I supported the nuclear deal with Iran because it is the best option we have available today to prevent Iran from getting a nuclear weapon. Since the conclusion of the deal, a number of prominent foreign policy and defense leaders have recognized its significance, including Efraim Halevy, the former head of the Mossad, as well as over 50 former high-level U.S. diplomats and senior military leaders. Even the current Chief of Staff of the Israeli Defense Forces, Gadi Eizenkot characterized the deal as an ‘historic opportunity.” Recently, the U.S. and international community have verified that Iran has taken preliminary steps necessary to fulfill its obligations under the terms of the deal. But at the same time, Iran has fired off ballistic missiles in flagrant violation of UN Security Council Resolutions. They continue to finance international terrorism, support our enemies and oppose our allies. American troops that I served with in Iraq we killed by Iran and Iranian weapons. Let me be clear, the Iran Nuclear Deal is an important step towards preventing Iran from getting a nuclear weapon. But Iran remains our enemy and the deal will only be effective if it is strongly enforced. That’s why I, along with Republican Reid Ribble of Wisconsin, recently introduced a bipartisan resolution mapping out an effective path forward for the U.S. and international community for the months and years to come. This resolution first calls on the President, Congress, and international partners to ensure the IAEA, the State Department and the Treasury Department have the tools necessary to make sure we are inspecting and implementing the deal to the strictest, fullest extent possible. Second, the resolution urges the President to reaffirm our relationship with Israel and support our closest ally in the region with the tools it needs to defend itself. This means continued intelligence and counterterrorism support to maintain Israel’s safety against Iranian-funded groups like Hezbollah and Hamas as well as support for increased funding for Iron Dome and David’s Sling missile defense systems. It also urges the President to act now to finalize a new ten-year Memorandum of Understanding between the U.S. and Israel. Third, my resolution calls on the President and the international community to remain committed to countering Iran’s harmful actions throughout the Middle East and across the world. While at a state-level, Iran continues to fund and support the brutal Assad regime in Syria, militant activities of Hezbollah in Lebanon as well as Syria, it also supports individual terrorist actors in efforts against the U.S. and its allies. We have engaged with Iran diplomatically to keep it from obtaining a nuclear weapon but we shouldn’t have any illusions about their other activities in the region. Just last month, an Iranian funded and supplied militia kidnapped 3 American contractors in Iraq. That’s why I am calling on the President to act at the UN Security Council in response to the recent Iranian ballistic missile tests and act to ensure the U.S. and our allies in the region increase efforts to counter Iranian support to forces seeking to destabilize the region. Just within the context of our relationship with Iran we can see how “no better friend, no worse enemy” can be effectively employed. Where Iran is compliant, we uphold our diplomatic commitments without compromise; where they continue to flout international agreements outside the nuclear deal, supporting international terrorism and threatening us and our allies, we will stand strongly against them. Countering Iran’s destabilizing actions, standing up to Russia’s aggressive expansionism, and defeating ISIS with a comprehensive military andpolitical strategy for Iraq and Syria — these are three principal places where our adversaries must have no doubt that we are unwavering in our commitment to stand strong against them. As we move to re-set in January 2017, and take advantage of this turning point to strengthen our commitments to our allies and pursue a more comprehensive strategy to confronting our enemies, we must ensure we have the tools to do so. We simply can’t face the challenges and the threats of 21st century with a 20th century toolbox. This means reforming how our government uses the three critical levers at its disposal in foreign policy — defense, diplomacy, and development. First, we can’t address any of the threats I described — or effectively work with our allies — if our Defense Department is still mired in 20th century ways of thinking and doing business. In order to do so, the Department must aggressively move forward on serious acquisition reform. Only by updating and making acquisition processes more agile can we provide our servicemembers and military planners the tools they need to effectively counter the threats I outlined. Acquisition reform is also needed to prevent repeat episodes of wasted time and money on troublesome projects like the LCS and the F-35. Bringing the Pentagon fully into the 21st century also means doubling down on the Third Offset Strategy and capitalizing on areas where the U.S. has a decided advantage over even our most advanced adversaries. This includes next generation robotics and system autonomy, miniaturization, big data, and advanced manufacturing. Finally, our defense and intelligence community must accelerate cooperation on a new, comprehensive cyber warfare policy. In years to come, the cyber domain will remain highly contested, with our adversaries seeking to exploit U.S. government and private sector vulnerabilities. Unless we more fully integrate the efforts of CYBERCOM, the service branches and the intelligence community, I am concerned we are vulnerable to the same ‘stove-piping’ the 9/11 Commission identified as so problematic to our counter-terrorism bureaucracy. Before I ran for Congress, I had a job as the managing director of Texas Central Railway, a high-speed rail project privately funded down in Dallas. I had this great office, this corner office on the 42nd floor in downtown Dallas and I looked out at the AT&T world headquarters across the street. I had an AT&T cell phone and I dropped on average three or four calls a day while looking out at the world headquarters. What’s the one thing you didn’t see on the world headquarters? Cell towers. They must know they cause cancer, that’s my theory. But in any event, it was extremely frustrating. I would stand there with my AT&T cell phone looking straight out at the top of their building dropping my calls. I used to think gosh it would be great to have one of those rockets I used to have in my Marine platoon. But here’s the thing, if the Chinese felt the same way and they were to send a squad of the Chinese army to shoot a rocket at the AT&T headquarters building, we would know exactly how we would respond as a country. But if instead the Chinese military decides to attack that headquarters through the internet, to take the personal data of everybody in this room and across the country who has an AT&T cell phone, I don’t think we even know who would be in charge of the response. Is that the Department of Homeland Security, is it NSA, is it the Department of Defense? We have some fundamental work to do — before we even get to the details of resourcing certain programs over others — in terms of our cyber warfare policy. While our military tools are an important element of working with allies and standing up to our adversaries, our diplomatic toolbox is just as important as our defense toolbox in confronting the world’s most complex challenges. Many of these challenges are at their root political problems where military means are often a necessary but not sufficient part of the solution. Recently, we have seen the fruits of tough diplomacy in preventing Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon, in turning a corner with Cuba and ending a failed, Cold War era policy, and in removing Syria’s declare stocks of chemical weapons. Unfortunately, despite these gains, there are those in Congress who advocate cutting the State Department’s budget at every opportunity and advocate a smaller role for our diplomats in solving these problems. Reforming our diplomatic toolbox not only means sufficiently funding our diplomatic efforts, it also means directing and enabling our diplomats to engage with a wide-variety of actors in all corners of the world. I greatly respect former Ambassador Ryan Crocker who often speaks of ‘expeditionary diplomacy’ — this is the idea that despite the risks involved, our diplomats must lead from the front, be engaged in the field, and actively partner with our military. Finally, we cannot discount the importance of international aid in our development toolbox for addressing drivers of conflict and root causes of extremism. I saw firsthand in Iraq how important the provisioning of basic services and economic livelihood was to turning the corner in public sentiment against militant groups and those that seek violence as an end. In fact, after leading one of the first platoons into Baghdad as an infantry officer, I suddenly found myself in charge of a TV station, a radio station and a newspaper. Although I was totally untrained for it, this was important development work in post-invasion Iraq. Incidentally, this was also work the State Department should have been empowered to do itself. Today, we still face many of these same challenges — in Afghanistan as popular support for the National Unity government wavers and reconstruction efforts wane in rural provinces — in Iraq where Sunnis still have trouble receiving the basic services and support a government is meant to provide — and most of all in Syria where the existence of a state structure and the most basic semblance of order has long ceased. In these and other areas of the world, including Africa, Latin America, and Southeast Asia, USAID and multilateral development partners must be part of the solution. Only be weaving together the levers of defense, diplomacy and development can the U.S. effectively tackle the challenges it will face in years to come. As we look to 2017, and a new leader in the White House, we have an opportunity to reposition ourselves in the world. We must continue to use all the tools available to us — diplomacy must be smart and tough, our defense department must be cutting edge, and our development efforts must be used strategically. America is an indispensible global leader and the world will be a safer place if everybody knows — from our closest allies to our fiercest foes — that there is no better friend and no worse enemy than the United States of America. Thank you. ###
01.29.2016	Congressman Seth Moulton and Senators Coons, Gillibrand Call on President Obama to Invest in National Service January 29th, 2016 90 Legislators Support Robust National Service Program Funding in President’s Final Budget Salem, MA – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) and a bipartisan group of legislators from both the House and Senate called on President Obama to request increased federal funding for the Corporation for National and Community Service (CNCS). Moulton’s letter to the President was signed by 23 Senators and 67 Representatives. The 90 legislators are united in their appeal for robust funding for national service programs in the President’s final budget request to Congress. CNCS oversees a wide range of national service programs, including AmeriCorps, Senior Corps, AmeriCorps VISTA and the Social Innovation Fund. The legislators laud the localized, community-driven approach of these programs, which exist in every Congressional district in the country. “For me, military service was a life-changing experience, and I believe every American should have the opportunity to give back to our country through public service,” said Moulton. “The Corporation for National and Community Service (CNCS) provides the opportunity for millions of Americans of all ages to serve their communities. These programs add tremendous value to every state across our country, including programs right here in the Sixth District. Giving more Americans the opportunity to serve by investing in national service will make us a stronger nation.” “We join Senators Kirsten Gillibrand and Chris Coons, Representative Seth Moulton and the National Service Congressional Caucus in urging the Administration to increase funding for CNCS so that Americans of all ages have the opportunity to serve and volunteer in their community,” said AnnMaura Connolly, President, Voices for National Service. Moulton’s letter reflects his continued focus on ensuring every willing American has the opportunity to serve his or her community. Late last year, he fought successfully to increase AmeriCorps funding by 15%. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit www.moulton.house.gov or find the Congressman on Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram. ###
01.27.2016	Congressmen Seth Moulton, Reid Ribble to Introduce Bipartisan Iran Resolution at Press Conference, Wednesday January 27th, 2016 Iran Deal Implementation and Accountability Act Earns Democratic and Republican Support Salem, MA – Today, Congressmen Seth Moulton (D-MA) and Reid Ribble (R-WI) introduced a comprehensive, bipartisan Iran Resolution: “The Iran Deal Implementation and Accountability Act” that maps out an effective path forward for the U.S. and international community. The three-part plan aims to ensure effective implementation of the Iran Nuclear Deal, reaffirm our relationship with Israel and counter destabilizing Iranian actions. “We need a clear-eyed, bipartisan approach to make sure the Iran deal is strictly implemented and that we continue to support our allies in the region while countering Iran’s destabilizing actions,” said Moulton. “Our resolution maps out an effective path forward for the U.S. and international community for the months and years to come.” “We owe it to our kids and grandkids not only to ensure that Iran doesn’t acquire nuclear weapons in the short term, but also to lay the groundwork for a safe and secure future for the U.S. and our regional allies,” Ribble said. “The Iran Deal Implementation and Accountability Act is a forward-looking resolution that charts a path forward with Iran, Israel, and our allies around the world.” The Iran Deal Implementation Accountability Act has three pillars, including: Ensure Effective Implementation of the Nuclear Deal: The resolution calls on the President, Congress, and international partners to ensure the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), the State Department and the Treasury Department have the tools for inspection and implementation of the Iran Deal. Reaffirm our Relationship with Our Allies in the Region: The resolution pledges U.S. support for Israel and seeks to provide expanded tools for Israel to defend itself against destabilizing forces in the region through intelligence and counterterrorism support as well as missile defense. It also calls on the executive to implement a ten-year Memorandum of Understanding between the US and Israel. Counter Destabilizing Iranian Actions: The resolution calls on the President and the international community to remain committed to countering Iran’s harmful actions throughout the Middle East and across the world. In the coming days, Moulton and Ribble will circulate The Iran Deal Implementation and Accountability Act to their colleagues in Congress and build additional bipartisan support. Already, cosponsors include Gerry Connolly (D-VA), Joseph P. Kennedy III (D-MA) and Jeff Duncan (R-SC). Read the full text of the resolution: Iran Resolution Text To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit www.moulton.house.gov or find the Congressman on Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram. ###
01.14.2016	Moulton to Host Forum on Opportunities for Massachusetts Exporters January 14th, 2016 “North Shore Export Forum: Opportunities for Massachusetts Exporters” Event in Amesbury Washington, D.C. – Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) will host the “North Shore Export Forum: Opportunities for Massachusetts Exporters” on January 19, 2016 in Amesbury, MA. The Forum will convene state business export leaders and government officials on two different panels to speak about their successes and best practices. The event will also feature one-on-one networking time for attendees and the panelists. Numerous groups are represented at this Forum, including: U.S. Department of Commerce’s U.S. Commercial Service, Massachusetts Small Business Development Center Network: Mass Export Center, Associated Industries of Massachusetts, Massachusetts Office of International Trade and Investment, Small Business Administration, MassDevelopment. The Chesnut Innovation Center is sponsoring the event. WHO: Congressman Seth Moulton, Massachusetts business leaders WHAT: North Shore Export Forum: Opportunities for Massachusetts Exporters WHEN: January 19, 2016 I 9:00AM-12:00PM WHERE: Chesnut Innovation Center, 11 Chesnut St. Amesbury, MA ###
01.14.2016	Congressman Seth Moulton Introduces the Faster Care for Veterans Act January 14th, 2016 Washington, DC – Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) and Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) co-introduced H.R. 4352, the Faster Care for Veterans Act, an innovative piece of legislation designed to make critical improvements to veteran health care by utilizing 21st century technology. The bill would allow patients to self-schedule appointments from their smart phones or computers with the click of a button. Self-scheduling technologies have been widely successful in the private sector by reducing the number of missed or cancelled appointments and saving our health system money and creating a better experience for patients and doctors. “For far too long, our nation’s veterans have been underserved by inefficient and outdated systems,” said Moulton. “I get my care from the VA and I’ve waited hours for appointments and months for referrals. It doesn’t have to be this way. We owe it to our nation’s veterans to utilize the technology available to the private sector. Improving access to healthcare through a platform like this would ensure that our veterans will get the best care when they need it.” The bill seeks to connect private sector innovation to the Department of Veterans Affairs by requiring the VA to pilot an online self-scheduling app for VA patients. This legislation will equip the VA with the same state-of-the-art technology enjoyed by patients in the private sector to improve the quality of veteran health care services. Moulton has made veterans’ care a top priority during this congress. In June 2015, Moulton introduced his first package of legislation: The VA Education Training and Sustainability (VETS) Act, four bills aimed at improving the talent pipeline at Veterans Affairs medical facilities across the country. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit www.moulton.house.gov or find the Congressman on Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
01.12.2016	Congressman Moulton to Host Congress on Your Corner Events in Peabody, Tewksbury and Saugus on Saturday January 12th, 2016 Salem, MA – Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) will be holding Congress on Your Corner events in Peabody, Tewksbury and Saugus this Saturday, January 16th. Constituents are invited to come and meet with Moulton and his staff. Congress on Your Corner events provide constituents with an opportunity to meet the Congressman, speak with him and his staff about issues with federal agencies, or share their perspective on important topics. Moulton will hold a Congress on Your Corner event in each of the 6th District’s 39 towns and cities in 2016. Congress on Your Corner Events on Saturday, January 16th 9:00am-10:00am Congress On Your Corner in Peabody Peabody Institute Library (Sutton Room) 82 Main Street, Peabody 11:00am – 12:00pm Congress On Your Corner in Tewksbury Tewksbury Public Library 300 Chandler Street, Tewksbury 2:00 – 3:00pm Congress On Your Corner in Saugus Saugus Public Library (Community Room) 265 Central Street, Saugus ###
01.11.2016	Congressman Seth Moulton to Host Nine-Year Old Syrian Refugee at State of the Union Address January 11th, 2016 Boy lost both arms in regime airstrike on Syrian refugee camp, seeks asylum in US Washington, D.C. – Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) will host a nine-year old Syrian refugee named Ahmad Alkhalaf as his guest during President Obama’s final State of the Union Address tomorrow. When a bomb hit the Syrian refugee camp where Ahmad and his family were living, it killed three of his siblings and caused Ahmad to lose both of his arms. Ahmad and his father now live in the Boston area, where Ahmad has been receiving medical care from Boston Children’s Hospital. His mother and four other siblings are living in Turkey. In a letter he wrote to President Obama, Ahmad tells his story and asks the President to consider the plight of other Syrian refugees and particularly children. “There are many children like me. Even if they did not lose their arms, then they lost everything else,” he wrote. “No one should experience in a lifetime what Ahmad has experienced at just nine years old,” said Moulton. “His courage and commitment to creating a better world should be a lesson to us all. We have a moral responsibility to uphold our American principles and that means helping kids like Ahmad who are fleeing from violence. Ahmad’s story is an example of why we must not abandon our American values of hope and freedom.” Ahmad will be accompanied by his father and Nadia Alawa, executive director at NuDay Syria, a New England-based NGO. Alawa will also serve as a translator for Ahmad and his father. U.S. Committee for Refugee and Immigrants also played an important role in organizing and planning the family’s visit to Washington, D.C. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit www.moulton.house.gov or find the Congressman on Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram. ###
01.08.2016	Congressman Moulton Leads Bipartisan Effort to Improve At Sea Monitoring Program January 8th, 2016 Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) sent a letter to Undersecretary Kathryn Sullivan at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) to voice strong support for the New England Fishery Management Council’s (Council) proposed At Sea Monitoring (ASM) reforms. As costs are expected to shift to the fishing industry, regional House and Senate members committed to improving the science that is used to set ASM coverage rates and safeguarding cost efficiencies. “I want to thank Administrator Bullard and the Council for taking these steps to improve the At Sea Monitoring program,” said Moulton. “At a time when our fishing industry is already facing serious financial hardship, it’s critical that we implement systems that both enhance sustainable management and ensure the long-term economic viability of the fishery.” The New England fishing community, including members of the Northeast Seafood Coalition, also expressed their support for the Council’s proposed reforms. “It is time to use the wealth of data generated over these years to design an ASM program that is both effective and cost efficient,” said Jackie Odell, Executive Director of the Northeast Seafood Coalition. “Northeast Seafood Coalition (NSC) continues to fully support Congressional efforts to offset costs of the ASM program to the commercial groundfish fishermen, but evolving the coverage-rate methodology at this juncture is a critical step forward.” If adopted, the Council’s reforms would be implemented for fishing year 2016. “NSC truly appreciates the exceptional region-wide support from our Congressional representatives for the policy and analytical improvements to the ASM program recently adopted by the New England Fishery Management Council with the support of GARFO Administrator John Bullard,” said Odell. “We are particularly thankful to Congressman Moulton for his leadership in spearheading this very important letter to NOAA Administrator Sullivan,” she said. Senators Warren, Shaheen, Ayotte, King, Collins, Murphy, Blumenthal, Whitehouse, Reed, and Congressmen Keating, Lynch, Guinta, Courtney, Poliquin, Pingree and Capuano signed on to the letter. To learn more about Congressman Seth Moulton visit www.moulton.house.gov or find the Congressman on Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram. ###
11.23.2015	Governor Baker, Congressman Moulton, and Lynn Officials Announce the Launch of the Lynn Economic Advancement and Development (LEAD) Team November 23rd, 2015 Lynn, Mass. – Today, Gov. Charlie Baker, Congressman Seth Moulton, Mayor Judith Flanagan Kennedy, Senator Thomas M. McGee, Representatives Fennell, Ehrlich, Wong, and Crighton, and other government and community officials announced the launch of the Lynn Economic Advancement and Development (LEAD) Team, a cross-governmental working group that will promote community revitalization in the city of Lynn by aligning economic development initiatives among federal, state and local officials. The working group will coordinate community planning efforts, and will enable expedited permitting and development on underutilized real estate parcels. “Lynn is the front door to our district and is home to a diverse community of people who understand hard work,” said Congressman Seth Moulton. “This community needs high-paying jobs, better housing and more opportunity. This team will bring local, state and federal resources together to make that happen.” “The city of Lynn has tremendous economic development assets, including an enviable but underutilized waterfront, and strong transportation links to Boston,” said Gov. Baker. “By aligning our efforts and unlocking tough development sites, we will enable Lynn to capitalize on its potential, drive private investment, job creation, and new housing opportunities.” “Our administration is committed to fostering collaboration with municipalities,” said Lt. Gov. Karyn Polito. “I am thrilled that this innovative partnership will enable this important Gateway City to foster community development.” “Governor Baker and Secretary Ash have clearly made Lynn a priority and we welcome them with open arms,” said Jim Cowdell of the Economic Development and Industrial Corporation of Lynn. “Their support, combined with our federal partners, positions Lynn for great economic opportunities in the future. We look forward to working together for the betterment of Lynn.” “This is an exciting day for Lynn and the Commonwealth,” said Representative Brendan Crighton. “I am honored to be part of this Team and I look forward to working with my federal, state and local partners to continue to make Lynn a city I am proud to call home.” “I am pleased to be a part of this unprecedented collaboration between local, state, and federal officials,” said Senator Thomas M. McGee. “We have many recent successes to build upon, and our goal is to align and coordinate efforts to continue the forward momentum of economic development in the City of Lynn.” “I am looking forward to working with Governor Baker, Secretary Ash, Congressman Moulton, and our State Delegation to bring in State and Federal resources to assist us in Economic Development projects that we have identified,” said Mayor Judith Flanagan Kennedy. “The Council is excited to join this unprecedented coalition focused on Lynn’s current economic vitality and growth,” said City Council President, Dan Cahill. The Lynn Economic Advancement and Development Team is comprised of US Rep. Seth Moulton, the Lynn legislative delegation, Lynn Mayor Judith Flanagan Kennedy, the Economic Development and Industrial Corporation of Lynn, Lynn City Council President Daniel Cahill, MassDevelopment CEO Marty Jones, Housing and Economic Development Secretary Jay Ash, Energy and Environmental Affairs Secretary Matthew Beaton, and Transportation Secretary Stephanie Pollack. Team members will meet quarterly, and commit staff to engaging on a weekly basis. Tight coordination between team members and their staffs will enable the development team to align their efforts around priority economic development sites, many of which present difficult cross-jurisdictional issues. ###
11.23.2015	Moulton to Host Roundtable and Press Conference with Syrian Refugees, Law Enforcement, and Community Groups Tomorrow November 23rd, 2015 Salem, Mass. – Tomorrow, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-Mass.) will host a roundtable with Syrian refugees, the Massachusetts Immigrant and Refugee Advocacy (MIRA) Coalition, law enforcement officials, and community groups to discuss issues facing the refugee community in Massachusetts and the importance of strong federal policies that protect Americans and uphold our values. Moulton will join the roundtable participants in a press conference immediately following the roundtable at 2:45pm. The roundtable comes on the heels of a Boston Globe column that highlighted Moulton’s leadership on the issue and his personal experience with his Iraqi translator, Mohammed, who sought asylum in the United States. WHAT: Roundtable with the Refugee Community WHO: Congressman Moulton, Congresswoman Clark, Syrian refugees, and representatives from law enforcement and community groups WHEN: Tomorrow, November 24 at 2:45pm WHERE: Massachusetts Immigrant and Refugee Advocacy Coalition 105 Chauncy Street, 9th Floor Boston, MA 02111 Tomorrow’s roundtable reflects Moulton’s continued focus on this important issue. Moulton published an opinion piece in the Boston Globe today arguing that “‘pausing’ refugee immigration will not help our national security — it may directly harm it” and that shutting the door on Syrian refugees will be “another propaganda tool” for ISIS. For more information about Congressman Seth Moulton visit our website or find the Congressman on Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
11.20.2015	Moulton Statement on Opposing Effort to Block Refugees Fleeing ISIS November 20th, 2015 Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) released the following statement regarding his vote against H.R. 4038, the American SAFE Act of 2015: “The Paris attacks underscore the need to defeat – not just contain – ISIS. Yet shutting the door on Syrian refugees who are fleeing the very terrorists we’re fighting is inconsistent with our values and will not help us defeat ISIS. “I fully support increasing the security and effectiveness of the refugee program, but H.R. 4038 was not a serious effort to do so. It was a counterproductive measure that would add needless red tape and delays to an already strong process.” ###
11.18.2015	Reps. Moulton and Brat Introduce Bipartisan Bill to Increase Government Transparency November 18th, 2015 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congressmen Seth Moulton (D-Mass.) and Dave Brat (R-Va.) introduced yesterday H.R. 4006, the Statutes at Large Modernization Act, which would put the United States Statutes at Large online in a digital and searchable format. “Investments in civic technology are essential for a modern democracy,” said Rep. Moulton. “In 2015, citizens rightly expect easy online access to the laws that affect their daily lives, and that’s what this commonsense bill achieves. I thank Congressman Brat for his leadership on transparency issues and look forward to getting this bill to the President’s desk.” “Transparency is essential in ensuring the federal government is accountable to the American people. With transparency comes an informed public, an essential foundation for democracy,” said Congressman Brat. “The Statutes at Large Modernization Act will ensure that Americans have easy access to the entire legal history of the United States by putting it online. This simple step will empower citizens with better knowledge of the laws that affect their daily lives and to those that governed earlier generations of Americans.” Leading groups working to improve government transparency have endorsed this bill including the Sunlight Foundation, R Street Institute, Demand Progress, Liberty Coalition, Data Transparency Coalition, OpentheBooks.com, and Niskanen Center. “In the transparency age, elected officials have a responsibility to make it easier for citizens to access information. We commend U.S. Representatives Brat and Moulton for taking this important step to open the books and post federal statutes online on behalf of all Americans. As such we at OpenTheBooks.com endorse this newly proposed legislation: the ‘Statutes at Large Modernization Act,’” said Adam Andrzejewski, Founder of OpenTheBooks.com For more information about Congressman Seth Moulton visit our website or find the Congressman on Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram. ###
11.05.2015	Moulton Statement on the Passage of the National Defense Authorization Act November 5th, 2015 Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) released the following statement on the passage of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016: “Today, I voted in favor of a revised National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016. This bill is the product of hard work between both parties following the Bipartisan Budget Agreement and gives our service members the stability and support they need. “Having completed our important work on this bill, we should take this opportunity to find a permanent solution to the damaging cuts of sequestration that will hamstring not only our military and but also other important priorities like transportation, scientific research, and the education of our children. Nonetheless, I support the bill and remind members that we must not let the perfect be the enemy of the good. “As we honor our nation’s veterans next week, we must ensure that politics never gets in the way of our nation’s security and the important role the United States plays in the world.” For more information about Congressman Seth Moulton visit our website or find the Congressman on Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram. ###
11.04.2015	Moulton, Massachusetts Delegation Call on VA to Share Prescription Drug Data with State Database November 4th, 2015 Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) called on the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to share prescription drug information with a state database that tracks prescriptions for patients outside the VA. The state-based program, known as a Prescription Drug Monitoring Program, helps prevent the accidental or intentional misuse of prescription drugs. The entire Massachusetts Congressional delegation signed Moulton’s letter sent today to VA Secretary Robert A. McDonald. “[T]he heroin and prescription drug crisis has reached epidemic proportions in Massachusetts and many other states across the country,” Moulton and the delegation wrote. “The problem is particularly severe in the veteran community, which has a higher rate of prescription drug abuse than the general population.” Due to minor differences in the state and federal databases, the VA does not currently share information with the Commonwealth. The agency told Moulton it would begin operational testing on information sharing in April 2016. Give the severity of the prescription drug crisis in Massachusetts, Moulton is calling on the VA to escalate this timeline. “The heroin and prescription drug crisis in Massachusetts is a true public health emergency that is impacting every community in our Commonwealth. We strongly urge you to escalate the timeline for completing full deployment of this program in Massachusetts,” the lawmakers wrote. The text of the letter is below: Dear Secretary McDonald: Thank you for your dedicated service to our country and your continuing work to care for our veterans. As you may know, the heroin and prescription drug crisis has reached epidemic proportions in Massachusetts and many other states across the country. According to the Massachusetts Department of Public Health, there were more than 1000 opioid-related deaths in the state last year alone. This year, we have already seen a marked increase in deaths from overdosing. The problem is particularly severe in the veteran community, which has a higher rate of prescription drug abuse than the general population. We need to use every tool at our disposal to fight this epidemic that is crippling our communities. Prescription Drug Monitoring Programs (PDMPs) are a critical tool in this fight. Because PDMPs are state-run databases, VA pharmacies and other federal prescribers are not always able to seamlessly share patient information with PDMPs in order to help prevent the accidental or intentional misuse of prescription drugs. It is our understanding that the VA’s State Prescription Drug Monitoring Program deployment, which coordinates VA and federal-prescriber access to PDMPs, is complete in 30 states, and that the VA plans to begin operational testing in Massachusetts in April 2016. The heroin and prescription drug crisis in Massachusetts is a true public health emergency that is impacting every community in our Commonwealth. We strongly urge you to escalate the timeline for completing full deployment of this program in Massachusetts. Thank you for your consideration on this important issue. We look forward to your timely response. Sincerely, Representative Seth Moulton Senator Edward J. Markey Senator Elizabeth Warren Representative Richard E. Neal Representative James P. McGovern Representative Michael E. Capuano Representative Stephen E. Lynch Representative Niki Tsongas Representative William R. Keating Representative Joseph P. Kennedy, III Representative Katherine Clark
10.30.2015	Moulton Calls for Syria Negotiations October 30th, 2015 Washington, DC – Today Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA), member of the House Armed Services Committee, announced his support for a resolution introduced by Congressman Jim Himes (D-CT) calling on President Obama to use multilateral negotiations to bring an end to the Syrian civil war and the tragic refugee crisis it has caused and to develop a comprehensive strategy to defeat the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL). Along with 15 other members of Congress, Rep. Moulton emphasized that there is no military solution to the prolonged Syrian civil war and expressed support for the reconvening of negotiations aimed at ending the fighting and providing for a transition towards a popularly supported, accountable Syrian leadership. In supporting the resolution, Rep. Moulton also highlighted the need to address the needs of refugees fleeing Syria and renewed efforts towards a coordinated international strategy to defeat ISIL. Moulton added, “It is past time members of Congress support a strategy that seeks a political end to the ongoing civil war in Syria and engages all countries involved.” Moulton is closely monitoring the round of talks set to begin on Friday, October 30 in Vienna and will continue engaging with the Departments of Defense and State to support a sound, comprehensive political strategy for the region. Joining Congressmen Himes and Moulton on the resolution are Representatives John Carney, Andre Carson, Yvette Clarke, John Conyers, Keith Ellison, Elizabeth Esty, Marcy Kaptur, Derek Kilmer, Jim McDermott, Bill Pascrell, Mike Quigley, Katherine Rice, Bobby Rush and Jan Schakowsky. The full text of the resolution is below and can be viewed on Congressman Himes’ website. RESOLUTION Expressing the sense of the House of Representatives that the President of the United States should use the full authority of his office to convene international negotiations intended to stop the civil war in Syria. Whereas as of September, 2015, the Syrian civil war has now lasted more than 4 years, resulting in the deaths of more than 300,000 people, creating more than 4,100,000 refugees, and displacing more than 7,600,000 people within the country; Whereas the refugee crisis has been an immense and potentially destabilizing challenge to the Middle East region, and is now affecting Europe and the United States, which have already spent billions in resources in humanitarian assistance; Whereas continued military escalation, including the introduction of military equipment, personnel, and air strikes by Russia, as well as the introduction of the Quds Force of the Iranian Revolutionary Guard, will further the devastation of the Syrian populace, exacerbate the refugee crisis, and risk potentially dangerous unintended encounters between the belligerents; Whereas the current United States strategies to resolve the conflict and defeat the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant in Syria have not been effective; Whereas this includes the military strategy to train, equip, and support Syrian rebels, as well as other efforts to remove President al-Assad and ensure peace and stability in the country; Whereas the United States, the United Nations, and the international community did attempt significant steps to resolve the conflict and transition to a new government in Syria in the Geneva I Conference on Syria on June 30, 2012, and the Geneva II Conference on Syria in January and February of 2014; Whereas President Barack Obama and Secretary of State John Kerry made concerted efforts on September 27, 2015, through September 30, 2015, at the United Nations and with their Russian counterparts, President Putin and Foreign Minister Lavrov, to seek a negotiated solution to the conflict in Syria, which is in the best security and moral interests of the United States; and Whereas Secretary of State John Kerry has followed these diplomatic efforts by participating in the multinational Vienna II talks on the political resolution of the Syrian conflict beginning on October 30, 2015: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the House of Representatives— (1) calls on the President to convene international negotiations intended to stop the civil war in Syria, which can and should include further pursuing the Vienna II effort; (2) requests that these negotiations— (A) stabilize the country and provide for political change towards a popularly supported, accountable Syrian leadership; (B) implement immediate measures to protect, and stem the flow of, refugees from Syria and provide for the return of those who have fled; and (C) create a coordinated international strategy for the defeat of the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant, which is in the best interests of all international parties; and (3) calls on the other nations that have an interest or involvement in the region and conflict to join these negotiations and commit to transitioning from the current al-Assad government and countering the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant.
10.22.2015	Moulton Brings First-of-Its-Kind Veterans Day Event to Massachusetts October 22nd, 2015 Washington, DC – Iraq War veteran and Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) will bring a first-of-its-kind veterans event to Massachusetts on Veterans Day, November 11th. Inspired by acclaimed author and director Sebastian Junger, the event is a community forum aiming to establish greater understanding between local veterans and the friends and neighbors they served. WHO: Congressman Seth Moulton, Sebastian Junger, Professor Andrew Bacevich WHAT: Veterans Day Town Hall WHEN: November 11 | 11.00a – 2.00p WHERE: Abbot Hall, 188 Washington St, Marblehead, MA In a June 2015 Vanity Fair article, Junger highlighted the challenges of post-traumatic stress among veterans. He suggested “making every town and city hall in the country available to veterans who want to speak publicly about the war.” Holding these community forums would “return the experience of war to our entire nation, rather than just leaving it to the people who fought.” The first of these events in the nation will take place in Marblehead, Massachusetts, Moulton’s hometown, on Veterans Day. In the tradition of warrior storytelling, veterans are invited to describe the pride, grief, rage, or quiet appreciation of life that the war bestowed upon them. Each veteran will be given up to 10 minutes to speak about what his or her service means to them through a story, summary of service, message, letter home, excerpt from a war journal, or even the story behind a photograph. Non-veterans are invited to attend, to listen, and to learn. Boston University Professor Andrew Bacevich, a Vietnam and Gulf War veteran, will facilitate the event. Local veterans and non-veterans who would like to attend the event should register by clicking here. Veterans who would like to speak can also email Rep. Moulton’s office at TeamMoultonMA6@gmail.com. The press is invited to attend the event; however, veterans may request that reporters not record their testimony. For more information about Congressman Seth Moulton visit our website or find the Congressman on Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
10.21.2015	Moulton Condemns Recent Violence in Israel October 21st, 2015 Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton’s (D-MA) released the following statement regarding the recent violence in Israel: “Terrorism has no place in modern society, and I am deeply saddened by the escalation of violence that has erupted in Israel over the past several days. Whether you are walking down the street or standing at a bus stop, nobody should have to live in fear of losing his or her life at the hands of extremism. We must all strive for peace between Israelis and Palestinians. Terrorism is the enemy of peace, both in the cities and towns of Israel today and in the negotiations that will lead to a two-state solution tomorrow. “I urge Palestinian President Abbas to confront these attacks with calls for peace rather than further incitement of violence, which only deepens the divide between Israelis and Palestinians. At the same time, the United States and the international community must remain committed to peace and stability in the face of the indiscriminate violence that has plagued this region for far too long.”
10.13.2015	Moulton, Mayor Theken Announce Major Federal Investment to Support New Jobs in Gloucester October 13th, 2015 Gloucester, MA – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) and Gloucester Mayor Sefatia Romeo Theken announced a new federal investment that will expand Gloucester’s seafood processing innovation cluster and create 150 new jobs. The $550,500 grant from the U.S. Economic Development Administration is part of a $1.11 million project to increase water and sewer capacity at the Blackburn Industrial Park. “This investment means one thing for Cape Ann: jobs,” said Moulton. “Economic development means playing to our strengths, improving our infrastructure, and increasing our region’s global competitiveness. This grant helps Gloucester achieve all three of these goals. Congratulations to Mayor Theken and all the stakeholders who worked so hard to make today’s announcement a reality.” “Expanding our commercial and industrial base is critical to our success in Gloucester. I want to thank Congressman Seth Moulton for his work on this EDA Grant which will help the create jobs and provide room for growth in our infrastructure at the industrial park,” said Theken. For more information about Congressman Seth Moulton visit our website or find the Congressman on Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
09.28.2015	Moulton Announces New Effort to Help End Veteran Homelessness September 28th, 2015 Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) announced new federal funding to support low-income veterans in northeast Massachusetts. The U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs awarded a total of $4,157,453 in grants to three Massachusetts organizations dedicated to preventing veteran homelessness, including the Veterans Northeast Outreach Center, the Lynn Housing Authority Development Group, and the Vietnam Veterans Workshop. “It is imperative that we take action to end veteran homelessness and ensure that veterans and their families have access to stable, permanent housing,” said Moulton. “These grants will play a vital role in helping local organizations end veteran homelessness through homeless prevention assistance and housing placement.” The Veterans Northeast Outreach Center in Haverhill, Massachusetts, has rapidly rehoused or provided homeless prevention assistance to more than 1000 veteran families in the past two years with the help of federal funding. Executive Director John Ratka said the grant will have a significant impact on both preventing homelessness and helping veterans transition to permanent housing. “Receiving this award is so very important in assisting homeless veterans and their families from Middlesex and Essex Counties to be placed in permanent housing,” said Ratka. “It has been equally important as a homeless prevention tool, assisting veterans and their families to remain stably housed.” For more information on the VA’s Supportive Services for Veteran Families Program, please visit:http://www.va.gov/homeless/ssvf.asp. For more information about Congressman Seth Moulton visit our website or find the Congressman on Facebook,Twitter, or Instagram.
09.25.2015	Moulton Reacts to Speaker Boehner’s Resignation September 25th, 2015 Washington, DC – Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) released the following statement today in response to Speaker John Boehner’s announcement that he will be resigning from Congress at the end of October: “John Boehner is a good man with humble roots. His story exemplifies the American Dream, and I enjoyed working with him during my short time in Congress. Unfortunately, his Speakership fell victim to some of the worst forces in the Republican Party. I am hopeful that the next leader of the House will be someone who recognizes that what our country needs is strong, collaborative leadership – not partisan politics.”
09.18.2015	Moulton’s Veterans Bill Gains Steam, First Republican Signs On September 18th, 2015 Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton’s (D-MA) first package of bills is gaining steam after he secured the endorsement of a Republican member of the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs. A U.S. Army veteran who still serves in the Army Reserves, Representative Lee Zeldin (R-NY) is supporting Moulton’s VA Education Training and Sustainability Act, a set of four bills that would improve the talent pipeline at Veterans Affairs (VA) medical facilities by recruiting new talent and investing in existing employees. “Veterans deserve the best healthcare available, but instead they face backlogs and inconsistent care,” said Moulton. “It is essential that we make a bipartisan effort to address the systemic problems that prevent veterans from receiving top medical services. Congressman Zeldin is a champion for veterans, and I look forward to working with him to get these bills on the President’s desk.” Congressman Zeldin said, “I’m proud to co-lead The VA Education Training and Sustainability Act with Congressman Moulton. This package of four bills will provide necessary resources to help attract, train and retain the best employees at VA facilities across the country. After selflessly serving our country, our veterans deserve access to the highest quality of care. These four bills are essential to successfully achieving that goal. I would like to thank Congressman Moulton for his strong leadership on this issue and for his service to our country in the United States military.” Moulton and Zeldin both served in Iraq and have made veterans’ care a top priority. The bipartisan package of legislation aims to improve care by offering incentives in order to attract and retain the best talent at the VA. For more information on the legislation, click here. For more information about Congressman Seth Moulton visit our website or find the Congressman on Facebook,Twitter, or Instagram.
09.14.2015	Five Local Organizations Receive $725,000 to Combat Substance Abuse by Young People September 14th, 2015 Peabody, MA – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) announced new federal funding to prevent and reduce substance abuse among young people in northeast Massachusetts. In total, the Office of National Drug Control Policy released $725,000 in Drug Free Communities funding to five local, community-based organizations, including the Healthy Peabody Collaborative, the Healthy Gloucester Collaborative, the Reading Coalition Against Substance Abuse, DanversCares, and the Wakefield Unified Prevention Coalition. “We cannot let alcohol and drugs snuff out the bright futures of young people in Massachusetts,” said Moulton. “From Reading to Gloucester, these investments will help our local leaders continue their efforts to prevent substance use by young people and help the next generation lead happier, healthier and more productive lives. Congratulations to each of the organizations for securing these competitive grants.” Sara Grinnell, the Executive Director of the Healthy Peabody Collaborative highlighted the important role prevention plays in combatting substance use by young people: “We are not powerless against the challenge of drug use among young people in Peabody. Research shows that prevention is the most effective tool we have to reduce the terrible consequences associated with drug use among young people. This funding will allow the Healthy Peabody Collaborative to continue to support the development of stronger, healthier youth and to adapt social norms to promote healthy decision making while encouraging the involvement of all sectors of the community.” DanversCARES has seen a significant drop in alcohol use, high-risk drinking, and tobacco use among high-school students as a result of Drug Free Community funding. “These are important long-term outcomes attributed to the vibrant and caring community partnerships that Drug Free Communities funding allows us to maintain,” said Peg Sallade, Project Director of DanversCARES. “These outcomes are a collective effort of many Danvers organizations contributing to healthy policies, programs, and activities for youth.” Erica McNamara, Director of the Reading Coalition Against Substance Abuse (RCASA), called the Drug Free Communities program a “transformative experience for our community.” With the help of the federal funding, RCASA launched the first local prescription drug collection program in Reading and helped pass sweeping town liquor polices. According to the Reading Youth Risk Behavior Survey, Reading has seen percentage declines in underage drinking, tobacco use, and related behaviors. McNamara said RCASA would use this year’s funding to continue combating underage drinking and opioid abuse prevention. The Wakefield Unified Prevention Coalition has used Drug Free Communities funding since 2013 to implement evidence-based strategies to reduce alcohol, tobacco and other drug use among Wakefield residents, especially youth. Coalition Director Catherine Dhingra said the Coalition will soon expand access to mental health services for young people in Wakefield. “Our data demonstrated many youth were suffering from anxiety, depression, and suicidal thoughts but were not being seen by a school counselor or a clinician. We have worked hard to improve the school’s capacity to serve our youth’s mental health needs and bring in outside resources. A significant amount of youth who develop substance use disorders have co-existing mental health conditions,” stated Coalition Director Catherine Dhingra. For more information about Congressman Seth Moulton visit our website or find the Congressman on Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
09.11.2015	Moulton Statement on the 14th Anniversary of the 9/11 Attacks September 11th, 2015 Washington, DC – Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) released the following statement on the 14th anniversary of the September 11th terrorist attacks: “Today is a day to remember and to serve. “On this 14th anniversary, we remember the victims of the 9/11 terrorist attacks and their families. We remember the courage and bravery of the first responders who ran toward the towers. We remember the responses of everyday Americans who came to New York to help in whatever way possible, who lined up at blood banks and military recruiting stations, and who took a silent moment to pray for the fallen. “And, we also honor this anniversary by reaffirming our commitment to serving our country. On this National Day of Service, we are reminded of the power of serving our country through the military, Peace Corps, AmeriCorps or other volunteer opportunities. Service strengthens our nation and grows a more robust bond of citizenship. “Today and every day, let us honor our fallen citizens and our country by serving our fellow Americans.” For more information about Congressman Seth Moulton visit our website or find the Congressman on Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
09.10.2015	Moulton Helps Lead New Effort On LGBT Equality September 10th, 2015 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) announced his support for the Equality Act, new legislation to ban discrimination against LGBT individuals in public accommodations, housing, employment, and other areas of public life. Moulton, a long-time champion of LGBT rights, joined more than 140 Members of the U.S. House of Representatives in cosponsoring the legislation. “No one should ever be discriminated against because of whom they love. That’s not who we are as Americans,” said Moulton. “Every American deserves the same basic protections under the law. The Equality Act will help ensure the LGBT community is protected, just like everyone else.” The Equality Act will amend the Civil Rights Act of 1964 to make it illegal to discriminate against someone based on their sexual orientation or gender identity. The legislation would apply to public accommodations, federal funding, education, employment, housing, credit, and jury service.
08.10.2015	Moulton Announces “Congress on Your Corner” Tour of the Sixth Congressional District August 10th, 2015 Peabody, MA – Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) today announced the “Congress on Your Corner” tour, a series of five public events throughout Massachusetts’ Sixth District during the month of August. The tour is part of Moulton’s effort to increase access to the constituent services his office provides. During the events, residents of the Sixth District will have the opportunity to speak directly with Moulton, ask questions, and share their views. Congressman Moulton’s staff will also be available to help solve problems for constituents at federal agencies. Members of the media are invited to attend and publicize the events. Tuesday, August 18th 4:45pm-5:45pm Reading Town Hall 16 Lowell St Reading, MA 01867 RSVP: http://bit.ly/1SZLeXY Wednesday, August 19th 10:30am-11:30am Grater Lynn Senior Services (GLSS) 8 Silsbee St Lynn, MA 01901 RSVP: http://bit.ly/1KUAtz9 Wednesday, August 19th 12:00pm-1:00pm Harbor Café 125 Liberty St Danvers, MA 01923 RSVP: http://bit.ly/1IN8bT6 Monday, August 24th 4:45pm-5:45pm Rockport Library 17 School St Rockport, MA 01966 RSVP: http://bit.ly/1gPzZAy Wednesday, August 26th 4:45pm-5:45pm The Spot 19 W Main St Georgetown, MA 01833 RSVP: http://bit.ly/1eXCbnP ###
08.04.2015	Moulton, Massachusetts Lawmakers Fight to Protect Lobster Industry August 4th, 2015 Peabody, MA – Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) announced today he sent a letter to federal regulators expressing concerns with a proposed expansion of the Northeast Fishery Observer Program to cover the Massachusetts lobster industry. Senators Elizabeth Warren and Ed Markey and Congressmen William Keating and Stephen F. Lynch joined Moulton on the letter to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. In the letter, the legislators called the proposed expansion “duplicative and unnecessary” and called on the agency to provide additional clarity on the impact to the lobster industry: “[T]he agency needs a comprehensive plan to address the concerns raised by the Massachusetts lobstermen, whose industry is directly impacted by expansion of the [Northeast Fishery Observer Program]. We request that you provide clarity to our constituents on the questions they have raised relating to the cost, duration, and responsibility for the safety of observers onboard vessels.” Beth Casoni, Executive Director of the Massachusetts Lobstermen’s Association, praised the lawmakers’ effort: “The Massachusetts Lobstermen’s Association is extremely concerned about the Northeast Fishery Observer Program’s lack of collaboration to eliminate the redundancy in effort and expenditure on the collection of data sets between state and federal agencies. We are hopeful to resolve this issue without any further undue stressors being implemented on the commercial lobster fishermen. Commercial lobster fishermen already work within confined spaces and having another person on the vessel would be unsafe to themselves and the observer. I would like to thank Congressmen Seth Moulton, William Keating and Stephen Lynch along with Senators Elizabeth Warren and Ed Markey for their continued support of the commercial lobster industry here in the Commonwealth.” “The current state of our groundfish industry shows what can happen when federal agencies implement new policies without sound science and without considering the consequences,” said Moulton. “The hardworking lobstermen of the Commonwealth have worked closely with state regulators to preserve and maintain a sustainable lobster fishery. NOAA’s efforts to expand the observer program are duplicative of those already in place at the state level and raise serious concerns that must be addressed. I look forward to working with all stakeholders on this issue to make sure our lobster industry continues to thrive.” The full letter can be viewed as a PDF below : Congressman Moulton Letter to NOAA For more information about Congressman Seth Moulton visit our website or find the Congressman on Facebook or Twitter.
08.01.2015	Moulton Announces Support for the Nuclear Agreement With Iran August 1st, 2015 Salem, MA – Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) released the following statement announcing his support for the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action to prevent Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon: “As a combat veteran who has seen fellow Americans killed in Iraq by the weapons and influence of the Iranian regime, I understand firsthand the threat Iran poses to America and our allies. The United States and the international community must prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon. “After carefully reviewing the details of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, listening to my constituents including leaders in the Jewish community, and consulting with a wide variety of military and civilian experts, I have determined that the best course of action to prevent a nuclear Iran is by supporting and implementing the agreement. It is not a perfect deal, and it is easy to point out the many ways in which it could theoretically be stronger. That being said, it is by far the best viable option before us. “First, I believe the deal is sufficiently verifiable and enforceable. This is not about trust. Iran already has the knowledge to refine uranium and build a nuclear weapon. Therefore, limitations on Iran’s nuclear infrastructure are less important than how quickly and effectively we can catch Iran should its leaders decide to build a bomb. After attending both classified and unclassified briefings, I believe the inspections regime—while far from perfect—is comprehensive enough to be effective. Inspections will also give us greater intelligence on Iran than we have today. “Second, the deal puts us in a stronger position both today and in the future than the alternatives, of which there are essentially two: taking military action or attempting to increase sanctions in the hope of negotiating a better deal some time in the future. “Taking military action against Iran would only set Iran’s nuclear program back five years at most, reaffirm their pursuit of a nuclear weapon, and drive the program underground. “Maintaining or increasing sanctions on Iran will only work if the sanctions coalition holds together. It is clear from a variety of sources that at least Russia, China, and India are unlikely to maintain sanctions if Congress rejects the deal. Getting a better deal requires more leverage not less, and the only way for the U.S. to unilaterally increase sanctions would be for us to sanction our allies when they try to do business with Iran, which is impractical at best. In the meantime, while we attempt to establish a new sanctions regime, Iran will have a far shorter breakout time than they would have under the agreement. “Both alternatives, military action and sanctions, leave us worse off than we are under the terms of the deal. “Even in a worst case scenario where the regime cheats and continues to pursue a nuclear weapon, the United States and our allies will be in a stronger position to take further action under the auspices of the agreement–both because of the credibility it gives us, internationally and domestically, and the better intelligence inspections will provide. “Whether you believe the Administration could have negotiated a stronger deal is largely irrelevant at this point. We must make a choice based on the options before us. Moving forward, there are two critical things the United States must do: “First, we should reaffirm, to our allies and adversaries alike, that the Iranian regime remains an enemy of the United States of America and our allies, especially Israel. Iran is a state sponsor of international terrorism, holds American hostages, and commits deplorable violations of basic human rights on a daily basis. It would have been a poor negotiating strategy to include any provisions on these issues in the nuclear deal as they would have necessarily watered down the nuclear limits. But we must now keep up the pressure on all these issues, which the United States can do under the deal. “Second, we must reaffirm our commitment to our allies in the Middle East, and we must work to repair the relationships that have been frayed by this negotiation. Along with many of my Congressional colleagues, I am traveling to Israel this week and meeting with Prime Minister Netanyahu and other Israeli officials. I look forward to discussing how we can repair and advance our historic alliance and ensure that our commitment to Israel is as strong and non-partisan in the future as it has been in the past. “No deal is perfect, especially one negotiated among adversaries, but we must always act in our national interest and consider the facts as they exist today. This Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action is the best option available in an ongoing confrontation with a great threat to world peace. For these reasons, I will support the deal when it comes for a vote in Congress and encourage my colleagues to do the same.” For more information on Congressman Moulton’s support for the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, please click here. For more information about Congressman Seth Moulton visit our website or find the Congressman on Facebook or Twitter.
07.27.2015	Saugus Fire Department Awarded $144,000 FEMA Grant July 27th, 2015 Peabody, MA – Today, surrounded by Saugus firefighters, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA), Fire Chief Don McQuaid, and Town Manager Scott Crabtree announced a $144,728 grant from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) for a critical breathing apparatus that will better protect department workers. “These firefighters put their lives on the line for Saugus residents every day,” said Moulton. “We need to ensure they have the best equipment possible both to protect themselves and help people in need. I am grateful to the brave firefighters for their commitment to this community and to FEMA for its investment in Saugus.” “Breathing devices are a critical part of a firefighter’s safety equipment. We are thrilled to receive funds that will allow us to replace outdated equipment so that we may increase firefighter safety and continue to protect our residents during emergency situations,” said Chief McQuaid. “I am pleased that these federal funds will allow us to provide essential upgrades for the Saugus Fire Department and enhance the safety of our community. This is a great opportunity without affecting the Town’s budget or local taxes. I want to thank Congressman Moulton for his commitment to Saugus, and I will continue to work with the Congressman to ensure that our fire department has the support and resources it needs for the safety of our firefighters and our residents,” said Town Manager Scott Crabtree. For more information about Congressman Seth Moulton visit our website at https://moulton.house.gov/ or find the Congressman on Facebook, or Twitter.
07.22.2015	Takai, Moulton Demand Action to Avert SBA Shutdown July 22nd, 2015 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Mark Takai (HI-01) and Congressman Seth Moulton (MA-06) released the following statements after sending a letter to Speaker of the House John Boehner (OH-08) asking that Congress bring legislation to the floor to raise the Small Business Administration (SBA) 7(a) loan volume before Congress goes into the August work period: “As our economy continues to recover, ensuring that our nation’s small businesses have access to capital should be one of the highest financial priorities of Congress,” said Takai. “If Congress doesn’t act soon, the ability of our small business community to grow and thrive will be severely limited. My colleagues and I strongly urge Speaker Boehner to support one of the main drivers of our economy and to bring legislation to the floor to raise the SBA lending cap.” “Our nation’s small businesses need reliable access to capital to innovate, create new products, and grow our economy,” said Moulton. “Right now, Congressional dysfunction is threatening to shut down the SBA’s most popular lending program. That’s irresponsible. The House should pass a bill to raise the lending cap immediately so our small business owners can do what they do best: create jobs.” If immediate action is not taken, the SBA will reach the $18.75 billion legal lending cap on the 7(a) program by early August. Lenders use the 7(a) program to fund working capital and other critical needs to small businesses, and the SBA provides a backstop by guaranteeing this loan in case the borrower defaults. SBA programs like 7(a) have seen an increase in usage by small businesses, making it imperative that the lending limit be increased for this program. The Ranking Member of the House Committee on Small Business Nydia Velazquez (NY-07) has introduced legislation that will increase the cap by $5 billion. A list of members who joined with Takai and Moulton on the letter are listed below: Congresswoman Nydia Velazquez (NY-07) Congresswoman Janice Hahn (CA-44) Congresswoman Judy Chu (CA-32) Congresswoman Grace Meng (NY-06) Congresswoman Yvette D. Clarke (NY-09) Congresswoman Donna F. Edwards (MD-04) Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) Congressman Xavier Becerra (CA-34) Congressman Mark Takano (CA-41) Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16) Congressman Sam Farr (CA-20) Congresswoman Norma Torres (CA-35) Congressman Ed Perlmutter (CO-07) Congresswoman Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05) Congresswoman Ann Kirkpatrick (AZ-01) Congresswoman Tulsi Gabbard (HI-02) Congressman Mike Quigley (IL-05) Congressman Mike Honda (CA-17) For more information about Congressman Seth Moulton visit our website or find the Congressman on Facebook orTwitter
07.16.2015	U.S. Department of Education Awards More Than $2 Million to Two Area Universities July 16th, 2015 Washington, D.C. – Today, the Department of Education announced that it has awarded Salem State University and North Shore Community College (NSCC) with grants totaling $2.25 million and nearly $2.4 million respectively over five years. Through a grant competition, funds were awarded to institutions of higher education to provide opportunities for academic development, assist students with basic college requirements, and to motivate students toward the successful completion of their postsecondary education. “The Sixth District is fortunate to have such high-quality and committed educational institutions as Salem State University and North Shore Community College,” said Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA). “These funds will go a long way to ensure more of our young people are not only getting to college, but graduating from it. I commend both Salem State and North Shore Community College for their commitment to providing the support and services students need to excel in school and graduate with the skills necessary to join today’s workforce. I look forward to partnering with them to continue these excellent efforts.” Beginning in Fiscal Year 2016 (October 1, 2015), Salem State University will be awarded $450,518 each year for five consecutive years, a total grant of $2,252,590. The grant will fund a Student Support Services program to serve 325 students annually who are low-income, first generation and individuals with disabilities and who are in need of academic services to persist to graduation. “These funds will allow the university to provide critical support for a group of students who might not be able to graduate and pursue their dreams without these additional services,” said Salem State University President Patricia Maguire Meservey. “We appreciate Congressman Moulton’s assistance in acquiring these grants.” “North Shore Community College has a long history with TRIO and we are delighted that this new grant will allow us to continue to help individuals discover their potential, gain access to higher education and be successful,” said NSCC President Patricia A. Gentile. “We continually see the difference TRIO makes in the lives of our students and have so many tremendous examples to share. For instance, this year our student Commencement Speaker, our Distinguished Alumni award recipient, and the grad who sang a awe inspiring version of the National Anthem were all TRIO grads. We are grateful that this award will enable us to work with even more success stories in the making.” For more information about Congressman Seth Moulton visit our website or find the Congressman on Facebook or Twitter. ###
07.13.2015	Congressman Moulton’s First Bill Passes House of Representatives July 13th, 2015 Washington, D.C. – Last month, the House Committee on Small Business unanimously passed legislation authored by Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) to increase access to capital for startups and small businesses by modernizing the Small Business Administration’s (SBA) Microloan Program. The bill, the Microloan Modernization Act, was brought to the House Floor today where it passed with unanimous support. This is Congressman Moulton’s first piece of legislation to pass the House of Representatives. “Small businesses are the backbone of our nation’s economy, so I am proud that my first bill benefits entrepreneurs,” said Moulton. “Too often our small business leaders, and especially aspiring entrepreneurs, either try to self–finance new business ventures on personal credit cards or don’t take the risk at all given the fear of failure. We need to give these business leaders the tools and resources they need to start new business and grow existing ones. Expanding access to capital is a critical part of ensuring our small businesses have the opportunity to thrive.” The Microloan Modernization Act aims to increase loans available to small businesses and provide greater flexibility for borrowers. According to a report by the House Small Business Committee, last year, the SBA Microloan Program supported nearly 16,000 jobs. Further, the SBA has said that that participating lenders supported more than 3,900 small businesses in 2014 with $55.5 million in microloans. Here in the Sixth District, numerous small businesses have benefited from the program including Prism Producs and Rite Spice Caribbean. Prism Products, an industrial lubricant distributor, last year received a microlending loan from the Economic Development & Industrial Corporation to purchase extra inventory, which in turn is helping to bring in twice times the revenue and support daily operations. Owner Lisa Fitzpatrick was then able to hire a sales professional with 15 years of experience. “It’s hard for a small business to operate with very little cash flow,” said Fitzpatrick. “The loan ultimately made it easier for me to hire more help and give my employees more hours. It’s been a tremendous help.” Similarly, local restauranteurs Shawn and Noyan Edmond in 2013 fulfilled their life-long dream of opening up a restaurant, Rite Spice Caribbean, in Lynn. It was made possible by a microlending loan, enabling the Edmonds to purchase new kitchen equipment and make renovations to the space. “We were so fortunate to have found the space and benefitted from this opportunity,” said Noyan. The Microloan Modernization Act expands access to capital and offers greater flexibility to borrowers. Specifically the bill: Creates a waiver for the “25/75 rule,” an outdated formula that prevents microloan intermediaries like the Merrimack Valley Small Business Center from adequately addressing the needs of each borrower; Increases the aggregate loan limit cap to $6 million to better serve small business borrowers in high-demand areas; Extends the repayment period to 10 years for loans greater than $10,000; Authorizes the SBA to extend lines of credit for small businesses. For more information about Congressman Seth Moulton visit our website or find the Congressman on Facebook or Twitter. ###
07.10.2015	Congressman Seth Moulton Announces Wounded Warrior Fellowship July 10th, 2015 Peabody, MA – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) announced that he will begin accepting applications for a new fellowship specifically for eligible disabled veterans. The position is being sponsored by the Wounded Warrior Program, which was established to create opportunities within the House of Representatives for our nation’s veterans. The fellow will be based in the Congressman’s District office and will be responsible for helping veterans from Massachusetts’ 6th Congressional District get the support they need. “Serving our community’s veterans is a top priority of mine,” said Moulton. “The Wounded Warrior Program gives our veterans valuable assistance in their transition from military to civilian life, while also enabling them to continue serving our country. I am thrilled to hire a Wounded Warrior Fellow for my office and look forward to expanding our veterans service operation. After all, there is no better advocate for a veteran, than another veteran.” The position available in Congressman Moulton’s District office is for a caseworker, who would be responsible for facilitating and coordinating responses to a wide range of requests received from constituents. District caseworkers also help constituents interact with administrative and government agencies by acting as facilitators, ombudsmen and, in some cases, advocates. Applicants must have served on active duty since September 11, 2001, have a 30-percent or greater service-connected disability rating and less than 20 years of service. In addition to a current resume, applicants must submit a copy of their DD214 and a VA letter confirming that they have at least a 30 percent service-connected disability rating. Additional information about the program and application process can be found here. For more information about Congressman Seth Moulton visit our website or find the Congressman on Facebook orTwitter. ###
07.08.2015	Congressman Moulton Co-Authors Free Community College Bill July 8th, 2015 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) joined Congressman Bobby Scott (D-VA), the top Democrat on the Committee on Education and Workforce, and other congressional leaders at a press conference to announce the America’s College Promise Act of 2015. The bill, if enacted, would make two years of community college free and provide an affordable pathway for low-income students to a four-year college degree. “I’m proud to be a co-author of America’s College Promise Act,” said Congressman Moulton. “A highly educated workforce will be necessary for our nation to compete in the global economy. Today, cost and access are preventing too many Americans who want a higher education from obtaining one. We can, and must, do better for the next generation. It is time for our country to make college more affordable and accessible for all. This bill is an important step in that direction.” The America’s College Promise Act of 2015 stands to impact more than 9 million students at 1,300 community colleges and nearly 300,000 students stand to benefit each year, including the nearly 7,500 students at North Shore Community College’s campuses in Lynn, Danvers, Beverly and Middleton. “Free community college will remove the final barrier for the lowest income students without impacting Pell Grants,” said Dr. Patricia A. Gentile, President of North Shore Community College. “This initiative can extend education and skills certifications to new potential workforce members which will contribute to the growth of the Commonwealth. We look forward to working with the Congressman on the passage of this initiative.” America’s College Promise is built on the premise that students should have the opportunity to access quality and affordable higher education that gives them the skills and knowledge they need to succeed in the 21st century economy. Under America’s College Promise, students will gain: Access and Affordability Provides a federal match of $3 for every $1 invested by the state to waive community college tuition and fees for eligible students before other financial aid is applied. Helps cover a significant portion of tuition and fees— for either their first two years or last two years of college—for low-income students who choose to attend qualifying HBCUs, HSIs, AANAPISIs and other MSIs. Allows students to continue to take advantage of other state and federal financial to free up funds assist with other costs of attendance at school, such as books, room and board, and more. Quality Requires states to make tailored, evidence-based reforms of their public higher education systems that focus on improving completion and other student outcomes, such as mentoring for first-generation and minority students, dual or concurrent enrollment programs, and more. HBCUs, HSIs, AANAPISIs and other MSIs will also be required to take on evidence-based reforms to participate in the program. Pathways Ensures that community colleges offer academic programs that are fully transferable to four-year institutions in their state, or occupational training that leads to credentials in an in-demand industry. Provides federal funds to create a pathway to a four-year degree at any qualifying HBCUs, HSIs, AANAPISIs and other MSIs for low-income students transferring from a community college. For more information about Congressman Seth Moulton visit our website at https://moulton.house.gov/ or find the Congressman on Facebook, or Twitter. ###
07.01.2015	Department of Transportation Awards the City of Beverly With a $700,000 Grant For Infrastructure Improvements at Beverly Municipal Airport July 1st, 2015 The Department of Transportation (DOT) announced that it will award the City of Beverly with a $714,600 grant for critical infrastructure improvements at the Beverly Municipal Airport. Massachusetts Senators Elizabeth Warren and Edward J. Markey, along with Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) and Beverly Mayor Michael Cahill lauded the Department for investing in the local airport. “This grant will help fund improvements so that the Beverly Municipal Airport can continue to drive business activity in the area,” Senator Warren said. “This funding is a great example of how the federal government can be a good partner for communities in Massachusetts. Mayor Cahill and the Airport Commission deserve a lot of credit for their work.” “This investment in improvements to the Beverly Municipal Airport will help the entire North Shore economy take off and support business activity in the region,” said Senator Markey. “I applaud Mayor Cahill, Senator Warren and Rep. Moulton for their efforts in securing this critical infrastructure funding.” “The Beverly Municipal Airport is an important economic driver for the North Shore region,” said Congressman Moulton. “This grant will ensure that the airport meets current FAA standards through much-needed runway improvements. I am grateful to the Department of Transportation for this key investment and to the City of Beverly for working with both my and Senators Warren and Markey’s offices to ensure that pilots can safely and efficiently use this airport in the future.” “Beverly Municipal Airport is an incredible asset to Beverly and the region,” said Mayor of Beverly Michael P. Cahill. “These improvements, along with a new administration building which broke ground earlier this month, will provide the needed infrastructure to help the airport thrive for years to come. Thank you to the Airport Commission for their hard work in obtaining this grant and the Department of Transportation for awarding these necessary funds as well as Senators Warren and Markey, and Congressman Moulton for their help in stewarding the request.” The DOT grant enables the Beverly Municipal Airport to make a number of important infrastructure upgrades, including: Installing a new taxiway lighting system on Taxiway B and replace taxiway reflectors on Taxiway D in order to enhance safe airfield operations during low visibility conditions. Installing a precision approach path indicators (PAPIs) for both the Runway 9 and 27 approaches. The new runway visual guidance system will make the airport more accessible to pilots by providing improved approaches to the runway ends. Replacing approximately 23 airfield guidance signs to meet Federal Aviation Administration design standards and to enhance situational awareness for pilots operating on the airfield. The existing signs have reached the end of their useful lives. For more information about Congressman Seth Moulton visit our website at https://moulton.house.gov/ or find the Congressman on Facebook or Twitter. ###
06.26.2015	Video Message From Congressman Seth Moulton on the Supreme Court’s Marriage Equality Ruling June 26th, 2015 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) went to the steps of the United States Supreme Court to hear the court’s ruling on marriage equality. Following the announcement, Moulton recorded a video statement, which can be viewed here, and is transcribed below: “It’s an honor to be here in front of the Supreme Court on this incredibly historic day. Reverend Martin Luther King said that ‘the arc of the moral universe is long, but it bends towards justice.’ Today we are seeing that in action; we are witnessing history change. I’m especially proud to be here as a Representative of Massachusetts, a state that has truly led the fight for equality. “This decision means a lot to me and my family as my brother is gay, it means a lot to our entire community, and it means a lot to everyone throughout the United States of America who has yearned for freedom and has been denied it until today.” For more information about Congressman Seth Moulton visit our website at https://moulton.house.gov/ or find the Congressman on Facebook or Twitter. ###
06.26.2015	Massachusetts Members Commend Recommended Saltonstall-Kennedy Grant Awards for Commonwealth June 26th, 2015 Washington, DC – Today, NOAA recommended over $25 million in funding to be awarded to 88 projects under the FY14-15 Saltonstall-Kennedy Grants Program. Of that amount, the greater Atlantic region would receive over $8.8 million. Massachusetts would receive approximately $3 million from the greater Atlantic portion. These funds go toward increased research and development for the fishing industry. “Better science and research improves fisheries management and helps our fishing industry modernize for the long term,” Senator Warren said. “It’s great that NOAA has recommended funding for several projects in Massachusetts that would benefit our local fishing communities.” “This new NOAA funding gives Massachusetts’s fishing industry the opportunity to expand its understanding of ocean ecosystems and enhance the resilience of local fisheries and the seaside communities they support,” said Sen. Edward J. Markey, a member of the Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee. “The recent groundfish fishery disaster has had a devastating economic impact on the fishing industry and the businesses that depend on it – causing economic harm to our fishermen and our fishing communities. These funds will drive new research that will help us respond to the groundfish fishery disaster today and develop a sustainable fishery for the future.” “In recent years, Gloucester’s fishing industry has been devastated by the New England ground fish disaster,” said Rep. Seth Moulton. “The funding awarded to the Cape Ann Seafood Exchange (CASE) will not only allow for critical repairs and upgrades to the facility, but will also enhance the City’s efforts to stabilize and rebuild the harvesting, processing and marketing sectors of the region’s fishing industry. I am grateful to NOAA for supporting this important initiative that benefits the fishermen, the environment, and our local economy.” “It is my belief that this grant program is one of the strongest tools in NOAA’s arsenal,” said Rep. Bill Keating, who represents the Port of New Bedford, the highest grossing commercial fishing port in the Northeast, as well as Chatham and Provincetown on Cape Cod. “We know that the way to fix the problems plaguing our nation’s fisheries is through better science. And better science leads to better management. To this end, I was proud to reintroduce legislation this year that would ensure fishermen are directly involved in utilizing Saltonstall-Kennedy funding to promote research and development that will impact their livelihoods.” “This is good news on two fronts,” said Rep. Stephen Lynch. “NOAA’s investment in better technology will help Massachusetts’ fishermen, and the New England Aquarium will be able to continue its work on bycatch and promoting sustainable fisheries. That is much appreciated.” Among the Massachusetts projects recommended for funding are: Two Coonamessett Farm Foundation, Inc. projects seeking to improve ecosystem-friendly scallop dredges and research offshore essential fish habitat of Southern New England winter flounder; Four University of Massachusetts Dartmouth projects that will improve the cost-effectiveness and capacity for observations and maximize fishing opportunities and jobs; Multiple awards for the New England Aquarium; Substantial funding for the Center for Coastal Studies to reduce bycatch in the sea scallop fishery; and Substantial funding for the Cape Ann Seafood Exchange to support infrastructure and innovation. ###
06.18.2015	Congressman Moulton Upholds Promise, Votes to Repeal The Medical Device Tax June 18th, 2015 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) upheld a promise to constituents by voting to repeal the medical device tax, which places a 2.3-percent excise tax on medical device companies. Moulton announced his support for the legislation in April at an event at Abiomed in Danvers and was proud to join 46 Democrats and 234 Republicans to repeal the tax he’s long called “a burden on small businesses.” “I started a health care company following business school. I understand how to help small businesses grow, and I also understand the incredible need for and value of investing in medical technology,” said Moulton. “The medical device tax poses an unnecessary burden on the industry, but especially small businesses, and repealing it is simply the right thing to do.” In light of our nation’s growing national debt, Moulton also made clear he believes “we must responsibly pay for the repeal of the tax,” which is estimated to cost $24 billion over ten years. Massachusetts is home to more than 400 medical device companies, employing nearly 23,000 workers and generating another 75,000 jobs in related sectors. On a per capita basis, Massachusetts is second to California in the amount of venture capital secured by MedTech start-up companies and FDA-approval of innovative medical products. The industry also accounts for 14-percent of all goods exported from the Commonwealth, making it the state’s number one export. For more information about Congressman Seth Moulton visit our website at https://moulton.house.gov/ or find the Congressman on Facebook or Twitter. ###
06.18.2015	Rep. Moulton to Vote Against H. Con. Res. 55 June 18th, 2015 Washington, DC – Yesterday, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) voted against H. Con. Res 55, a resolution calling for the withdrawal of U.S. troops deployed to Iraq or Syria within 30 days. Moulton, an Iraq War veteran, released the following statement: “Going into Iraq in 2003 was a mistake.Mis-managing our withdrawal after the Surge, by not leaving in place the political advisors necessary to keep the Iraqi government on track, has made matters worse. Now, ISIS has grown into the vacuum left by a failed Iraqi government. “ISIS presents a national security threat to the United States. We need a serious, long-term political and diplomatic strategy to ensure we defeat ISIS and prevent another terrorist organization from growing in its place. That is the only enduring solution. “H. Con. Res. 55 simply pulls troops out on a very short timeline, which will neither defeat ISIS nor force a debate in Congress on the Authorization to Use Military Force—a debate we need to have. “Our servicemen and women deserve a strategy for the Middle East that will ensure their efforts are not in vain. Simply pulling them out, or putting a few more in, does not achieve this.” ###
06.16.2015	Congressman Moulton is First to Pass Legislative Action Holding Office of Personnel Management Accountable for Massive Cyber Attack June 16th, 2015 Washington, D.C. – This week, Congressman Seth Moulton (MA-06) became the first member of either the U.S. House of Representatives or the U.S. Senate to pass legislative action to address the massive hacking of data from the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) about millions of federal employees, including many who work in sensitive national security positions. The Moulton amendment to the Intelligence Authorization Act requires the administration to assess how foreign intelligence agencies may use any stolen information from background security clearance checks of defense and intelligence personnel. It also requires the Director of National Intelligence to brief Congressional intelligence committees on impacts of the breach on intelligence personnel and operations, including proposals to respond to cyber attacks. The text of the amendment can be found here and his comments are below. Congressman Moulton’s Remarks on the Floor of the House of Representatives, June 16, 2015: Mr. Chairman, recently the Office of Personnel Management disclosed a massive security breach that may have exposed personal information of millions of current and former federal employees, including those who work in sensitive national security positions. Simply put, this cyber breach is unacceptable and breaks faith with those dedicated military and civilian personnel who commit their lives to keeping our country safe. Although responsibility has not yet been officially confirmed, many observers believe that individuals in China — who may have been acting on orders of the Chinese government — were responsible for hacking into OPM databases. Two things are clear, Mr. Chairman: First, we must ensure this does not happen again. We must protect our federal employees — our foreign service officers, State Department staff, members of the intelligence community, and many others. Second, we must make clear to the rest of the world that these attacks will not be tolerated. And that that there will be consequences. That is why my amendment takes the first of many critical steps to respond to this breach: My amendment starts the process of holding OPM accountable, It makes sure we leverage the best data security practices that our intelligence agencies use to protect sensitive personal information about our military and civilian personnel who work day in and day out to keep our country safe, And finally, my amendment ensures that the United States Congress can play a constructive role in developing a meaningful, forceful response to cyber attacks — especially attacks aimed at our nation¹s security. We must stop these attacks and protect those who commit their lives to our safety. This amendment is an important first step in doing just that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I reserve the balance of my time. ###
06.12.2015	Congressman Moulton to Vote No on Fast Track June 12th, 2015 Washington, D.C. – Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) today announced that he will vote against Trade Promotion Authority (TPA), also known as “fast track,” when it comes to the floor of the House of Representatives later today. In January, he wrote a letter to President Obama and Ambassador Froman noting that he would not support TPA if it failed to include “sufficient input of our constituents’ concerns about labor, environmental, and human rights protections.” Congressman Moulton released the below statement on his opposition to fast track: “I made a commitment to Massachusetts families that every vote I take will be based on the facts. My approach to giving fast track authority to the President has been no different. I have held dozens of meetings with my constituents and spoken to countless people on both sides of this debate. I weighed the arguments and waited to make an informed decision until the final text of the bill was available. In fact, even in the last few days, the bills we are voting on as part of this authority have changed several times. “As proposed, fast track does not do enough to ensure future trade agreements require sufficient and enforceable labor and environmental protections. This authority is also quite long in duration and not specific to any of the trade agreements currently under negotiation; it could be used by our next president, whether a Democrat or Republican, regardless of whether he or she shares our concerns. “I continue to believe that international trade is good for the American economy and Massachusetts workers when it is fair. Simply put, given a level playing field, the American worker can compete and win against any worker in the world. “The Trans-Pacific Partnership has the potential to open new markets for American-made goods, grow our economy in Massachusetts, and raise labor and environmental standards for workers. While the opponents of the trade agreement have been loud and clear, the supporters are numerous as well and see the potential of new jobs as exports increase to previously closed markets and other nations meet the higher environmental and labor standards of America. That’s why it is so critical that a final trade agreement guarantees these high standards and ensures they are enforceable. “I am going to continue working to make sure the President signs the strongest trade agreement possible, and when it comes time to vote on the Trans-Pacific Partnership, I will make a decision based on the details of the final agreement, always supporting the interests of the American worker and the United States of America. “Finally, beyond the Trans-Pacific Partnership, we must continue fighting to close the opportunity gap in America and restore a strong middle class by preserving and creating good-paying jobs, improving our infrastructure, and investing in education. These are core American values and affect the backbone of our economy, our middle class.” For more information about Congressman Seth Moulton visit our website at https://moulton.house.gov/ or find the Congressman on Facebook or Twitter. ###
06.11.2015	Congressman Seth Moulton Offers Motion to Recommit to Protect Our Troops June 11th, 2015 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) offered a Motion to Recommit to the Department of Defense Appropriations Act which would provide additional funding to protect our troops, help them with reintegration process and ensure they have cutting edge medical techniques to save injured troops on the battlefield. Moulton delivered the following remarks on the floor of the House of Representatives: “Mr. Speaker, this amendment is simple. “First, it will add $2 million for the Army Threat Integration Center to protect our troops and their families from terrorist attacks. ISIS, Al-Qaeda and other terrorist groups are directly threatening Americans, our troops, and our allies abroad every single day. In fact, a group related to ISIS recently posted online the photos and addresses of about 100 U.S. troops so that – in their words – ‘our brothers residing in America can deal with you.’ “Our military families have also been threatened with attacks. We can’t stand idly by. We must act. And, this additional funding will help. “The amendment also adds $2 million for the ‘Yellow Ribbon’ reintegration program to help our active duty and National Guard troops. “As a veteran myself, I know just how difficult the reintegration process can be. In fact, I’m in regular contact with many of the Marines from my platoon and we talk about this every day. These men and women have put their lives on the line for our country and our freedom. We owe it to them to provide them with the resources they need both on and off the battlefield. “And lastly, this amendment adds $5 million for Joint Warfighter Medical Research, which provides the latest cutting edge techniques to save injured troops on battlefield. The men and women who fight on our behalf should know that we have their backs at the most difficult times. “These initiatives are fully paid for with a reasonable and common sense reduction in funding for Defense Media activity, which provides magazines and movies for our military. “I ask my colleagues, is it more important to fund the fight against ISIS or to fund government funded Scooby Doo. After all, if the troops really want to watch it they can get the cartoons on their smart phones anyway. “Rarely in this chamber is the choice before us so clear. Let’s take a small step to improve this bill for our military families and for our troops. “I urge you to vote yes on this Motion to Recommit.”
06.10.2015	Small Business Committee Unanimously Passes Moulton Bill to Increase Access to Capital for Startups and Small Businesses June 10th, 2015 Washington, D.C. – Today, the House Committee on Small Business unanimously passed legislation co-authored by Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) to increase access to capital for startups and small businesses by modernizing the Small Business Administration’s (SBA) Microloan Program. The bill, the Microloan Modernization Act, aims to increase loans available to small businesses and provide greater flexibility for borrowers. Moulton co-authored the bipartisan bill with Representative Carlos Curbelo (R-FL) and Representative Nydia Velasquez (D-NY). “Small businesses are the backbone of our nation’s economy,” said Moulton. “Too often our small business leaders, and especially aspiring entrepreneurs, either try to self-finance new business ventures on personal credit cards or don’t take the risk at all given the fear of failure. We need to give these business leaders the tools and resources they need to start new business and grow existing ones. Expanding access to capital is a critical part of ensuring our small businesses have the opportunity to thrive.” The Merrimack Valley Small Business Center services loans through the SBA’s Microloan Program for entrepreneurs in Middlesex and Essex Counties. The Microloan Modernization Act expands access to capital and offers greater flexibility to borrowers, specifically it: Creates a waiver for the “25/75 rule,” an outdated formula that prevents microloan intermediaries like the Merrimack Valley Small Business Center from adequately addressing the needs of each borrower; Increases the aggregate loan limit cap to $6 million to better serve small business borrowers in high-demand areas; Extends the repayment period to 10 years for loans greater than $10,000; Authorizes the SBA to extend lines of credit for small businesses. For more information about Congressman Seth Moulton visit our website at https://moulton.house.gov/ or find the Congressman on Facebook or Twitter. ###
06.05.2015	Congressman Seth Moulton Introduces First Legislation June 5th, 2015 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) introduced his first package of legislation: The VA Education Training and Sustainability (VETS) Act, four bills aimed at improving the talent pipeline at Veterans Affairs (VA) medical facilities across the country. VETS focuses on four specific initiatives: recruiting new talent, investing in existing employees, retaining staff and improving oversight of employee incentive and training programs. Moulton, a Marine veteran who declined private Congressional health insurance to continue to receive care from the VA, has said that his top priority in Congress is to ensure our nation’s 21 million veterans receive top care. “Veterans have earned the best care in the world, and today we are letting them down,” said Moulton. “With long wait times, a backlog of claims and inconsistent care, we must do better for our nation’s veterans. This package of bills is the first of many steps to cut the red tape currently impeding quality care, and improve services for our nation’s veterans.” The bills in VETS aim to improve care by offering incentives to both current and also potential VA health care employees. The VETS package includes four bills, including the Recruit Act, Train Act, Retain Act and Flexibility and Oversight Act. More information on each specific bill is below. Recruit Act: Recruit top talent to the VA · Expands the VA’s Health Professional Scholarship Program, which allows individuals to receive scholarships for health care education (e.g., nurses, physician assistants, physicians, etc.) in exchange for a certain amount of time of obligated service working at the VA. · Ensures that scholarships may be up to 100% of tuition and expenses (e.g., books, etc.). · Improves the Secretary of Veterans Affairs’ authority to adjust the ‘years of obligated service’ for which a VA healthcare employee must serve in proportion to the total amount of scholarship received (i.e., someone who receives full scholarship would have to serve more years of obligated service after finishing medical or nursing school). Train Act: Invest in current VA employees · Expands the VA’s Employee Incentive Scholarship Program, which aims to ensure that current Veterans Health Administration (VHA) employees have scholarships for certain health professions which face retention or recruitment challenges. · Changes from three to four years (i.e. the length of medical school) the number of school years for receiving a scholarship, thus allowing current employees who wish to go to medical school the incentive to do so. · Increases the authorized amount of scholarship in a given academic year from $10,000 to $25,000 (to account for increased costs of tuition, particularly medical school). Retain Act: Keep talented medical staff at the VA · Expands the VA’s Education Debt Reduction Program (EDRP) to include a pool of health care workers eligible for debt reduction for costs related to tuition or related educational expenses (e.g., books, fees, etc.) · Expands eligibility for EDRP benefits to include doctors, nurses, physicians assistants, audiologists, mental health counselors, physical therapists, occupational therapists, and others (previously only those in positions that are hard to recruit or retain were eligible). Flexibility and Oversight Act: Flexibility and oversight to better serve veterans · Provides the Secretary of the VA the authority to transfer funds among various targeted employee recruiting, training, and retention programs in order to maximize quality of services provided to veterans. · Requires the VA to report on the effectiveness of employee recruiting, training, and retention programs as part of the mandatory VA Annual Report to Congress. Last month, in a letter to the Government Accountability Office (GAO), Moulton requested an independent investigation into the VA’s opioid prescription and pain management practices. Three House and Senate members, including Massachusetts Senator Edward Markey, joined Moulton in sending the letter to the GAO. For more information visit our website at www.moulton.house.gov or find Congressman Moulton on Facebook or Twitter.
06.01.2015	Reps Moulton, Keating, Lynch Fisheries Amendment Passes the House June 1st, 2015 Washington, DC – Today, an amendment to reform the use of monies in the Asset Forfeiture Fund (AFF), which was submitted by Massachusetts Reps. Bill Keating (MA-09), Stephen Lynch (MA-08), and Seth Moulton (MA-06), passed the US House of Representatives. The amendment is now included in H.R. 1335, the Strengthening Fishing Communities and Increasing Flexibility in Fisheries Management Act. The amendment would ensure that monies in the AFF are used for: fishery research and stock assessments, at-sea and shore-side monitoring, conservation gear engineering, fishery impact statements, and other priorities established by the Regional Fishery Management Councils in order to rebuild or maintain sustainable fisheries, ensure healthy ecosystems, and maintain fishing communities. “In 2010, the Department of Commerce Inspector General audited the AFF and determined that there had been misuse, waste, and abuse in the distribution of monies – many times often going to activities unrelated to the fishing industry,” said Rep. Bill Keating. “NOAA responded by setting limits as to how the funds in the AFF can be used. We need more than direction on how the money can’t be spent. We need parameters on how the money should be spent. This is a simple, straightforward amendment that provides more science and resources to an industry that desperately needs it. There is no such thing as ‘too many’ hard facts or data, and the ability to use them to better inform fisheries management.” “We cannot allow the money in the NOAA’s Asset Forfeiture Fund to be wasted when fishermen stand to benefit from targeted scientific research and resources dedicated to the fishing industry,” said Rep. Lynch. “I am proud to join Representatives Keating and Moulton on this important amendment that will reduce government waste and improve fisheries management in Massachusetts and across the country.” “Fishermen and environmentalists want the same thing: healthy and sustainable fisheries,” said Rep. Moulton. “This amendment will help achieve that objective through meaningful and targeted uses of NOAA’s Asset Forfeiture Fund. I’m proud to partner with Representatives Lynch and Keating on our shared commitment to protect and enhance our Commonwealth’s fishing community.” Rep. Keating’s first piece of original legislation as a Member of Congress was H.R. 1013, the Strengthen Fisheries Management in New England Act, which required that penalties collected from New England fishermen and invested in NOAA’s Asset Forfeiture Fund be used to improve the management of New England fisheries. H.R. 1013 specifically directed the US Secretary of Commerce to provide the New England Fishery Management Council with the AFF funds that have been collected from New England fishermen for direct use toward improving the research and management of New England’s fisheries. ###
06.01.2015	Congressman Moulton’s Floor Speech on NOAA Asset Forfeiture Fund Amendment June 1st, 2015 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) joined Congressmen William Keating and Stephen Lynch to offer an amendment to reform the use of monies in the Asset Forfeiture Fund (AFF) to H.R. 1335, the Strengthening Fishing Communities and Increasing Flexibility in Fisheries Management Act. Below is a statement that Moulton delivered on the Floor of the House of Representatives. “I would like to thank my colleague and friend from Massachusetts, Mr. Keating, for the time and for all the work he has done along with Mr. Lynch on behalf of our Commonwealth’s fishing communities. “I rise in strong support of this amendment, which clarifies the uses of NOAA’s Asset Forfeiture Fund so we can make smart investments in scientific research and preserve an economically viable fishing industry. “This amendment will provide our fishermen, shore-side businesses, and fishing communities with the assurance that the money in NOAA’s Asset Forfeiture Fund will go towards improving the science behind sustainable fishery management practices. Additionally, the amendment offers fisheries Councils with the resources they need to develop comprehensive fishery impact analyses to better serve our fisheries and fishing communities . “The intent of Congress in the Magnuson-Stevens Act is for fishery managers to strike an appropriate balance between science-based conservation and measures that will ensure the long-term viability of fishing communities. “The amendment my colleagues and I are offering today is very much in line with this directive. I urge a yes vote and yield back the balance of my time.” ###
05.26.2015	Congressman Moulton Gives the Commencement Address at North Shore Community College May 26th, 2015 Peabody, MA – Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) delivered the commencement address to the 2015 graduates of North Shore Community College on Thursday, May 21st. Below is a transcript of the Congressman’s remarks: “Thank you President Gentile, and the distinguished members of the North Shore Community College faculty. It is a privilege to be here with you. And thank you to all the alumni, special guests, family members, and friends—your presence makes this day that much more special. “And most importantly, thank you to the Class of 2015. You did it! It is an honor to be here with you, and let me say again: congratulations. “It wasn’t too long ago that I was sitting in the very place you are today: A bright-eyed college grad ready to take on the world. And, let’s be honest, incredibly grateful that the exams, papers, labs and presentations were in my past. “There was also a part of me that was apprehensive, unsure of what would come next, and sad to be losing the college community I had come to love. I remember that like it was yesterday, too. “So what’s next? I won’t tell you that I know the answers. My aim today is not to tell you the keys to success and happiness – I’m trying to figure them all out myself – but instead to share three specific lessons that I’ve learned since graduating from college. “First, embrace the unknown. “In college, I was a physics major. As you can imagine, there wasn’t exactly a pipeline from the Harvard physics department to the US Marine Corps. But as I thought about what I wanted to do after graduation, nobody inspired me more than the 18 and 19 year-old kids who served on the front lines of our Nation’s military. I still feel that way today. “Truthfully, my family was shocked by my decision. In fact my mother, whom I love dearly, was asked by a Boston Magazine reporter how proud she was of me for joining the Marines. Her answer? “I would only be more disappointed in Seth,” she said, “if he had chosen a life of crime.” “Hopefully nobody here is hearing that this morning! She loved me, but she was scared. And I’d be lying if I told you that I wasn’t a little scared myself. “Being a Marine is not easy. There were days without sleep, days without enough food or ammunition, and the constant threat of IEDs, mortar attacks, and betrayal. It’s been well-documented how unprepared we were for the war—my platoon was given Humvees with sheet metal cut-out doors in order to protect ourselves from roadside bombs. They didn’t work very well. “I decided to join the Marines before September 11th, so when I was sitting at my college graduation, I never could have imagined I’d be leading a platoon in combat a couple years later. But even in a war I disagreed with, my work impacted the lives of other people every single day. “I embraced my new job—even though it was completely unknown and a little frightening to me—and the job changed me. I never would have run for office if not for my experience in the Marines, so it made me the person I am today. The Marines gave me a purpose greater than myself, and finding purpose in your work is a great gift, so don’t be afraid to embrace the unknown. “It was also in Iraq that I learned my second lesson: friends can come in unexpected places. “When we made it to Baghdad during the invasion, my first translator was named Saddam Hussein. I asked this college kid who was just about my age, “Is that really your name?” He looked down and said, “Yes. It used to be really popular.” “Young Saddam Hussein, despite his suddenly unfortunate name, was a terrific translator and a good friend. After a short while he was reassigned and I was paired with a new translator, Mohammed. “Mohammed was like me in so many ways: the same age, just finishing up college, we talked about American movies and his favorite actresses as much as we talked about the future of Iraq. Mohammed loved school, and wanted to become a college professor, but he wasn’t of the right religion to do so in Baghdad, and he was nearly killed for speaking out against Saddam Hussein (not my young translator—the other Saddam Hussein). “Our first assignment together was to produce a news program, Moulton & Mohammed, which was a sort of news talk show for Iraqis south of Baghdad. Before the Americans arrived, the TV station had simply played tapes from the Ministry of Information. The Iraqis had no concept of a free media. “Mohammed and I found interesting stories and asked the tough questions the Iraqi people wanted to understand, like why there was no electricity or why their government wouldn’t listen to them. “To our surprise, the show became quite popular and Mohammed and I became minor celebrities. I even had to sign autographs in the streets! Let me tell you, nobody asks me to do that in Lynn. “Mohammed and I came from vastly different backgrounds, but we became incredibly close friends and today he is like a brother to me. Mohammed taught me so many things that I would never have learned growing up among friends in Massachusetts. “One thing I never received from my community back home was death threats, but for Mohammed, this because a regular occurrence for him and his family because of his work with us Americans, so I helped him move to the United States. Mohammed had put his life on the line, not only for his own country, but for ours, so it was the least I could do. “He moved here to Massachusetts and lived with my family while he navigated the incredibly complex immigration process—and if President Gentile will let me speak for an additional three hours we can talk about all the things we need to do to fix that immigration process. “So, as I headed back for my fourth and final tour to Iraq, Mohammed moved into my brother’s bedroom, and my family, and the entire community, embraced him. My mom taught him how to cook, my Dad taught him how to shovel snow, our friends taught him how to drive, and Mohammed taught our entire community about how special America truly is to the oppressed around the globe. “And I am proud to say that today, Mohammed has achieved his dream of becoming a college professor. He teaches English at Thomas Nelson Community College in Virginia. But he still comes back to Massachusetts to spend holidays with my family. “So, friends come in unexpected places. “Which brings me to my third lesson, about the power of community and the importance of service to that community. “I embraced the unknown in Iraq, I embraced Mohammed as a new, if unlikely friend, and then our community embraced Mohammed. That’s the power of community to give, but we also have to ask what we can give back. “By virtue of the diplomas you will receive today, opportunities are about to open up for you like never before. You can and must take advantage of these opportunities, but remember that you have an obligation to give back to the community that made those opportunities possible. Go out see the world, but come back and be tomorrow’s leaders here at home. “When I joined the Marines at 22 years old, I thought I would serve the country for four years and that would be enough. I would check that box, and nobody would ever expect me to serve the country or the community again. “But instead, the Marines taught me that I love to serve, and the experience instilled in me a commitment to serving my country for a lifetime. “There are many of you who I know understand this appetite to continue to serve. In fact, this college has done a tremendous amount to invest in Lynn and the greater North Shore community. It has also placed a great emphasis on service and civic engagement. “I want to take a moment to specifically thank the more than 50 veterans graduating here today. Thank you for your service. And today, as you graduate from college and dare to dream, thank you for investing in yourselves. “My call to continue to serve came shortly after leaving the Marines. I’ll be honest with you: I had no plans to go into politics. I didn’t grow up in a political family; I wasn’t a member of a political club; nor had I even volunteered on a campaign. “But I fought in a war where I felt I saw the consequences of failed political leadership. I think Congress didn’t know what they were doing when they got us into Iraq, and they didn’t have our backs when we were there. “There was one day, in fact, when one of my Marines said to me, “Sir, you ought to run for Congress someday so that this stuff doesn’t happen again.” Now, he used a Marine term for “stuff,” but you get what I mean. “It seemed like a crazy suggestion at the time to someone who was—and still is—paying off his college loans, but that young Marine’s words stuck with me. I couldn’t complain about the status quo if I wasn’t willing to do anything about it myself. “When I decided to run for Congress in the summer of 2013, a lot of people told me that I shouldn’t do it, and even if I did, that I couldn’t win. “After about eight months of working hard every single day, building a team, collecting donations, shaking hands at local diners and train stations, holding countless community meetings—and still six months out from the election—we commissioned a poll. The poll showed us that all those critics were probably right. I was down 54 points. Even my own pollster told me I should quit because it was statistically impossible to win. “Yet, from the countless meetings I held across the district, I knew that our community agreed that our country was headed in the wrong direction. So while our strategy was wrong, I was confident that our vision was right. “Elections are about your community as much as anything because it’s literally the community’s decision. I heard a promise in the community, and I knew it was worth fighting for. “This commencement marks a new beginning for all of us. It’s a new beginning for me as a new member of Congress in this community, and it’s a new beginning for all of you as new college graduates. Like Mohammed and me, I hope you find something worth fighting for in your community. “So those are three the lessons I want to share with you today: embrace the unknown, friends come in strange places, and find meaning and purpose in giving back to your community. “But most of you will probably not remember all of that. Trust me, from experience, most of you will not remember what I’ve said here today. A few years from now—maybe even a few hours from now depending on your evening plans—you’ll probably forget it. But if you don’t remember what I’ve said, take a moment, right now, to remember how you feel: the pride at your tremendous achievement, the opportunity for you beyond these walls, and the love of your family and friends—and yes, of this community—that I hope you will return. “Most commencement speeches are all about following your dreams and doing what you love. And that’s important, and I hope you will. But more importantly, I hope you truly find love and purpose in doing something to help serve others and our community. Our community wants you to do that. We need you to do that. And there are many of us out there who will be proud to do it with you, together. “My greatest mentor, the Late Reverend Peter J. Gomes, often reminded my classmates and me that college, at its best, teaches you not just how to make a living, but how to make a life. “My hope for you is that each of you will make a decent living, but that each of you will make a truly wonderful life. How much of a living you make will be defined by how much you get for yourself. But how much of a life you make will be defined by how much you give to others. “So take the opportunity this new beginning has given you, and embrace the unknown. Be open to the incredible people you will meet along the way. And remember to invest in the community that has invested so much in you. That’s a life worth living. And it’s a future that should make you proud. “Thank you.” Photo from North Shore Community College Flickr account ###
05.21.2015	Congressman Seth Moulton Calls for Investigation Into the Use of Opioid Painkillers at VA Hospitals Across the Country May 21st, 2015 Washington, D.C. – Today, in a letter to the Government Accountability Office (GAO), Congressman Seth Moulton called for an independent investigation into the Veterans Affairs’s (VA) opioid prescription and pain management practices. Three House and Senate members, including Massachusetts Senator Edward Markey, joined Moulton in sending the letter to the GAO. One in four veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan report symptoms of a mental or cognitive disorder and one in six report symptoms of post-traumatic stress. At the same time, the number of opioid medications prescribed at the VA has more than doubled in the last decade, with nearly 25-percent of patients receiving the medication. “The increase in opioid use in Massachusetts is a true public health emergency that is impacting every community in our commonwealth, but especially our veterans,” said Moulton. “Too often, veterans are being treated with these painkillers instead of other available treatments, including counseling. Our veterans have put their lives on the line for this country; we must give them the treatment they need and the treatment they have earned. “The Bedford VA clinic, in my district, is one of the lowest prescribers of opiates in the country. Part of this investigation is to study not just what is going wrong, but to learn from the successes and best practices from facilities like Bedford.” A copy of the letter to the GAO, can be found here. ###
05.20.2015	Winter Storm Grants and Loans Available to Nonprofits and Small Businesses May 20th, 2015 Snow Removal Grant Assistance for Government Agencies & Private Nonprofit Organizations DEADLINE: JUNE 10, 2015 Disaster grant assistance is available for certain nonprofit organizations (as well as local, county and state government) for debris removal, emergency protective measures, and the repair, replacement, or restoration of disaster-damaged, publicly owned facilities and the facilities of certain Private Non-Profit (PNP) organizations, during the January 26-28 storms . Payment of no less than 75% for snow assistance, for a continuous 48 hour period of time during or proximate to the incident period. Snow Assistance may include snow removal, de-icing, salting, snow dumps, and sanding of roads and other facilities essential to eliminate or lessen immediate threats to life, public health, and safety. Additional information, and application materials, can be found at http://www.mass.gov/eopss/agencies/mema/incident-information/winter-storm-january-2015/january-2015-winter-storm-public-assistance-dr-4214.html Physical Damage Loans for Nonprofits DEADLINE: JUNE 12, 2015 Low-interest loans from the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) are available to qualifying private nonprofit organizations for physical damages caused by the record-breaking snowfall and extreme cold temperatures between Jan. 26, 2015 and Feb. 22, 2015. Applicants may apply online using the Electronic Loan Application (ELA) via SBA’s secure website at https://disasterloan.sba.gov/ela Economic Injury Loans for Small Businesses & Nonprofits DEADLINE: FEBRUARY 15, 2016 Low-interest economic injury disaster loans from the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) are available to Massachusetts small businesses, small agricultural cooperatives, small aquaculture businesses and private non-profit organizations affected by the record-breaking snowfall and extreme cold temperatures between Jan. 26, 2015 and Feb. 22, 2015 Applicants may apply online using the Electronic Loan Application (ELA) via SBA’s secure website at https://disasterloan.sba.gov/ela
05.19.2015	Congressman Moulton Fights for Long-Term Fix to Meet Nation’s Infrastructure Needs May 19th, 2015 Washington, D.C. — Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) today joined 35 Democratic and Republicans in the U.S. House of Representatives to vote against H.R. 2353, the Highway and Transportation Funding Act of 2015. Below is a statement from Congressman Moulton. “I fully support the Highway Trust Fund, which finances infrastructure projects across the country – including many in Massachusetts. However, it has fallen victim to Congress’ tendency to govern crisis to crisis. In fact, in just six years, Congress has voted 33 times on a short-term fix to keep the Fund solvent. We cannot operate in a government that proposes short-term patches to solve long-term problems. “Again, at the end of July, the Highway Trust Fund will become insolvent if Congress does not act. I hope that my vote against the short-term fix will help send a message to Republican leaders in Congress that we need a long-term solution to our nation’s crumbling infrastructure, which gives our workers, contractors and businesses the certainty they need to rebuild our roads, bridges and highways. Let’s solve this problem now and avoid a 34th vote on a quick fix.” ###
05.11.2015	Massachusetts Congressional Delegation Urges President Obama to Support Governor Baker’s Disaster Declaration Appeal Request May 11th, 2015 Washington, D.C. – The Massachusetts Congressional delegation today sent a letter to President Obama supporting the formal appeal request from Governor Charlie Baker to extend the FEMA designated 48-hour period of snow assistance to a 72-hour period for eligible applications. In the letter, the Massachusetts lawmakers point to the heavy toll the winter storms took on local budgets. Governor Baker estimates snow removal operations cost approximately $350 million and were the result of unprecedented and disastrous weather with record snowfall. “The current 48-hour period approved for snow assistance is not adequate, given the excessive costs incurred by the state and municipalities in nine counties in plowing, hauling, and disposing of crippling amounts for now from the blizzard and subsequent storms,” write the Massachusetts lawmakers in the letter to President Obama. “These communities are currently struggling to manage this significant financial impact, and are being forced into a position of having to cut other critical services to make up these deficits. A copy of the letter can be found HERE. ###
05.04.2015	Congressman Moulton Elected Top Democrat of Subcommittee on Health and Technology May 4th, 2015 Peabody, MA – Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) was unanimously elected the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Health and Technology on the House Small Business Committee. In this capacity, he will oversee legislation pertaining to how health care policies can promote economic growth and job creation by small businesses. Moulton’s Subcommittee will also examine small business job growth through the creation and adoption of advanced technologies. “Small businesses are the engine of our economy, and Massachusetts is home to thousands of health and technology startups and small businesses,” said Moulton. “This is an incredibly important issue for my district, for this state and for our nation. I’m thankful to my colleagues on the Small Business Committee for their faith in my leadership on this important issue and proud to serve as the top Democrat on this subcommittee. I look forward to creating policies that help small businesses grow and encourage innovation.”
04.30.2015	Congressman Moulton Supports Bill to Raise the National Minimum Wage April 30th, 2015 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) signed on as an original co-sponsor of the Raise the Wage Act, legislation that would increase the national minimum wage from $7.50 to $12.00 by the year 2020. “Unfortunately, today, too many Americans are working multiple jobs just to put food on the table for their families,” said Moulton. “That’s not good for families, and it’s not good for our economy. Massachusetts has been a leader in the effort to pay workers a fair wage, but we still have work to do here in Massachusetts and across the country to ensure that those who work full time can make ends meet.” If implemented, the Raise the Wage Act would give 38 million hard-working Americans a raise, including the parents of nearly 18.7 million children. A $12.00 per hour minimum wage would give workers almost $110 billion in pay increases. Putting more money into the pockets of low-wage workers stimulates consumer demand and strengthens our national economy. Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) introduced a companion legislation in the Senate. ###
04.29.2015	Moulton Offers NDAA Amendment to Protect Ground Troops, Preserve 100 A-10s April 29th, 2015 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) offered an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 that would have preserved 100 A-10 aircraft and redirected funds to unfunded requirements requested by the Department of Defense. Moulton’s remarks in support of his amendment as delivered are below. Click here to see a video of his speech. My amendment does three things. First, it keeps an inventory of over 100 A-10s. Second, it shifts the highly unusual preloaded offset for excess A-10s to purchase DOD identified unfunded requirements to support our frontline troops. Third, it ensures the greatest military effectiveness by better equipping our ground troops while freeing up resources the Air Force needs. I respect Representative McSally, for her service both flying A-10s and now serving as my colleague on the Armed Services Committee. But I strongly disagree with her sense of priorities for our troops on the ground. I speak as an infantry combat veteran of the Iraq War. My commitment to troops on the ground is unwavering. I also have great appreciation for the record of the A-10 and its pilots supporting troops in combat. I wouldn’t be alive today if it not for close air support. But what you never hear from the appeals of the A-10 community is what the tradeoffs are, and they are big. First, there is the $682 million the committee had to carve out of this year’s DOD budget. Over four years, the cost to keep all A-10s reaches more than $4 billion. My substitute amendment is not about whether or not the A-10 is a good aircraft for its mission or whether we may want to keep some in the inventory. It is a good plane, and having some number of them may be a good idea. But it is not the only aircraft that does air support, and it is definitely not the only thing our military needs. Instead, my substitute amendment is about whether or not forcing the Air Force to keep all its current A-10s in FY16 is the best way to use $682 million. I don’t believe it is. Let me briefly describe the substitute amendment in front of members and how it better supports our frontline troops. This amendment authorizes the Air Force to carry out its plan for FY16 to retire up to 164 A-10 aircraft out of a total fleet of 283. It also asks for a report from the Air Force on how it can best use its 119 remaining A-10s to provide ground support to our troops in the future. Most importantly, it shifts those unrequested funds to critical unfunded requirements that our frontline infantry troops need. First, it adds $75 million for counter-IED equipment for the Marine Corps. This funding will provide 500 new counter-IED systems to meet the latest threats. As members know, IEDs were the number one killer of Americans in the Iraq and Afghanistan wars. They have literally killed thousands of young Americans, not six, thousands – far more than will die from the rare scenarios where only an A-10 can provide close air support. Second, my amendment adds $160 million for 8 additional MQ-9 Reaper unmanned aerial systems, which are in great demand and are DOD’s weapon of choice in global counterterrorism operations. It also invests in TOW bunker busting missiles, which are currently at just 21% inventory in the Marine Corps, and it invests in critical upgrades to F-16s and C-130s that are also unfunded in the current mark. At every point in our history, in both good budget times and bad, we are charged on this committee with making tough budgetary decisions. While we consider diverting funds to the A-10, China and Russia are investing in aircraft that present very real challenges to our most advanced F-22s and F-35s and could easily take out a pack of A-10s. Now you can always construct a scenario, and find a war hero to represent it, where only a certain weapons system is the one that works. But in truth, there are very few combat scenarios where the mission of the A-10 cannot be covered by other, more advanced aircraft in our Air Force – more maneuverable helicopters close to the ground and faster moving jets that can both defend themselves against enemy aircraft and provide accurate fire to troops in combat. Indeed, the Marine Corps provides some of the best air support in the world without a single A-10. There are also plenty of scenarios where a slow moving airplane is more vulnerable or less effective. An A-10 is no good at all if it is shot down by a now common shoulder-launched missile. I urge members to support my substitute amendment. It does not retire all the A-10 aircraft we have, and every dollar affected by my amendment moves funds from a program the Air Force hasn’t requested, to unfunded requirements our war fighters need. And in case anyone wants to question my own motives here, the biggest employer in the biggest city in my district makes the A-10 engine and briefed me on Monday that they stand to gain significantly from reinvestment in the aircraft. But this is not and should not be about district politics. This is about our shared national security and the lives of the young Americans whom we ask to defend it.
04.22.2015	Congressman Moulton Votes Against Bill That Would Weaken Dodd-Frank Consumer Protections April 22nd, 2015 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) voted against the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection Advisory Boards Act (H.R. 1195) which would weaken consumer protections under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. The bill, which initially had bipartisan support, established three advisory boards to provide information about small business, credit unions and community banks to CFPB – an initiative that Moulton, and many progressive Democrats, support. Unfortunately, after the bill received bipartisan support in committee, Republicans attempted to undermine the agency by adding provisions to drastically cut funding, thus weakening consumer protections and losing Democratic support for the bill. “This is an unfortunate example of House Republicans choosing politics over progress,” said Moulton. “The Consumer Financial Protection Advisory Board Act had significant bipartisan support until House Republicans attempted to slash funding to a debilitating level. Consumers rely on the CFPB for protections against abusive practices in the financial marketplace. Congress should ensure this important agency has the resources it needs to protect consumers.” When the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act was initially signed in to law in 2010, it established the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), the watchdog that protects consumers against abusive practices in the financial marketplace. To date, it has provided $5.3B in relief to more than 15 million consumers and helped students struggling with the high cost of student loans. Additionally, more than 2,100 colleges have voluntarily adopted the Financial Aid Shopping Sheet developed jointly by the CFPB and U.S. Department of Education as part of the Know Before You Owe student loans project. ###
04.17.2015	Statement From Congressman Seth Moulton on Fast Track April 17th, 2015 Peabody, MA – Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) released the following statement on the Bipartisan Congressional Trade Priorities and Accountability Act of 2015, commonly known as Fast Track. “I put a lot of thought into big decisions. It’s part of the reason I ran for Congress — not to simply do what the left wants or what the right wants, but do the right thing for our country. Our country faces complex problems, so the solutions cannot be of an all-or-nothing variety. In fact, it’s the all-or-nothing approach that is so problematic in today’s politics. “The same careful approach is necessary for international trade agreements. Although exports have driven a lot of new economic growth in Massachusetts in recent years, some communities have not done well. What works well for some communities and businesses may not work for all. So a reflexive, automatic approach one way or the other isn’t the right course. “We now have an opportunity to carefully and thoughtfully review the Bipartisan Congressional Trade Priorities and Accountability Act of 2015, released just yesterday, to determine whether it will truly level the playing field for American workers and businesses. Instead of making a quick reflexive decision, I plan to read the entire 113-page bill, specifically looking to see how it impacts Massachusetts families. I know American workers can succeed in the 21st century global economy — if they have a fair shot. “I will study the bill and continue conversations I’ve had with key stakeholders including labor groups, the White House, environmental organizations, and business groups to fully understand their various perspectives. This is not a decision I am taking lightly, and I plan to take this time to ensure I thoroughly understand the bill and its impact on workers.”
04.15.2015	Congressman Moulton Votes for Bipartisan Housing Bills April 15th, 2015 Washington, D.C. – Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) voted last week for two bipartisan bills – the Preserving Access to Manufactured Housing Act and the Mortgage Choice Act – to expand access to affordable housing for low- to mid-income families. “I fundamentally support the vital consumer financial protections of the Dodd-Frank Act, said Moulton. “I also believe that no bill is perfect, and there is always room for improvement. That’s why last week I voted for two bipartisan bills that preserve the necessary Dodd-Frank consumer protections while correcting unintended consequences of the law that squeezed access to mortgage credit for low- and middle- income families. The Preserving Access to Manufactured Housing Act expands affordable housing options for the many Massachusetts families who live in manufactured homes. Due to current regulations, some banks have stopped or severely restricted offering manufactured home loans, making it difficult, if not impossible, for families to obtain loans or sell their current homes. Moulton argued that we need use every tool at our disposal to protect against the real predatory lending that exists in the industry. However, the current regulations prevent many would-be homeowners from ever owning an affordable home and instead push some into higher cost options they may not be able to afford. The bill fixes the problem while maintaining protections against predatory lending and federal oversight of the market. That’s why local Massachusetts realtors, credit unions and progressive Democrats like Rep. Terri Sewell, who represents hundreds of thousands of mobile homeowners, support this bill. The second bill, the Mortgage Choice Act, was passed unanimously by the House of Representatives just last year. It is a bipartisan bill that provides an important regulatory clarification. It maintains the vital protections of the Dodd-Frank Act while expanding access to mortgage credit and increasing competition in the market which, Moulton argues, is a good thing for consumers. A realtor, based in Massachusetts’ Sixth Congressional District, added that “Yesterday, Congressman Moulton stood with Massachusetts REALTORs in calling for sensible reforms to Dodd-Frank that will result in an increase in consumer access to affordable mortgage credit while ensuring that its many essential consumer safeguards are still protected. Qualified Massachusetts residents deserve access to affordable mortgage credit and homeownership options and we thank Congressman Moulton for his support on these critical pieces of legislation.” “I ran for Congress to be an independent voice in Washington,” said Moulton. “I review every policy on its merits and its impact on Massachusetts. Protecting Dodd-Frank from Republican attacks is important, but when we have an opportunity to improve that law, we shouldn’t hide in our partisan corners. We should work together with both parties to make progress. That’s what I did last week.” ###
04.02.2015	Moulton Names Entrepreneur and Marine Veteran Roger Dean Huffstetler Chief of Staff April 2nd, 2015 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) named entrepreneur and Marine veteran Roger Dean Huffstetler his chief of staff. Huffstetler joins the staff this week and will be based in the Congressman’s Washington D.C. office. “Over the last three months, I have worked incredibly hard to build a team of highly talented individuals who share my commitment to serving this country, and specifically the 6th District of Massachusetts,” said Moulton. “I am humbled by the caliber of people who have joined this team and incredibly grateful that Roger Dean has taken on the challenge of leading it. As an entrepreneur and Marine, Roger Dean brings extraordinary leadership skills and shares my commitment to fixing the VA and ensuring our veterans have the benefits and care they have earned. I have tremendous confidence in Roger Dean and look forward to working with him to bring fresh, innovative ideas to Congress and Massachusetts.” Huffstetler graduated from the University of West Georgia in 2001 with a degree in chemistry. He later enlisted in the Marine Corps where he served in both Afghanistan and Iraq, rising to the rank of Sergeant. After leaving the military, Huffstetler earned a Masters in Business Administration from the Harvard Business School and a Masters in Public Aadministration from the Harvard Kennedy School. It was at Harvard, as a Zuckerman Fellow, that he got to know Moulton. For the past five years, Huffstetler has worked in the San Francisco Bay Area, first at a high-growth startup called Twilio and later co-founding a Big Data startup, Zillabyte. “Like many people across the district, I am inspired by Congressman Moulton’s call to change the way business is done in Washington,” said Huffstetler. “In the Marines, you learn about the importance of teamwork and collaboration. Congress needs more people like Moulton who are willing to roll up their sleeves and work in a bipartisan fashion to do the work of the American people. I am honored to join Moulton’s team and look forward to serving the 6th district.” Huffstetler joins a team of six in Moulton’s Washington D.C. office including deputy chief of staff, Andy Flick; legislative director, Steven Snodgrass; legislative aides Eric Kanter and Margo Brown; scheduler, Brendan O’Bryan; and staff assistant Meaghan Doherty. ###
03.24.2015	Congressman Seth Moulton Named to House Small Business Committee March 24th, 2015 Washington, D.C. — Today, House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi named Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) to the House Small Business Committee. Moulton is one of just 12 Democrats to have three committee assignments; a typical office has two. Moulton also sits on the House Armed Services and House Budget Committees. “Entrepreneurship is the lifeblood of the American economy,” said Leader Pelosi. “Seth Moulton has brought fresh energy and ideas to our caucus, and we know he will continue to make the people of Massachusetts proud on the Small Business committee. Guided by his own experiences as a decorated Iraq war veteran, we know Congressman Moulton will be an insightful and effective champion for supporting the entrepreneurship of our returning veterans. We are confident that Congressman Moulton will bring his considerable creativity and ability to the mission of unleashing the full potential of America’s small businesses.” The House Committee on Small Business provides direct oversight and consideration of matters affecting small firms in the United States. It oversees the assistance and protection of small business, including financial aid, regulatory flexibility, and paperwork reduction, as well as the participation of small-business enterprises in Federal procurement and Government contracts. “Small businesses are the backbone of our nation’s economy,” said Moulton. “In Massachusetts, nearly 90-percent of all companies across the state are small businesses. We need to protect these companies – both in Massachusetts and across the country – and ensure that they have the tools and resources they need to thrive. It is a true honor to serve on this committee.” “Mr. Moulton’s experience as an entrepreneur and in the military should both be useful on the Small Business Committee as we work to strengthen the small business sector and address issues related to veteran-owned small businesses,” said Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY), ranking member on the Committee on Small Business. “I am pleased he has joined the Committee and look forward to his contributions.” ###
03.18.2015	Congressman Moulton Offers Two Amendments to Republican Budget March 18th, 2015 Washington, D.C. — Today, at the House Budget Committee mark-up of the Republican budget, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA), a member of the committee, offered two amendments. The first amendment provides funding to prepare students for 21st century jobs and the second protects the VA from future government shutdowns. Yesterday, House Republicans released their budget, an alternative to President Barack Obama’s budget announced earlier this year, and today the full committee met to discuss and finalize the bill before sending it to the House Floor for a vote. Upon reviewing the budget, Moulton vowed to try to find common ground with Republicans, but said he would not stray from his commitment to working families. “The Republican House Budget fails to set our nation on the right path towards economic growth,” said Moulton. “When I took this office, I vowed to work in a bipartisan fashion and I’m committed to doing that. However, this budget fails to grow our economy and it deprives hard working families of the resources and support they need to succeed. While this budget, in its entirety, is bad for our working families, I am proud to offer two amendments that I believe will strengthen the bill in two key areas.” Moulton’s first amendment will invest $2 billion over the next ten years in mandatory funding to provide reliable federal support for career and technical education that helps prepare students for jobs in the competitive 21st Century workforce. Increased funding would be provided as part of the reauthorization of the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act in support of President Obama’s goal that every student graduates from high-school ready for college and a career and that the United States leads the world in college completion by 2020. “Across the country, technical and vocational schools are training the next generation to fill manufacturing and industrial jobs that will increase our competitive edge and grow the middle class,” said Moulton. “Currently, many of these schools cannot expand their classes due to financial constraints – additional cuts will only marginalize these vital education institutions further. Investing in education is investing in our economy and our future.” The second amendment offered by Moulton will restore funding for the Department of Veterans Affairs to the President’s requested level of $1.9 billion for FY16 and ensure that the services provided to our veterans will never be at risk in the event of a government shutdown. “Protecting our veterans is not an option, it is our duty,” said Moulton “We owe to past and present service members to provide them with quality health care, education and job training, and long-term treatment they have earned through their service to our nation.” ###
03.17.2015	Congressman Moulton Statement on House Republican Budget March 17th, 2015 Washington, D.C. – Today, House Budget Committee Republicans released their alternative to President Barack Obama’s budget. Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA), a member of the House Budget Committee, released the following statement: “A budget is a reflection of values and priorities. Unfortunately, this is not a budget that aligns with my values. This budget neglects our crumbling infrastructure, it leaves kids – especially those growing up in poverty – with an unjust education system, and it fails to invest in critical programs for our veterans. “In the coming days I will work to find areas of common ground with my Republican colleagues and offer amendments that I believe will improve this budget. It is my hope that we reach an agreement that I can support.” Tomorrow, as a member of the House Budget Committee, Congressman Moulton will participate in a mark-up of the Republican budget during which he will offer amendments to improve the budget for students, veterans, and working families. ###
03.05.2015	After Months of Pressure, NOAA Adopts Sector Proposal on Cod Fishing Restrictions March 5th, 2015 Washington, D.C. – Today, following pressure by the Northeast Seafood Coalition (NSC), Gloucester Fishing Community Preservation Fund and Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA), the Northeast Oceanic Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) announced that it would adopt the sector-based proposal on cod fishing restrictions. The proposal, which has greater conservation benefits for the Gulf of Maine (GOM) cod while minimizing the economic hardships faced by small fishing businesses, reversed highly restrictive cod fishing regulations off GOM. In January, Congressman Moulton, joined by four Congressional colleagues, wrote a letter to NOAA urging them to reconsider the alternative proposal. “This is a major feat on behalf of the Gulf of Maine fishing community,” said Moulton. “The alternative plan is based on sound science that achieves a higher level of conservation while also giving the fisherman the ability to continue to fish. I’m grateful to NOAA for adopting this new proposal, which meets our shared goal of cod conservation and a sustainable fishing industry. Achieving this outcome was a true team effort, but it would not have been possible without the ingenuity of the Gloucester Fishing Community Preservation Fund and the leadership of the Northeast Seafood Coalition.” The Northeast Seafood Coalition, which represents the interests of northeast commercial fishing businesses, supported the efforts led by the Gloucester Fishing Community Preservation Fund to craft the alternative policy adopted by NOAA. “We would like to extend our appreciation to the Gloucester Fishing Community Preservation Fund and Sectors operating in the northeast groundfish fishery for working collaboratively to put forth the sector-based exemption request that was approved by NOAA,” said Jackie O’Delll, executive director at NSC. “We greatly appreciate NOAA’s reconsideration of a sector based alternative to the recent GOM cod interim action and are grateful for the support of members of the Massachusetts Congressional delegation on creative solutions that strike a better balance between cod conservation and the economic needs of the groundfish fishery. Thank you Congressman Moulton, Congressman Lynch, Congressman Neal, Congressman Keating and Congressman McGovern for your support for sound policy decision making that benefits the fish, the fishermen and all businesses and communities that depend upon a sustainable groundfish fishery.” ###
03.03.2015	Moulton Joins Mass Delegation Writing Letter to FEMA March 3rd, 2015 Washington, DC – On March 3, 2015, Congressman Moulton joined fellow Representatives from the Massachusetts Delegation along with Senators Warren and Markey in sending a letter to Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Regional Administrator Paul Ford urging the agency to support the Commonwealth’s disaster recovery efforts. The historic snowfall accumulations of the last several weeks have resulted in significant disaster management and recovery costs, draining Massachusetts Emergency Management Agency’s (MEMA) disaster fund. In the letter, the Massachusetts delegation requests that FEMA approve Governor Charlie Baker’s request for a Presidential Disaster Declaration and support the Preliminary Damage Assessment Process. The letter notes the increased flood risk due to melting snow, highlighting the particular risk to coastal communities including those throughout the sixth district. Click the link below to view the letter in PDF form: FEMA Federal Flood Risk MA Delegation Letter
02.26.2015	Congressman Moulton Names Swampscott Resident Rick Jakious District Director February 26th, 2015 Salem, MA – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) named Swampscott resident Rick Jakious his district director. Jakious assumes the role on Monday, March 9th and will oversee activities in the 39 cities and towns across Massachusetts’ sixth congressional district. Since 2012, Jakious has served as the CEO of the Massachusetts Nonprofit Network. In this capacity he has led statewide efforts to strengthen the state’s nearly 35,000 nonprofit organizations, which employ one in six Massachusetts workers. For the 13 years prior, he held local and national leadership roles with City Year, an education focused nonprofit based in Boston. Jakious also served as adistrict staff member and campaign manager to Congressman Brian Baird (D-WA). He is a graduate of the University of Massachusetts, Amherst, and lives in Swampscott with his wife and two young sons. “I am incredibly proud to have assembled such a talented team who hail from across the district and share my commitment to serving this community,” said Moulton. “Rick brings considerable experience from the nonprofit and public sectors, and he is passionate about improving the lives of the families in the district that he also calls home. I am looking forward to working with the entire staff to meet the needs of families across the sixth district.” ”I admire Congressman Moulton’s example of thoughtful, principled servant leadership and I am inspired by his vision for our congressional district,” said Jakious. “It is a great honor and responsibility to work with the citizens of this district to help make that vision a reality.” Joining Jakious in the district office are communications director Carrie Rankin, along with district representatives Jennifer Migliore, of Saugus; Morgan Bell, of Gloucester; and Lucas Santos, of Lowell. Meet the District Team Rick Jakious, district director, was the Chief Executive Officer of the Massachusetts Nonprofit Network. Prior, Rick played critical leadership roles over 13 years at City Year, Inc., helping to establish a program in Seattle, Washington; turn around its founding site in Boston, Massachusetts; and refresh its flagship national corporate sponsorship program. Rick has also served in several roles with U.S. Representative Brian Baird, including Northern District Director and manager of the Congressman’s successful 2004 campaign. He is an active volunteer with RAW Artworks in Lynn, MA and the John F. Kennedy Presidential Library. Rick resides in Swampscott, Massachusetts with his wife, a middle school math teacher, and two young boys. He is a graduate of the University of Massachusetts, Amherst. Carrie Rankin, communications director, brings more than a decade of political and communications experience. She previously served as the senior vice president of strategic communications at Liberty Square Group. Prior, she was the national communications director at Teach For America and spent seven years in Washington, D.C., working in thecommunications offices for John Kerry’s 2004 presidential campaign, then-U.S. Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi, Patrick Murphy’s campaign in Pennsylvania’s Eighth Congressional District and the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee. She lives in Concord with her husband and young son. Jennifer Migliore, district representative, is a lifelong resident of Saugus. Migliore worked on the Congressman’s campaign as a member of his finance team. Prior, she worked for the campaigns of Senator Elizabeth Warren and Attorney General candidate Warren Tolman. Migliore graduated cum lade from Wellesley College in 2014 with a double major in American Studies and Spanish. During her senior year at Wellesley, she led the softball team to a 2014 NEWMAC Conference Championship and an NCAA RegionalAppearance. Morgan Bell, district representative, grew up in Gloucester. Bell previously worked as a campaign coordinator for State Representative Ann-Margaret Ferrante’s Re-Election Campaign. She graduated in May 2014 from Wheaton College (MA) with a B.A. in Political Science. She was a four-year Varsity Tennis Player at Wheaton. Lucas Santos, district representative, was born in Curitba, Brazil, and grew up in Lowell. Prior, Santos worked on the campaigns of Congressman Seth Moulton, Don Berwick’s and Senator Elizabeth Warren. He also also interned for Congressman Michael Capuano in his Washington D.C. Office. Having migrated to this country himself, he is passionate about helping people navigate the oftentimes complex immigration process. Santos will serve as the office’s chief immigration caseworker. He is a graduate of the University of Massachusetts, and resides in Lowell. ###
02.20.2015	Congressman Moulton Returns From Weeklong Congressional Trip to Iraq, Afghanistan February 20th, 2015 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA), returned from a weeklong, bipartisan House Armed Services Committee Congressional Delegation to five countries in Asia and the Middle East, including the Iraq, Afghanistan, Jordan, United Arab Emirates, and Kuwait. Moulton served four tours of duty with the Marines in Iraq between 2003 and 2008. This was his first trip back to the region since his final deployment. On the Congressional Delegation, Moulton met with key regional leaders including Afghan President Ashraf Ghani, Iraqi President Fuad Masum, King Abdullah II of Jordan, as well as numerous ambassadors and military leaders stationed across the region. On February 11th, President Barack Obama sent Congress an official request for war authorization against ISIL in Iraq and Syria. Congress will begin to debate the draft authorization this week. Prior to the trip, Moulton stressed that to gain his support, the President would need to present a clear strategy that is “led by political and diplomatic efforts to unify and empower a local coalition to defeat ISIL, supported by American military assistance—not the other way around.” Today, upon returning from the region, Moulton reiterated the need for a political strategy. “After meetings with leaders from across the Middle East, it is even more clear to me how critical it is that we defeat ISIL,” said Moulton. “I continue to believe that the best way stabilize the Middle East is to provide the Iraqi government with diplomatic and political support and empower Iraqi leaders to take on this fight. I look forward to working with President Obama, Secretary Kerry, and other U.S. and military leaders to identify and implement a strategy that will defeat ISIL and empower the Iraqi government.” Moulton joined Representatives Brad Ashford (D-NE), Elise Stefanik (R-NY) and Joe Wilson (R-SC) on the Congressional Delegation. They departed on Friday, February 13, and returned Friday, February 20. ###
02.12.2015	Congressman Moulton Releases Statement on the President’s Request for Military Authorization against ISIL February 12th, 2015 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-Mass.), released a statement following the President’s request for Congress to authorize a three-year military operation against the terrorist group, the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL). “ISIL is a national security threat to the United States, and we must have a strategy to defeat them. I believe the only way to ensure the defeat of ISIL in the long-term is for local forces, supported politically by moderate regional governments, to lead this fight and take ownership of their own future. “I am not ready to support an authorization for military force until the Administration presents a comprehensive strategy to ensure long-term success. The strategy should be led by political and diplomatic efforts to unify and empower a local coalition to defeat ISIL, supported by American military assistance—not the other way around. “In the days and weeks ahead, I look forward to working with members of Congress on both sides of the aisle, with the President, and with our diplomatic and military leaders to protect our national security and keep faith with all the troops who have already sacrificed so much for our country in Iraq and elsewhere across the globe.” ###
02.03.2015	Congressman Moulton Opposes Repeal of Affordable Care Act February 3rd, 2015 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-Mass.) voted against a bill to repeal the patient protections and cost savings of the Affordable Care Act. The legislation passed the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 239-186. This is the 56th time the House has voted to repeal or undermine the Affordable Care Act. “In Massachusetts’ Sixth Congressional District, repealing the Affordable Care Act means taking away health care coverage from an estimated 12,000 residents, kicking 1,800 kids off their parent’s health insurance, and making 155,000 seniors pay more for preventative care,” said Moulton. “The Affordable Care Act is not a perfect law, but it’s made a real difference for working families in Massachusetts. Rather than voting again and again to repeal the law’s important protections, we ought to work together to fix the law’s problems and ensure that every American has the right to quality health care.” ###
02.02.2015	Congressman Moulton Releases Statement on President Obama Budget February 2nd, 2015 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-Mass.), a member of the House Budget Committee, released the following statement on President Obama’s Fiscal Year 2016 Budget. “As the United States navigates the domestic and foreign policy challenges of the 21st Century, Congress must make investments that will grow the middle class and support America’s job creators. I am pleased to see that President Obama’s Budget seeks to strike an appropriate balance between deficit reduction and investing in our infrastructure, early childhood education, and veterans’ services. As the Budget Committee begins its work to review the President’s proposal and write the federal budget, I pledge to work collaboratively with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to set America’s fiscal agenda on a sustainable path.” ###
01.27.2015	Rep. Moulton: Modern Trade Policies Must Support American Workers and Grow our Economy January 27th, 2015 Washington, D.C. – Congressman Seth Moulton (D-Mass.) sent a letter to President Obama and United States Trade Representative Mike Froman calling for modernized trade policies that enhance economic opportunity in the United States and protect American jobs from unfair competition abroad. Moulton was joined by U.S. Representatives Pete Aguilar (D-Calif.) and Norma Torres (D-Calif.) in expressing concern with the so-called “fast track” legislation and the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade negotiation. “Trade – done the right way – can help our communities and create jobs. We are keenly aware that unfair trade policies can be devastating to our constituents and can send U.S. jobs overseas,” the lawmakers wrote. “We share the view of our constituents that if you play by the rules, you should have a fair shot at the American dream. That is the American way, and our trade agreements must ensure economic opportunity for future generations. “[F]ar too often our nation fails to support many communities that have seen jobs move overseas. Congress has a fundamental obligation to provide input on trade agreements and ensure that our trade agreements achieve appropriate, positive results for the American people.” The full text of the lawmakers’ letter is below: Dear President Obama and Ambassador Froman: As our country continues to work on international trade agreements, we write to voice our support for trade policies that enhance economic opportunity at home, protect American jobs from unfair competition abroad, and ensure the United States’ position as a global leader for decades to come. First, we are very concerned about multiple aspects of Trade Promotion Authority (TPA), or ‘fast track’ and the Trans-Pacific Partnership that is still under negotiation. We are opposed to the old, out-dated model for TPA that passed in 2002 and we want to note our concerns with the Trade Promotion Authority legislation introduced as the Bipartisan Congressional Trade Priorities Act of 2014. We appreciate the need to balance the Administration’s prerogative to negotiate international agreements with Congress’ responsibility to oversee commerce and protect our constituents’ economic well-being. However, we believe this legislation lacked sufficient guarantees to ensure Congress’ voice in shaping the substance of international trade agreements negotiated by the Administration. Our concern is that previous versions of TPA legislation did not ensure sufficient input of our constituents’ concerns about the labor, environmental, and human rights protections that must be essential in the trade deals you are currently negotiating. We have great confidence in American workers’ ability to compete in the international economy so long as we ensure they are on a level playing field, and it is our responsibility to ensure that playing field is as level as it can be. Poorly drafted trade agreements can have devastating effects on our constituents. Although certain American businesses have benefited from new markets open to us as a result of trade agreements, far too often our nation fails to support many communities that have seen jobs move overseas. Congress has a fundamental obligation to provide input on trade agreements and ensure that our trade agreements achieve appropriate, positive results for the American people. We believe our trade policies must accomplish two critical goals: growing our economy and creating new jobs. We cannot support trade agreements that outsource jobs to countries with grossly inadequate labor protections, wages that do not meet basic living standards, and working conditions that are outright dangerous. Similarly, we cannot accept trade agreements with weak or nonexistent environmental protections that allow companies to escape responsible standards here in the United States by shifting manufacturing overseas to countries that lack basic protections. Worse, outsourcing manufacturing jobs to these nations can flood the American market with goods produced by underpaid workers in dangerous conditions, further exacerbating the unfairness for those businesses that do stay in the United States. Simply put, trade policies must reflect our national economic interests and safeguard Congress’ voice in this process. We are concerned by reports of ongoing negotiations for the Trans-Pacific Partnership and believe that — especially as the Administration comes closer to a proposed agreement — greater transparency should be permitted. We urge you to release sufficient information to all interested parties so that debate on the merits of the proposal can move from the theoretical to the facts. We believe that we cannot have an honest debate on the merits of the Trans-Pacific Partnership until Members of Congress and stakeholders are able to actually read the full text well before it is signed. As negotiations continue, we also encourage the Administration to consider appropriate avenues for non-governmental interested parties, such as labor and environmental protection organizations, to have a formal voice that is either identical or parallel to the proposed investor-state dispute settlements. Though you have communicated with labor and environmental organizations, we encourage a mechanism by which interested parties that are not corporations have at least similar rights for redress as granted to corporations. We also note our strongest support for the Trade Adjustment Assistance Act of 2014. Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) programs ensure that small businesses, manufacturing workers, farmers, and many others are able to better adjust to a rapidly changing global economy. Congress must pass a strong reauthorization of TAA that supports American workers and businesses and preserves the program into the future. Further, it is possible that alternative procedures to ‘fast track’ legislation which in 2014 would have allowed for stronger labor and environmental protections to be added by Congress could, today in 2015, instead result in weakened protections under a Republican-controlled Congress. Improvements that could have been passed in a previous Congress face significant hurdles today in the 114th Congress. If given the opportunity, today’s Congress is more likely to remove, rather than strengthen, environmental and labor standards negotiated by the Administration. We look forward to meeting with you to discuss how we can safeguard the ability of Congress to protect and strengthen these provisions as the process moves forward, and to ensure we enact agreements that enjoy broad support. Trade — done the right way — can help our communities and create jobs. We are keenly aware that unfair trade policies can be devastating to our constituents and can send U.S. jobs overseas. We urge you to increase transparency in this process and involve more stakeholders to help produce trade policies that Members of Congress can support — policies that create new American jobs, strengthen labor and environmental standards, grow our economy, and ensure our standing in the world for years to come. We share the view of our constituents that if you play by the rules, you should have a fair shot at the American dream. That is the American way, and our trade agreements must ensure economic opportunity for future generations. We look forward to meeting with you soon to discuss our concerns and the status of negotiations of international trade agreements. Sincerely, Congressman Seth Moulton Congressman Pete Aguilar Congresswoman Norma Torres ###
01.21.2015	Congressman Moulton Named to House Budget Committee January 21st, 2015 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-Mass.) received an appointment to the influential House Budget Committee. The panel is responsible for developing the annual budget, which provides a framework for federal spending and revenue levels and the fiscal policy of the United States. Moulton was one of just two new Democratic Members of Congress selected to serve on the committee. “Writing a budget for the federal government is one of Congress’ most fundamental duties, and I’m honored my colleagues have entrusted me with this responsibility,” said Moulton. “As a member of the Budget Committee, I will fight for commonsense policies that promote job creation and a strong middle class in Massachusetts. We must continue to make critical investments in education, small businesses, and our infrastructure while responsibly reducing our deficit. I look forward to working with Chairman Price and Ranking Member Van Hollen to do just that.” Earlier this month, Moulton received a seat on the powerful House Armed Services Committee, which has jurisdiction over the defense and military policy of the United States. ###
01.20.2015	Congressman Moulton’s Statement on President Obama’s State of the Union Address January 20th, 2015 Washington, D.C. – Congressman Seth Moulton (D-Mass.) offered the following statement in response to President Barack Obama’s State of the Union address, delivered Tuesday evening on the Floor of the U.S. House of Representatives. Moulton was honored to have Ludia Modi, an AmeriCorps member from Lynn, as his guest. “It was an honor to watch President Obama deliver his sixth State of the Union address before Congress this evening,” said Moulton. “The President acknowledged that these have been tough economic times for our country and that, while more work needs to be done, we have come a long way. We are finally seeing people who have been out of work for extended periods find good paying jobs. But the reality is, Congress must do more to create the conditions for job growth and a stronger middle class. I look forward to working with the President and my Democratic and Republican colleagues to support the innovation, entrepreneurship, and hard work of the American people.” ###
01.19.2015	Congressman Moulton Invites AmeriCorps Volunteer From Lynn to Attend President’s State of the Union Address January 19th, 2015 Salem, Mass. – On the Martin Luther King, Jr. Day of Service, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-Mass.) announced that Ludia Modi, an AmeriCorps Fellow from Lynn, Mass., will be his guest at the President’s State of the Union address tomorrow evening. Through her AmeriCorps Fellowship, the 22-year-old Modi coordinates The Food Project, a local non-profit organization that recruits and educates youth to become leaders in sustainable agriculture and social justice. “I am thrilled that Ludia will join me tomorrow night as we listen to President Obama lay out his vision for the coming year,” said Moulton. “Martin Luther King, Jr. taught us that we all can make a difference because we all can serve. Ludia is living Dr. King’s legacy by dedicating her time and energy to making our community a better place. “Ludia and other national service volunteers across the country remind us every day of the importance of putting others before ourselves in order to make positive change. That’s a lesson worth remembering as the 114th Congress begins.” Modi will watch the President’s State of the Union address from the Gallery of the U.S. House of Representatives tomorrow night at 9:00pm ET. ###
01.14.2015	Congressman Moulton Offers First Amendment on House Floor January 14th, 2015 Washington, D.C. – Today, in his first remarks on the Floor of the U.S. House of Representatives, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-Mass.) offered an amendment that would prohibit individuals convicted of providing financial assistance to terrorist organizations, or state sponsors of terrorism, from taking advantage of certain financial, securities, and banking laws. For the video of Moulton’s remarks, click here. “The people of Massachusetts’ 6th District didn’t send me to Congress to find areas where Republicans and Democrats disagree. They sent me to Congress to get things done. Preventing those who have aided and abetted terrorists from taking advantage of our financial system should be an area of bipartisan agreement,” Moulton said after the House failed to pass his amendment. “I will continue to work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to find bipartisan, commonsense solutions that move our country forward.” The full text of Moulton’s remarks as prepared for delivery are below: This is the final amendment to the bill which will not kill the bill or send it back to committee. If adopted, the bill will immediately proceed to final passage as amended. From Paris to Boston and New York to London, we have seen in recent weeks and years that the threat of terrorism in our world remains constant. All Americans must remain vigilant and this Congress must do everything in its power to prevent another terrorist attack. History shows that leveraging America’s economic strength is one of our nation’s best tools to combat the scourge of terrorism. We have forced rogue regimes like Iran to the negotiating table with strong economic sanctions. We’ve punished bad actors in Russia and North Korea by cutting off their access to global financial markets. And, we ought to ensure that no one convicted of aiding and abetting terrorists or state sponsors of terror can take advantage of our financial system. That’s what my amendment does. It simply makes clear that no one who has been convicted of providing assistance – either directly or indirectly – to a terrorist organization or a state sponsor of terrorism can make use of the exemptions in the underlying bill. The bill before us today is a complex piece of legislation that includes measures that previously passed this House with large, bipartisan support as well as other more controversial provisions. The American people did not send us to Congress to find areas where we disagree. Our constituents sent us to Congress to get things done for all Americans. We could have moved forward today with a legislative package that includes commonsense reforms that protect consumers and create the conditions for economic growth. Reasonable people can disagree on the merits of this bill. But, we all should be able to agree that those who support terrorists and state sponsors of terrorism should never use our financial system to their benefit. My amendment prevents this from happening. I urge a yes vote on the Motion to Recommit, and I yield back the balance of my time. ###
01.12.2015	Congressman Moulton Reacts to Passage of Keystone XL Pipeline Act January 12th, 2015 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 3, the Keystone XL Pipeline Act, by a vote of 266 to 153. “Climate change is one of the most important global issues we face, and Congress must act to protect our planet for future generations and ensure a sustainable energy supply. “Unfortunately, the Keystone XL Pipeline Act failed to strike the right balance between energy development and environmental protection. The bill was a missed opportunity for members on both sides of the aisle to have a thoughtful debate about how best to meet the energy needs of our nation. For those reasons, I opposed the legislation. “For too long we have subsidized the production of fossil fuels and failed to make the necessary investments in clean, renewable energy. Moving forward, I am committed to working with members on both sides of the aisle to find solutions to our energy challenges.” ###
01.09.2015	Congressman Moulton Named to House Armed Services Committee January 9th, 2015 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) received a coveted seat on the House Armed Services Committee, which has jurisdiction over defense and military policy. The full Democratic Caucus will vote next week to formalize the committee assignments. “I am humbled and grateful that my colleagues in the Massachusetts delegation and the Democratic Caucus have placed their faith in me to serve on the House Armed Services Committee,” said Congressman Moulton. “As a Marine who served four tours in Iraq, from leading a platoon in the invasion to working directly for General Petraeus, I am eager to get to work on behalf of our men and women in uniform and our nation’s veterans.” “Northeastern Massachusetts is home to more defense industry jobs than any other part of the state, including 3,100 at the General Electric jet engine plant in Lynn and more than 5,500 at Hanscom Air Force Base in Bedford. Serving on the Armed Services panel will help me fight for these good-paying jobs and increase economic opportunities in the Sixth Congressional District.” ###
01.06.2015	Congressman Seth Moulton Sworn-in to 114th Congress January 6th, 2015 Washington, D.C. – Today, on the Floor of the United States House of Representatives, Congressman Seth Moulton (MA-6) was sworn in to the 114th Congress. Earlier in the day, Congressman Moulton volunteered with staff and supporters at Martha’s Table where he prepared meals to go out on McKenna’s Wagon, a food truck that serves a hot meals across D.C. He also held an open house at his D.C. Office, followed by a reception at the Hawk ‘n Dove, a D.C. restaurant. “I am humbled by the opportunity to represent 6th district families in Congress,” said Moulton. “There is a lot of work to do to bring good paying jobs to the district, improve educational opportunities for all children, take care of our veterans, and break the gridlock in Washington so we can begin to do the work of the American people. I am eager to get to work and ready to hit the ground running. “I have long said that my top priority is serving the families in this district. In the coming weeks, I will be holding office hours and town hall meetings, I will be going to communities across the district and I hope to hear your ideas for our district, and specific issues with which my team can help you. I was elected to serve this community; I hope you will stop by my office, or contact me or my team to let us know how we can best do just that.” ###
