04.02.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Reps. Debbie Dingell (D-MI) and Don Beyer (D-VA) led a coalition of 94 Democrats in a letter to the House Appropriations Committee calling for robust funding for the Endangered Species Act (ESA) listing, planning and consultation, species conservation and restoration and recovery process. The lawmakers cited the need for continued support for the ESA process due to the 480 U.S. listed species that still lack recovery plans, along with the hundreds of species that receive zero federal or state recovery funding. The Members wrote: “As you consider the fiscal year 2020 Interior and Commerce, Justice, Science Appropriations, we urge you to support robust funding for Endangered Species Act (ESA) listing, planning and consultation, species conservation and restoration, and recovery process, all of which have been systemically and severely underfunded for many years. “In enacting the Endangered Species Act of 1973, Congress recognized that imperiled species of wildlife, fish, and plants “are of esthetic, ecological, educational, historical, recreational, and scientific value to the Nation and its people.” The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) and the National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) employ, to great effect, a suite of mechanisms to carry out the law’s aim of conserving endangered and threatened species and the habitat upon which they depend. Their efforts have successfully prevented the extinction of 99 percent of all species listed as threatened or endangered under the Act. … “The need for increased recovery funding is evident from the more than 480 U.S. listed species that lack recovery plans and the hundreds of species that receive zero dollars in recovery funding from any agency – federal or state. Congressional appropriations for recovery and consultation have simply not kept pace with the number of listed species or the complex challenges of conservation in a world facing the consequences of climate change. Inadequate funding not only puts at risk the recovery of threatened and endangered species and conservation of their habitats; it also impedes FWS and NMFS’s ability to apply the best scientific knowledge available in a timely review of listing decisions for species in need of protection.” A signed copy of the letter is available here. ###
03.28.2019	TRENTON, MI – Today, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (D-MI) made the following statement after DTE announced they would be closing their plant in Trenton one year earlier than expected – in 2022 instead of 2023. “Transitioning to a clean energy future will make our communities healthier places to live and make them more sustainable going forward. But transitions are never easy. In this case, Trenton relies on the tax base from the plant and we must ensure that communities have the resources they need to provide for an increased quality of life for their residents. Communities like Trenton depend on every last dime to provide vital services and enrich shared spaces. Every challenge is also an opportunity, and this transition provides us the chance to come together as a community and continue working with stakeholders on these issues to make Downrivers thrive.” ###
03.28.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Bipartisan members of the Michigan congressional delegation, including U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Gary Peters (D-MI) and Representatives Jack Bergman (MI-01), Debbie Dingell (MI-12), Dan Kildee (MI-05), Brenda Lawrence (MI-14), Andy Levin (MI-09), Elissa Slotkin (MI-08), Haley Stevens (MI-11), and Rashida Tlaib (MI-13), today introduced legislation to address contamination from chemicals containing per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS). The PFAS Detection Act provides the U.S. Geological Survey with $45 million to develop new advanced technologies to detect PFAS and then to conduct nationwide sampling for PFAS in the environment. “People across Michigan who have been exposed to PFAS chemicals are living with incredible uncertainty about the impacts on their health,” said Senator Stabenow. “We need to know more about these potentially harmful chemicals so that we can address contamination moving forward.” “Too many families across Michigan have had their lives irreparably damaged by PFAS contamination,” said Senator Peters. “As we continue to learn more about these hazardous chemicals, it has become evident that PFAS is a serious threat to communities across the nation. By directing the USGS to uncover and pinpoint high concentration of PFAS, this commonsense, bipartisan legislation would help federal, state and local government agencies properly address this emerging health risk.” “We must continue to aggressively clean up PFAS chemicals in our communities and identify other sites where contamination could pose a risk to public health,” said Congressman Kildee. “This bipartisan bill, supported by Republicans and Democrats, is an important step to make sure that communities in Michigan and across the country can identify PFAS contamination sites and take appropriate action. Ensuring clean drinking water and protecting public health should not be a partisan issue.” “Every family deserves the peace of mind in knowing their water is safe for consumption, but limited data regarding breadth and scope of PFAS contamination has left many without this assurance,” said Congressman Bergman. “Our bipartisan legislation takes the necessary steps to identify areas affected by PFAS chemicals, and allows for appropriate remediation plans to be set in place. I will continue working with my colleagues to help enhance community health as we gain a better understanding of the work ahead of us.” “We can’t respond or clean up PFAS contamination if we don’t know about it,” said Congresswoman Dingell. “Testing and knowing the extent of PFAS in our nation’s water sources will allow us to best respond to this hazardous chemical. PFAS is a clear threat to human health and our environment and we need an all-hands-on-deck response.” “The ongoing threat of PFAS contamination continues to endanger the safety and health of our communities,” said Congresswoman Lawrence. “This bill provides the necessary supports to ensure our water is clean and our environment is free of contaminants. I’m proud to support this bill with my colleagues today and ensure a safer environment for generations to come.” “Access to clean, safe drinking water is a right deserved by all,” said Congressman Levin. “To get PFAS chemicals out of our water and to protect our communities from contamination, we have to invest in detection. This issue deserves bipartisan attention, and I’m proud to work with my Democratic and Republican colleagues to make water safe for Michiganders and all Americans.” “We need to start treating environmental security like homeland security,” said Congresswoman Slotkin. “When families across Michigan and across the country learn that PFAS may be in their children’s schools and in their ground water, that’s a threat to their health, safety and way of life. I’m proud to help introduce a bipartisan bill that provides funding to test for PFAS so that we can get ahead of this public health threat and keep families safe.” “We need to understand the full extent of PFAS contamination in our communities so we can prevent these potentially dangerous chemicals from jeopardizing public health,” said Congresswoman Stevens. “The bipartisan PFAS Detection Act is an important step toward addressing this issue and protecting Michiganders.” “Our government should be about people and getting answers for our families,” said Congresswoman Tlaib. “I’m glad to join this bipartisan legislation to ensure that we know what is in our drinking water – only then can we take bold action to make sure our drinking water is clean and safe for everyone. The discovery of PFAS in the water source of many communities has been deeply concerning, and we cannot work to get clean water until we have solid, sound data.” There are more than 3,000 chemicals containing PFAS but only around 30 of these substances can be detected using current technology. The data collected by the USGS could help assess the health and environmental impacts of exposure to PFAS chemicals and determine how to address contamination moving forward. U.S. Senators Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Richard Burr (R-NC), Mike Rounds (R-SD), and Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Representatives Brendan Boyle (PA-02), Madeleine Dean (PA-04), Antonio Delgado (NY-19), Brian Fitzpatrick (PA-01), Jared Huffman (CA-02), Ro Khanna (CA-17), Ben Ray Lujan (NM-03), Chris Pappas (NH-01), Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18), and Peter Welch (VT-AL) also cosponsored the legislation. ###
03.28.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Representatives Debbie Dingell (D-MI), Dan Kildee (D-MI), along with Mike Kelly (R-PA) and Mike Gallagher (R-WI) led a bipartisan group of their colleagues in urging House Leaders to fully fund the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI) which works to protect, restore, and maintain the Great Lakes ecosystem. Along with Dingell and Kildee, the letter to the House Appropriations Committee was signed by Michigan Representatives Fred Upton (R-MI), Tim Walberg (R-MI), Bill Huizenga (R-MI), Jack Bergman (R-MI), Paul Mitchell (R-MI), Andy Levin (D-MI), Elissa Slotkin (D-MI), Haley Stevens (D-MI), and Rashida Tlaib (D-MI). “The federal government must continue to partner with our region to address the challenges the Great Lakes face,” the lawmakers wrote. “GLRI resources have supplemented agency budgets and funded coordinated efforts to protect and restore the Great Lakes ecosystem. We must ensure this work continues. Halting or reducing this commitment would reverse years of progress, dramatically reducing the GLRI’s impact, and jeopardize the environmental and economic health of the region for generations to come.” You can read a fully copy of the letter here. “To that end, we urge you to continue this vial investment in the economic and environmental health of the Great Lakes by including at least $300 million for the GLRI in the Fiscal Year 2020 Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations bill.” The GLRI is an inter-agency program designed to address the most significant problems in the Great Lakes. The Great Lakes are the source of drinking water for 40 million people, and hold 90 percent of our nation’s supply of fresh water. Jobs, recreation, and tourism all depend upon a healthy and flourishing Great Lakes ecosystem. Yet invasive species, toxic pollution, growing dead zones, and beach closures threaten the health and productivity of these irreplaceable bodies of water. ###
03.27.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (D-MI) and the Health Subcommittee passed a dozen bills – some bipartisan – that will lower prescription drug prices and make healthcare more affordable and accessible for Americans. The bills increase availability of generic, low-cost prescription drugs by reducing barriers to market entry, increasing competition, and making the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) more transparent. In addition, the Subcommittee passed bills to strengthen and improve the individual marketplace for health insurance and to make it easier for people living with pre-existing conditions to access quality, affordable healthcare. “Americans are going into bankruptcy because of the cost of their prescription drugs,” said Dingell. “No one should have to choose between taking a pill or eating, or even worse cutting their pills in half, in order to afford their drugs or treatment if they get sick. Getting generics to market faster and loosening drug manufacturers stranglehold on patients will lower costs. We owe it to the American people to do what we can to lower the cost of drugs. Dingell continued, “Every American deserves access to quality, affordable healthcare. The bills advanced by the committee will help consumers navigate the individual market and find plans that work for their family and their pocketbook. For the millions of Americans living with pre-existing conditions, access to affordable care is necessary and life-saving. Patients expect their insurance to cover essential health benefits, and we cannot go back to the days when insurance companies could deny care that was medically necessary. We must keep moving forward to strengthen and improve healthcare in our country.” Wednesday, the Health Subcommittee considered and passed 12 bills. Dingell is a cosponsor of each of these bills. Proposals to Lower the Cost of Prescription Drugs: H.R. 1781, the “Payment Commission Data Act of 2019,” introduced by Reps. Buddy Carter (R-GA), Tom O’Halleran (D-AZ), Tom Rice (R-SC), Jimmy Panetta (D-CA), Greg Gianforte (R-MT), and Peter Welch (D-VT), provides the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission (MedPAC) and the Medicaid and CHIP Payment and Access Commission (MACPAC) with access to drug pricing and rebate data in order for these independent, non-partisan commissions to help Congress better understand the true costs of prescription drugs to consumers and taxpayers. H.R. 938, the "Bringing Low-cost Options and Competition while Keeping Incentives for New Generics (BLOCKING) Act of 2019," introduced by Reps. Kurt Schrader (D-OR) and Buddy Carter (R-GA), would discourage parking of 180-day exclusivity by a first generic applicant that is blocking the approval of other generics. H.R. 1520, the "Purple Book Continuity Act of 2019," introduced by Subcommittee Chair Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA), would codify publication of the patents of approved biological products in the Purple Book in a similar format and with similar requirements to the Orange Book, specify that the Purple Book should be published electronically on FDA’s website and updated routinely, and direct FDA to consider the types of patents that should be listed in the Purple Book. H.R. 1503, the "Orange Book Transparency Act of 2019," introduced by Rep. Robin Kelly (D-IL), would help to ensure that the Orange Book is accurate and up-to-date, by requiring manufacturers to share complete and timely information with FDA, as well as ensuring that patents listed in the Orange Book are relevant to the approved drug product. Patents found to be invalid through a court decision or a decision by the Patent Trial and Appeal Board would be required to be removed promptly. H.R. 1499, the "Protecting Consumer Access to Generic Drugs Act of 2019," introduced by Rep. Bobby Rush (D-IL), would make it illegal for brand-name and generic drug manufacturers to enter into agreements in which the brand-name drug manufacturer pays the generic manufacturer to keep a generic equivalent off the market. H.R. 965, the "Creating and Restoring Equal Access to Equivalent Samples (CREATES) Act of 2019," introduced by Reps. David Cicilline (D-RI), Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI), Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Doug Collins (R-GA), Peter Welch (D-VT), and David McKinley (R-WV), would establish a process by which generic manufacturers could obtain sufficient quantities of brand drug samples for testing thereby deterring gaming of safety protocols that brand manufacturers use to delay or impede generic entry. Proposals to Lower Health Care Costs and Reverse ACA Sabotage: H.R.1385, the “State Allowance for a Variety of Exchanges (SAVE) Act”, introduced by Rep. Andy Kim (D-NJ) and Rep. Brian Fitzpatrick (R-PA), would provide states with $200 million in federal funds to establish state-based Marketplaces. Under current law, federal funds are no longer available for states to set up state-based Marketplaces. H.R.1386, the “Expand Navigators’ Resources for Outreach, Learning, and Longevity (ENROLL) Act”, introduced by Rep. Kathy Castor (D-FL), would provide $100 million annually for the Federally-Facilitated Marketplace (FFM) navigator program. The bill would reinstate the requirement that there be at least two navigator entities in each state and would require HHS to ensure that navigator grants are awarded to entities with demonstrated capacity to carry out the duties specified in the Affordable Care Act. The bill would also prohibit HHS from considering whether a navigator entity has demonstrated how it will provide information to individuals relating to association health plans or short-term, limited-duration insurance plans. H.R. 1425, the “State Health Care Premium Reduction Act”, introduced by Reps. Angie Craig (D-MN) and Scott Peters (D-CA), would provide $10 billion annually to states to establish a state reinsurance program or use the funds to provide financial assistance to reduce out-of-pocket costs for individuals enrolled in qualified health plans. The bill also requires CMS to establish and implement a reinsurance program in states that do not apply for federal funding under the bill. H.R. 987, the “Marketing and Outreach Restoration to Empower Health Education Act of 2019” or the “MORE Health Education Act”, introduced by Rep. Lisa Blunt Rochester (D-DE), would restore outreach and enrollment funding to assist consumers in signing up for health care, which has been slashed by the Trump Administration; H.R. 986, the “Protecting Americans with Preexisting Conditions Act of 2019”, introduced by Rep. Ann M. Kuster (D-NH), would require the Trump Administration to rescind the Section 1332 guidance of the ACA promulgated in October of 2018 that would undermine the law’s consumer protections. H.R. 1010, To provide that the rule entitled “Short-Term, Limited Duration Insurance” shall have no force or effect, introduced by Rep. Kathy Castor (D-FL), would reverse the Trump Administration’s expansion of junk insurance plans, also known as short-term, limited-duration insurance plans. ###
03.27.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the House of Representatives passed the Paycheck Fairness Act to give women the tools they need to ensure they earn equal pay for equal work. Dingell is an original cosponsor of the legislation that strengthens and closes loopholes in the Equal Pay Act by holding employers accountable for discriminatory practices, ending the practice of pay secrecy, easing workers’ ability to individually or jointly challenge pay discrimination, and strengthening the available remedies for wronged employees. “Wage fairness is not only a women’s issue, it’s a family and economic issue. Congress took a major step toward empowering women in the workplace and raising household incomes by passing the Paycheck Fairness Act,” said Dingell. “If you do the same work, you should earn the same wage – it’s as simple as that. Equal pay for equal work. The Paycheck Fairness Act gives women and employers the tools they need to end gender wage discrimination. Now it is time for the Senate do the right thing and pass this commonsense bill that helps women succeed, supports working families, and puts an end to workplace discrimination.” More than five decades after the passage of the Equal Pay Act of 1963, Michigan women still only earn 78 cents for every dollar earned by their male counterparts. The national average is 80 centers for every dollar. The gap is even wider for women of color, with African-American women making 63 cents on the dollar, and Hispanic women making just 53 cents for every dollar earned by a man. ###
03.26.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the Communications and Technology Subcommittee marked up and passed the Save the Internet Act which restores popular, bipartisan net neutrality protections for consumers and small businesses, after the Trump Administration ended these vital protections last year. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (D-MI) is an original cosponsor of the legislation introduced by Subcommittee Chairman Mike Doyle (D-PA). “The internet, even with all its faults and shortcomings, is still an amazing thing. It makes the earth smaller and can bring us all closer together. It helps loved ones stay in touch and involved with our lives even when we’re a thousand miles away,” said Dingell. “The internet exposes us to new ideas and other walks of life, allows students to study and research, gives us quick access to recipes and ingredients at the grocery store, and – in my case as a caregiver – helps us monitor the safety of someone you love. And gone are the days where a storefront is a requirement to open a business With the internet, almost any information is available at our fingertips, instantly, whenever we want or need it. And that is the reason we need Net Neutrality. Because if a loved one is homesick, or feeling the need to watch funny video on YouTube, anyone can pull out their phone or device and make that choice. The internet is great because it’s a reflection of trillions of those choices every day – the consumer is in control of what they see and when they see it – the only obstacles should be your battery percentage and your passcode.” The Save the Internet Act creates popular, bipartisan and targeted net neutrality protections, and codifies the FCC’s 2015 Open Internet Order similar to last year’s Congressional Review Act that passed the Senate and had bipartisan support in the House: Strengthening transparency protections, enacting specific rules against blocking, throttling, and paid prioritization, and empowering the FCC to investigate consumer and business complaints and fine internet service providers for violations of the Communications Act; Protecting consumers against unjust, unreasonable, and discriminatory practices, and promoting competition; Ensuring consumers can make informed decisions when shopping for internet plans; and Restoring the FCC’s authority to fund broadband access for rural communities, working Americans, veterans, seniors, students and disabled Americans. Dingell – a member of the Communications & Technology Subcommittee – is a steadfast advocate for protecting net neutrality and consumers’ digital protections. Last year, she spoke out against the FCC’s order to end net neutrality and led a resolution in the House that attempted to repeal the order. ###
03.26.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (D-MI) issued the following statement after the Trump Administration argued in court to strike down the entire Affordable Care Act, including eliminating protections for pre-existing conditions. “Protecting coverage for people living with pre-existing conditions isn’t a partisan debate – it’s life or death for millions of Americans,” said Dingell. “Every American has the right to quality, affordable healthcare. Too many Americans worry about going to the doctor because they don’t know if they can afford treatment if they are diagnosed. We must work together to strengthen coverage and lower healthcare costs. Our work is laid out for us. Improving healthcare for all Americans will improve the economy and make our communities healthier and happier. Dingell continued, “For years, my colleagues on both sides of the aisle agreed that people with pre-existing conditions deserve access to quality, affordable healthcare. Not high premiums or junk plans that don’t cover necessary care. We cannot go back to the days when people with high blood pressure, diabetes, heart issues, asthma, or a sinus condition – let alone cancer – could not buy or afford health insurance because they had a pre-existing condition. Almost every day, I am stopped by someone who is scared, worried, and concerned. Instead of moving backwards, we must strengthen the Affordable Care Act and expand access to healthcare for every American.” Tuesday, Dingell – a member of the Health Subcommittee – put her support behind legislation to protect people with pre-existing conditions, reverse the Trump Administration’s health care sabotage, and take new measures to lower health insurance premiums for families. The Undo Sabotage and Expand Affordability of Health Insurance Act expands assistance and support for Americans purchasing health insurance coverage through healthcare exchanges under the Affordable Care Act. The bill is being introduced by Energy and Commerce Chairman Frank Pallone, Education and Labor Chairman Bobby Scott, and Ways and Means Chairman Richard Neal. Dingell is a passionate advocate for improving healthcare. Last month she introduced Medicare for All which is bold legislation to guarantee healthcare coverage and establish a single payer system. Dingell consistently fought back against efforts to repeal the Affordable Care Act. Last Congress, Dingell worked with Rep. Buddy Carter (R-GA) on bipartisan legislation that removed the gag clause that prohibited pharmacists from telling a consumer when less expensive options to pay for prescription drugs may be available. ###
03.25.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – The House of Representatives passed a bill to make improvements and extend critical programs in Medicaid including two provisions led by Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (D-MI). Dingell is the lead cosponsor on provisions to help seniors and those with disabilities receive long-term services and supports in their homes and communities and temporarily extend spousal impoverishment protections for seniors on Medicaid. “When someone in the family needs long-term care, the system is complicated, confusing, and broken for families and caregivers. Programs like Money Follows the Person and protections against spousal impoverishment create better outcomes and have proven successful,” said Dingell. “While I am pleased these programs will be extended through the end of September and not allowed to lapse, this is only a partial victory. Both the Money Follows the Person program and Spousal Impoverishment protections need to be extended for the long-term, not a few months at a time. Seniors and individuals with disabilities deserve the peace of mind that these important provisions will be there for the long-term, and states need stability and certainty in order to fully implement these efforts.” The package of health bills passed by the House includes: An extension of the Money Follows the Person (MFP) Demonstration Program through the end of September, a highly effective program first authorized in 2005, which provides a way for elderly and disabled patients to move from institutional care to home or community-based services. An extension of spousal impoverishment protections for seniors who receive long-term care in their home or a community setting. This extension is also through the end of September. Dingell has introduced legislation to ensure the long-term success of these programs. Dingell introduce the bipartisan Ensuring Medicaid Provides Opportunities for Widespread Equity, Resources (EMPOWER) and Care Act with Brett Guthrie (R-KY) which extends the Money Follows the Person demonstration program for five years. Additionally Dingell and Fred Upton (R-MI) introduced the bipartisan Protecting Married Seniors from Impoverishment Act to permanently extend spousal impoverishment protections for Medicaid beneficiaries receiving long-term care in a home or community care setting. ###
03.22.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, on World Water Day, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (D-MI) was elected a co-chair of the Great Lakes Task Force, a bipartisan group of House and Senate members that work together to advocate for issues that preserve the Great Lakes and support the region. “The Great Lakes are not only a natural resource but a way of life that support communities throughout the region,” said Dingell. “Environmental threats such as Asian Carp, harmful algal blooms, PFAS, and climate change affect us all. Protecting the Great Lakes for future generations has never been a partisan issue. As co-chair of the Great Lakes Task Force, I will continue working for policies in a bipartisan manner that advance the region, promote economic development, and protect these treasured waters.” The Great Lakes Task force is co-chaired by Dingell, Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), Bill Huizenga (R-MI), Sean Duffy (R-WI) and in the Senate Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Rob Portman (R-OH). “The Great Lakes are an ecological treasure and a major economic driver for a region of 30 million people,” said Kaptur. “We are pleased Rep. Dingell was chosen by the caucus to serve as a Co-Chair of the Great Lakes Task Force. She truly understands the issues affecting the Great Lakes and I look forward to working with her closely.” The Great Lakes Task Force is a bipartisan group of House and Senate members who work together to enhance the economic and environmental health of the Great Lakes. They work together advocating for policies and programs that protect, enhance, and responsibly develop the Great Lakes and the region. More info on the Great Lakes Task Force can be found here. ###
03.21.2019	DEARBORN, MI – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (D-MI) hosted a Military Service Academy Information Session in Belleville, MI to give high school students and their families an opportunity to meet veterans and service academy representatives. Dingell’s office provided information about the service academy nomination process. Photos from the event are available here. “Young people are our future. Southeast Michigan is home to many future leaders and it is an honor to nominate the best and brightest to become leaders in our military,” said Dingell. “Every student has their own unique story and skills. Nominating students ensures that our military is ready to tackle any challenge and task. Providing students with the opportunity to hear directly from the services academies makes the process more open and approachable.” Dingell has the honor of nominating up to 10 individuals for each available slot allotted to her district to each of the US Military Service Academies, which are: US Military Academy in West Point, NY; US Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD; and US Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO. The US Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point, NY does not require Congressional nomination. Interested students should apply for nomination through Dingell’s office in Dearborn by October 15. Applications must include: A Completed Academy Nomination Application form, available here, A personal statement of interest, High school and/or college transcripts, Copy of SAT or ACT score, and Three letters of recommendation. For more information on the service academy nomination process, please visit Dingell’s website here or call her office at 313-278-2936. ###
03.20.2019	DEARBORN, MI – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today applauded Ford’s announcement that the company will invest $900 million and add 900 incremental direct new jobs in Southeast Michigan, including an $850 million investment at the Flat Rock Assembly Plant in Michigan’s 12th Congressional District. Ford’s investment will support battery electric architecture and next-generation Mustang production, as well as establish an autonomous vehicle manufacturing center in Southeast Michigan. “Workers at Flat Rock, like all of Michigan’s auto workers, are the best in the world. My district is not only home to Ford’s World Headquarters and research and development in Dearborn, but also the Flat Rock plant producing their best, hottest products. The Mustang is the pride of American roads, and exported around the world. Ford’s investment in creating hundreds of new jobs reaffirms their confidence in the US workforce. Creating a next-generation electric vehicle shows Ford’s vision for building not only the energy of the future, but also the workforce. “If we want to get to a carbon-less society, electric vehicles are how we get there. Producing electric vehicles at Flat Rock moves us forward. We all have to work together to get them on the road. Consumers need confidence when they buy an electric vehicle that they can charge when they need to and get to where they are going. Our challenge remains to do everything we can – together – to develop the infrastructure and to invest in research and development on more affordable, higher-capacity, and longer range batteries to build consumer confidence and keep Michigan at the forefront of innovation and technology. Ford is investing in next-generation battery electric vehicles. Now we must make sure we have the electric vehicle infrastructure on our roads and in our communities to support them. “We need to support building consumer confidence in the safety of autonomous vehicles. One way we do that is develop the regulatory framework to ensure safety and responsibility. Congress needs to act. Other countries are developing this now, and if we want America to stay at the forefront of being the mobility leader we need to get together on this. The US must continue to be a leader in innovation and bring these new technologies safely to market and build consumer confidence. Delay in such action is resulting in autonomous vehicle being developed and produced at a slower pace in the US and is significantly contributing to the lack of consumer confidence. Ford’s establishment of an autonomous vehicle manufacturing center puts Southeast Michigan at the center of the future of mobility. “This is a great announcement and I look forward to continue working with Ford to support auto workers and the future of mobility.” ###
03.18.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – In an effort to keep children safe from toxins, Representatives Debbie Dingell (D-MI) and Jan Schakowsky (D-IL) today introduced legislation mandating that all cosmetics marketed to children are demonstrated to be free of asbestos or otherwise carry a warning label. Accessories retailer Claire’s recalled three products that tested positive for asbestos by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Even small levels of asbestos exposure over many years can cause diseases like lung cancer and mesothelioma. “Parents should have the peace of mind in knowing that the cosmetics their children use are safe. Yet once again, asbestos was found in products – including glitter and eyeshadow– being marketed and sold to children by the popular retailer Claire’s,” said Dingell. “No child should be exposed to asbestos through the use of common, everyday products. That is why I introduced the Children’s Product Warning Label Act so all cosmetics marketed to children to contain proper warning labels alerting parents of dangerous toxins.” “Most Americans are shocked to realize that cosmetics and personal care products are one of the least regulated consumer products on the market. Yet the average American uses about ten of them every day and is exposed to about 126 unique chemicals from these products. This includes countless products marketed towards and used by children,” said Schakowsky. “I will continue to fight for full disclosure of the many chemicals in our products, including dangerous carcinogens like asbestos. That’s why I’m proud to join my friend Representative Dingell to introduce the Children’s Product Warning Label Act. This bill is an important step towards eliminating toxic beauty and personal care products and giving the Food and Drug Administration the authority it needs to keep Americans safe.” The Children’s Product Warning Label Act requires all cosmetics marketed to children to contain a warning label that the product has not been evaluated for asbestos contamination unless the manufacturer of the product attests in writing to the HHS Secretary that the source is an asbestos free-mine, and that they demonstrate to FDA that the product is asbestos-free using the transmission electron microscopy method. “Every year, up to 15,000 Americans die from diseases caused by exposure to asbestos. Companies have known for decades about the presence of asbestos in talc. But, there are still more than 2,000 products being sold today contain talc — including more than 1,000 fine or pressed powders that could be inhaled — and no requirements to test for asbestos or to warn consumers of the risk. Thanks to the leadership of Reps. Debbie Dingell and Jan Schakowsky, consumers may finally know whether or not they are using an everyday product that may contain this deadly carcinogen. Congress should not wait to enact this critical legislation, and to modernize how the FDA reviews and regulates chemicals and contaminants in cosmetics and other personal care products,” said Scott Faber, Senior Vice President of the Environmental Working Group. ###
03.15.2019	DEARBORN, MI - Today, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (D-MI) made the following statement after shootings at mosques in New Zealand: “Unprecedented act of violence in another house of worship. Too many dead in mosques in New Zealand. Yet again one more act of hate and violence. Every person should be able to worship in a mosque, church or temple without fear. Hatred and fear continue to divide us. Today will be difficult for many of my friends who will worry when they worship this weekend. I stand with them. Divided we fall, united we stand. We can and must recognize that our differences make us stronger.” ###
03.14.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, during a hearing on improving vehicle technology to prevent drunk driving, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (D-MI) called on Congress to take action to save lives. Dingell urged the Consumer Protection and Commerce Subcommittee to hold the hearing after the Abbas family from Michigan were tragically killed in a car accident caused by a drunk driver. Video of the hearing is available here and here. “Too many people are dying on our roads because of the inexcusable behavior of other drivers. My community recently experienced the senseless, incomprehensible consequences and tragedy of a drunk driver,” said Dingell. “The Abbas family’s story isn’t new – it’s been repeated for years, over and over, and the time for Congress to act is now. Their deaths, and the thousands just like them, are avoidable and preventable. Nothing will bring back the Abbas family or the thousands we’ve lost so needlessly. Their lives were too important to forget. We need to make sure that their death is not in vain and address this challenge with action.” In January, a Michigan family – Issam, Rima, Ali, Isabelle, and Giselle Abbas – were tragically killed in a car accident caused by a drunk driver while returning from a family vacation. The wrong-way driver in the crash had a blood alcohol content (BOC) of .306, which is more than three times the legal limit. Dingell honored their lives on the house floor and pledged action by introducing the Abbas Stop Drunk Driving Act which requires the Department of Transportation (DOT) to set a federal motor vehicle safety standard that would require all new vehicles to be equipped with an ignition interlock device. DOT would have to complete this standard within one year. Drunk driving is the number one cause of death on America’s roadways. More than 10,000 deaths—about 30 percent of all fatal crashes—are caused by drunk driving each year. The witnesses at Thursday’s hearing discussed a number of ways to address this problem and provided updates on research of new alcohol-detection technology. The Driver Alcohol Detection System for Safety (DADDS) Program is a private-public partnership is developing and testing technology that would not require any additional action – such as blowing into an interlock device – to prevent a drunk driver from starting a vehicle. The goal of the DADDS program is to develop technology that is accurate and precise at stopping drunk drivers while being unobtrusive and not creating any inconvenience to a sober driver. A video of the entire hearing is available here. ###
03.13.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Representatives Debbie Dingell (D-MI) and Fred Upton (R-MI) pressed US Immigration officials to halt the deportation of University of Michigan Knight-Wallace Fellowship for Journalists recipient Emilio Gutiérrez Soto, and approve his request for asylum in the United States. As a reporter in Ascensión, Mexico for El Diario Del Noroeste, Soto documented crimes committed by Mexican soldiers. As a result of his reporting, Gutiérrez Soto received multiple death threats from the figures affiliated with the Mexican Military. In 2008, Gutiérrez Soto and his son fled to New Mexico to seek asylum amidst the deteriorating climate for press freedoms in Mexico. Gutiérrez Soto has abided by US laws and fully cooperated with US Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) while his case has been adjudicated. Soto is currently a recipient of the 2018-19 Knight-Wallace Fellowship for Journalists at the University of Michigan, where he has studied issues regarding the safety and freedom of the press while service as an invaluable resource to the community at large. Dingell and Upton urged ICE in a letter Wednesday to halt Gutiérrez Soto’s deportation and take urgent action to decide his asylum case. Dingell introduced what is known as a private bill, one that applies specifically to Gutiérrez Soto’s case and, if passed, would provide him and his son relief. “The University of Michigan community, members of the media, advocates for press freedom around the country, and many Americans continue to share our deep concerns about Mr. Gutiérrez Soto’s safety should he return to Mexico,” wrote Dingell and Upton. “Mexico remains the deadliest country for journalists worldwide that is not engaged in armed conflict, and two journalists have already been murdered in the country this year. Given this set of facts, along with the legitimate documented concerns surrounding Mr. Gutiérrez Soto’s safety, we strongly supports his request for asylum. It is our hope that due consideration is given to his case, and we thank you for your attention to this important matter.” You can read the full letter here or below. Dear Acting Director Vitiello, This letter is in support of Mr. Emilio Gutiérrez Soto and his request for asylum in the United States. Mr. Gutierrez is a well-respected journalist worldwide and is currently a fellow at the University of Michigan. The University of Michigan community, members of the media, advocates for press freedom around the country, and many Americans continue to share our deep concerns about Mr. Gutiérrez Soto’s safety should he return to Mexico. Mr. Gutiérrez Soto spent years as a reporter in Ascensión, Mexico for El Diario Del Noroeste, during which time he documented crimes committed by Mexican soldiers as part of a wider news beat. As a result of his reporting, Mr. Gutiérrez Soto received multiple death threats from figures affiliated with the Mexican military. These incidents, along with a deteriorating climate for press freedom, caused Mr. Gutiérrez Soto and his son to flee to a New Mexico border crossing in 2008 to seek asylum. Since this time, Mr. Gutiérrez Soto and his son have lived in the United States abiding by the law and fully cooperating with U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) while his case has been adjudicated. Throughout these legal proceedings, Mr. Gutiérrez Soto’s case has received widespread support from the National Press Club, the Committee to Protect Journalists, and Reporters Without Borders, and other groups who have worked tirelessly to raise awareness of his situation. As mentioned, Mr. Gutiérrez Soto is currently a recipient of the 2018-19 Knight-Wallace Fellowship for Journalists at the University of Michigan, where he has studied issues regarding the safety and freedom of the press while service as an invaluable resource to the community at large. Mexico remains the deadliest country for journalists worldwide that is not engaged in armed conflict, and two journalists have already been murdered in the country this year. Given this set of facts, along with the legitimate documented concerns surrounding Mr. Gutiérrez Soto’s safety, we strongly supports his request for asylum. It is our hope that due consideration is given to his case, and we thank you for your attention to this important matter. ###
03.12.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (D-MI) joined the introduction of legislation to protect Dreamers and individuals with Temporary Protected Status (TPS). The Dream and Promise Act allows Dreamers and individuals with TPS to legally contribute fully in the country they love and know to be their home by providing a path forward to citizenship. In Michigan, TPS is critically important for many communities. TPS allows individuals from nations experiencing war, natural disasters, or extraordinary circumstances to live and work in the United States on a temporary basis. “Immigrants are deep-rooted in our communities and have contributed significantly to our democracy and culture. Southeast Michigan and my hometown of Dearborn are symbols of how much they are a part of who we are,” said Dingell. “We are dealing with two important issues. Young people who are Americans in every way. Dreamers contribute to so many essential functions, pay taxes, and serve in the military. They came as children and this is the only country they know and they are now scared to death. “Others came this country under TPS protections looking for a better life and fleeing unsafe, life-threatening situations; many women who faced violent, heartbreaking circumstances. Most of us have grandparents or other family who came to this country generations ago seeking the dream and hope this country has to offer. We need to fix our broken immigration system. Immigrants are Americans in every way and the Dream and Promise Act fulfills the promise that if you work hard and give back to your community you can thrive here.” The Dream and Promise Act would provide a pathway to citizenship for eligible Dreamers who entered the U.S. under the age of 18 and who were continuously present in the U.S. for 4 years prior to the date of the bill’s enactment. Dreamers would be provided conditional permanent resident status and would need to fulfill an education, employment, or military track to adjust to permanent resident status. In addition, the Dream and Promise Act would secure permanent residency for people with TPS and DED. After 5 years, those permanent residents would be eligible to apply to become citizens. On average, TPS recipients have lived in the United States for 20 years, building a new life for themselves and their families. Similarly, DED recipients have lived in the United States and contributed to their communities since 2007. People with TPS and DED are just as American as Dreamers, working hard every day to pursue their American Dream. This bill is designed to promote justice and fairness for Dreamers, and for the TPS and DED holders who had fled brutality, violence and natural disasters many years ago to come to this country. Dingell has led her colleagues in calling on the Administration to re-designate TPS for Yemen due to the ongoing armed conflict within the country. TPS status was set to expire on July 5, 2018. The Trump Administration extended protections to allow eligible individuals to re-register for an extension of their status for 18 months, through March 3, 2020. During the designated period, eligible nationals of Yemen (and people without nationality who last habitually resided in Yemen) who are approved for TPS will not be removed from the United States. For more information about the application process and eligibility requirements, please visit www.ucis.gov/tps. Members of the community who need assistance should contact Dingell’s Dearborn office at 313-278-2936. ###
03.11.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (D-MI) released the following statement after the President released a budget proposal for fiscal year 2020 that expands the deficit and military spending while proposing cuts to Medicare, Medicaid, and other domestic programs. The budget proposal released today includes vague funding references to the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI), which critically needs full funding to protect these treasured natural resources for future generations. “The President’s budget proposal released today is not the direction the country needs to be going. Escalating the deficit while making cuts to critical programs such as Medicare and Medicaid don’t make us more competitive and hurts people. “Every American has the right to quality, affordable healthcare. Medicare and Medicaid are life-saving programs that fulfill that promise. Our seniors are already struggling to afford their medications and long-term care. Calling for hundreds of billions of dollars in cuts – which the President promised not to touch – makes it harder for Americans to live healthy lives with dignity. It’s wrong and I’ll fight these cuts with every ounce of my being. “Democrats and Republicans in Congress agree supporting our military and national security is our number one job. We can make smart, effective budget investments that recognize America’s strength and greatness beyond just our military strength and building walls that stand as symbols of division. Congress repeatedly rejected the President’s request for billions for a boarder wall. Then he attempted to circumvent Congress’ power of the purse by declaring a national emergency to divert money away from other military constructions. Military readiness is making sure our nation remains competitive includes educating our children, job training for workers, protecting the environment, and keeping our society healthy. This blueprint ignores children and hard-working Americans. “Now it is our job in the Congress to come together as Democrats and Republicans. We can and must put together a budget and statement of values that reflects everything that makes our country great and puts the government to work for the people.” ###
03.07.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (D-MI) issued the following statement after the House voted on a resolution denouncing anti-Semitism and Islamophobic language in our society: “We will not be divided by fear and hatred. Anti-Semitism is unacceptable and will not be tolerated by me or others in the Congress. Equally as unacceptable is Islamophobic rhetoric that threatens many of my Muslim neighbors and is far too common today. I voted in favor of the resolution on the House floor because of those reasons. The first resolution which was circulated did not strike this balance, which is why I could not support it and worked with my colleagues to change it. We cannot stifle free speech in this country or allow ourselves to be divided by fear and hatred. Throughout the course of our country’s history, language that is racist, sexist, intolerant, prejudiced, or discriminatory has divided and pitted us against each other. For instance, in my own community of Dearborn, my friends and neighbors have been targeted just because of their religion. Divided we fall, united we stand. We must rise against it and stand together.” ###
03.07.2019	WASHINGTON, DC –Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (D-MI) thanked leaders of the House Energy and Commerce Committee for scheduling a hearing on improving safe vehicle technology to prevent drunk driving. On Thursday, March 14 at 10 am in Washington, DC, the Consumer Protection and Commerce Subcommittee will hold a hearing titled “Enhancing Vehicle Technology to Prevent Drunk Driving.” “The Dearborn community is still grieving from the tragic loss of the Abbas family who were killed by a drunk driver,” said Dingell. “No family in America should have to go through such a tragedy ever again. We have to bring all stakeholders together to identify meaningful solutions to the scourge of drunk driving, including my Abbas Stop Drunk Driving Act. Every day, almost 30 people in this country die in an accident involving a drunk driver. This is unacceptable and must change. This hearing in the Energy and Commerce Committee is the first step towards passing a meaningful legislative solution this year. I thank Subcommittee Chairwoman Jan Schakowsky and Chairman Frank Pallone for their leadership in holding this critical hearing.” In January, a Michigan family – Issam, Rima, Ali, Isabelle, and Giselle Abbas – were tragically killed in a car accident caused by a drunk driver while returning from a family vacation. The wrong-way driver in the crash had a blood alcohol content (BOC) of .306, which is more than three times the legal limit. Dingell introduced the Abbas Stop Drunk Driving Act which requires the Department of Transportation (DOT) to set a federal motor vehicle safety standard that would require all new vehicles to be equipped with an ignition interlock device. DOT would have to complete this standard within one year. Information for this hearing, including the Committee Memorandum, witness list and testimony, and a live webcast, will be posted HERE as they become available. ###
03.07.2019	Washington, DC) – Today, Representatives Debbie Dingell (D-MI), Joe Morelle (D-NY), Brian Fitzpatrick (R-PA), and Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) introduced H.R.1583—the Senior and Disability Home Modification Assistance Initiative Act of 2019. The legislation will make it easier for seniors and individuals with disabilities to navigate the complex web of services and programs available to modernize and stay in their homes as they age. “The ability to live at home and stay in their community is for many seniors and their families the key to a healthy and happy life. In addition, it saves money,” said Rep. Dingell. “This bipartisan, commonsense bill makes it possible for seniors and people with disabilities to make simple modifications to keep them happy in their home and community. This is a step in the right direction toward fixing the complicated and broken long-term care system in our country.” “As our loved ones get older, we must ensure they have the resources and support to age in place safely and independently,” said Rep. Morelle. “Simple home modifications can help make this a reality, but for too many Americans, high costs and lack of accessibility keep those updates out of reach. I am proud to sponsor this bipartisan legislation and partner with my colleagues in both the House and Senate to support the changing needs of families of all ages and abilities.” "We should always be working to keep seniors and those with disabilities safe in their homes and one way to do that is providing assistance for costly home modifications,” said Rep. Fitzpatrick. “This legislation will help seniors and people with disabilities live happier and healthy lives at home by increasing access to federal assistance for home modifications. “Our goal should always be for seniors and people with disabilities to be able to stay in their homes for as long as possible, but sometimes, that’s only realistic with costly home modifications that are often paid for out-of-pocket,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “This legislation makes it easier for seniors and people with disabilities to access federal assistance to pay for these modifications, enabling them to live independently in their home, close to their loved ones, where they want to be.” “BPC Action commends the bicameral, bipartisan introduction of Senior and Disability Home Modification Assistance Initiative Act of 2019 by Reps. Morelle (D-NY) and Fitzpatrick (R-PA) and Sens. King (I-ME) and Collins (R-ME) and others,” said Michele Stockwell, Executive Director of Bipartisan Policy Center Action. “This legislation creates a cross-cutting initiative by the HHS assistant secretary for aging to coordinate, review, and promote the numerous federal home modification programs and resources that are available to older adults and people with disabilities. Up to 80 percent of home modifications are paid for out of pocket, an increasing burden on America’s growing older adult population. This legislation will lead to a better understanding of the effectiveness of federal programs at enabling older and disabled individuals to live safely and independently at home." Seniors and individuals with disabilities overwhelmingly wish to stay in their homes as they age—but too often, houses lack accessibility features that make it difficult to age in place. The cost of modernizing homes to add ramps, railings or benches should not prevent those on limited incomes from living safely in their own homes. This bipartisan, bicameral legislation makes it easier for seniors and individuals with disabilities to access these essential home modification resources. By working in conjunction with the Department of Health and Human Services, it will help coordinate existing programs and make information on modifications and repairs more readily available. Companion legislation to H.R. 1583, the Senior and Disability Home Modification Assistance Initiative Act, is also being introduced in the U.S. Senate by Senators King (I-ME), Collins (R-ME), Casey (D-PA), and Schatz (D-HI). ###
03.07.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (D-MI) joined introduction of the bipartisan reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act. This critical, long-term legislation reaffirms protections for all women, men and children, and includes vital improvements to address gaps in current law that have been identified by victims, survivors and advocates to keep our communities safe. “No woman, no child and no family should fear for their life because of domestic violence,” said Dingell. “We desperately need Congress to reauthorize VAWA. I spend a lot of time with groups that need this bill, and they are worried and in crisis about budget cuts. Without updates or support for the critical programs in VAWA we are moving backwards, good programs helping victims have one more stress point, and one more fear to add to the pile. VAWA has always been a bipartisan effort. It’s going to be hard work – but we need to update and extend VAWA.” The package includes two provisions written and led by Dingell. The bipartisan Zero Tolerance for Domestic Abusers Act closes loopholes that make it easier for perpetrators of dating violence and those convicted of misdemeanor stalking to legally access guns. Dingell expanded on the health titles in the bill to strengthen the healthcare system’s identification, assessment and response to domestic violence, sexual assault and dating violence survivors with an expanded focus on accessing behavioral health and safety resources across the lifespan. “People with a history of domestic violence shouldn’t have access to guns,” Dingell continued. “Seventy-six percent of women murdered by a current or former intimate partner, experienced stalking in the year prior to their murder – there are signs. Closing loopholes that allow stalkers to access guns will save lives. Period.” “The Health provisions in this bill strengthen the healthcare system’s identification, assessment and response to survivors of domestic violence, sexual assault, and dating violence. Studies show a strong correlation between those receiving mental health and substance abuse services and the likelihood of domestic violence as the root cause. Provisions in this bill bring together our fragmented mental health and domestic violence systems so we can best serve survivors,” Dingell concluded. “There is no reason a survivor should face hurdles when trying to connect with the services they need to recover.” An archived live-stream of the Capitol Hill press event marking the introduction is available here. This reauthorization fulfills Congress’s responsibility to protect all Americans by reaffirming protections for every woman, as well as including vital improvements to address gaps in current law that have been identified by victims, survivors and advocates. This bipartisan bill: Improves the services available for victims and survivors of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault and stalking; Expands the housing protections and financial assistance available for victims and survivors; Improves protections for Native women, including by reaffirming tribal criminal jurisdiction over non-Indian perpetrators of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking; Expands firearms laws to prohibit persons convicted of dating violence, misdemeanor stalking, or subject to protective orders from possessing firearms; and, Invests in tools and resources for law enforcement and evidence-based prevention programs that make our communities safer. A fact sheet on the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2019 is available here. ### This press release has been updated.
03.06.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (D-MI) introduced the Save the Internet Act with by Congressman Mike Doyle and Senator Ed Markey, which restores popular, bipartisan net neutrality protections for consumers and small businesses, after the Trump Administration ended these vital protections last year. “Access to the internet is critical to conduct business, monitor the news, educate children, receive emergency notifications, connect to community, family and friends among many other functions,” said Dingell. “Michiganders and people around the country are depending on us to preserve net neutrality. Consumers, entrepreneurs and small businesses rely on knowing that their Internet Service Provider isn’t going to throttle their browsing speed, block their internet access, or make their prices sky high. The American economy are dependent on a fair and open internet." The “Save the Internet” Act creates popular, bipartisan and targeted net neutrality protections, and codifies the FCC’s 2015 Open Internet Order similar to last year’s Congressional Review Act that passed the Senate and had bipartisan support in the House: Strengthening transparency protections, enacting specific rules against blocking, throttling, and paid prioritization, and empowering the FCC to investigate consumer and business complaints and fine internet service providers for violations of the Communications Act; Protecting consumers against unjust, unreasonable, and discriminatory practices, and promoting competition; Ensuring consumers can make informed decisions when shopping for internet plans; and Restoring the FCC’s authority to fund broadband access for rural communities, working Americans, veterans, seniors, students and disabled Americans. Dingell – a member of the Communications & Technology Subcommittee – is a steadfast advocate for protecting net neutrality and consumers’ digital protections. Last year, she spoke out against the FCC’s order to end net neutrality and led a resolution in the House that attempted to repeal the order. ###
03.06.2019	DEARBORN, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) invites 9-12th grade students, families, high school counselors, veterans and service members to attend Military Service Academy information sessions on Wednesday, March 20th, 2019. The events will provide an opportunity for students, parents, and counselors to meet with representatives from the service academies, hear from Congresswoman Dingell, and learn more about the nomination process through her office. “Our nation’s service academies offer young people the opportunity to receive a world-class education while serving our country,” said Dingell. “These schools provide exceptional education and training to prepare young men and women for leadership roles in our military. I’m proud that our office can be a resource for students interested in attending one of our nation’s prestigious service academies.” For more information, please call Congresswoman Dingell’s Dearborn office at 313-278-2936. Wednesday, March 20th, 2019 WHAT: Dingell Hosts Military Service Academy Information Session WHO: Dingell and members of her staff Representatives from the U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, U.S. Military Academy, U.S. Naval Academy, and U.S. Coast Guard Academy WHEN: Wednesday, March 20th 6:00pm – 7:00pm WHERE: Wayne County Community College, Ted Scott Campus, Ted Scott Community Room 9555 Haggerty Road, Belleville, MI 48111 ###
03.05.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congress sent the President a package of bills to protect and conserve public lands to be signed into law. The John D. Dingell, Jr. Conservation, Management and Recreation Act promotes conservation, recreation, historic preservation, and cultural resource protection in Michigan and across the country. The package of bills includes a permanent authorization of the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF) which is the country’s premier program to conserve public land and improve outdoor recreation. Also included in the package are designations for 1.3 million acres of new wilderness, protections for a million acres of public lands from mining, and measures to save taxpayers $9 million. A summary of the John D. Dingell, Jr. Conservation, Management and Recreation Act is available here. "This landmark public lands legislation is the product of years’ of work and months of bipartisan, bicameral negotiations, and includes support from key conservation, sportsmen, and environmental stakeholders. The provisions in this bill will safeguard our nation’s conservation legacy for decades to come,” said Dingell. “John Dingell’s entire life was driven by his love of hunting and fishing, and his passion for the outdoors, protecting our natural resources, and addressing the challenges faced ensuring we conserve America’s wild plants, fish, animals, and their habitats. Had he ever been hired as a full-time park ranger as a young man, he might never have run for Congress.” “He would be particularly happy that the LWCF has finally been permanently authorized. Almost twenty years ago he started fighting for this with his friends Don Young, George Miller, Billy Tauzin, and Chris John,” Dingell continued. “LWCF funding has protected some of this country’s most treasured natural resources, while creating jobs, supporting local economies, and providing countless opportunities for recreation. Since 1965, LWCF has provided over $3.9 billion for over 40,000 projects in every county across the country with every $1 invested returning $4 in economic value. This has benefited every Congressional District, county and state in the country. Preserving our beautiful and iconic places matter to us all—and was the reason for initially establishing LWCF in the beginning.” “John Dingell is looking down on everyone today and saying well done.” A photo of Congressional leaders signing the bill at an enrollment ceremony is available here. An archived live-stream is available here. Under this bill, the MotorCities National Heritage Area will see an authorization increase of $2 million. In Michigan, LWCF has already invested more than $329 million to protect forests, wildlife refuges, lakeshores and to increase recreation access. t public lands, historic sites, and increase recreational opportunities. From backcountry trails and boat launches to rivers and community parks, LWCF has protected places like Detroit River International Wildlife Refuge, Hiawatha National Forest, Keweenaw National Historical Park, North Country National Scenic Trail, Pictured Rocks National Lakeshore, Pilgrim River Forest, and Sleepy Hollow State Park. LWCF – which has funded 42,000 projects across the country, bringing tremendous economic benefits and returns on investment since it was established in 1965 – has expired twice in recent years. Today’s bill reauthorizing the law removes it from future political consideration and prevents any future expirations. Among other measures, the bill will impact the country in the following ways. Recreation authorize the Every Kid Outdoors Act for seven years, providing every fourth-grader in the U.S. free access to public lands; and include a bipartisan sportsmen’s package designed to enhance access for hunting, fishing, and other recreation activities on public lands and waters. Conservation and Job Training expand protections under the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act to over 370,000 riparian acres, including segments along the Lower Farmington, Salmon Brook, Wood-Pawcatuck, and Nashua rivers in New England; expand the Ocmulgee National Monument in Georgia; designate several new National Heritage Areas in Arizona, Washington, and West Virginia; and establish the 21st Century Civilian Conservation Corps to increase job training opportunities for youth, veterans, and Native Americans on public and tribal lands. Habitats reauthorize the Fish and Wildlife Partners program, which would give assistance to private land owners for restoring, enhancing and managing their land to improve fish and wildlife habitats; reauthorize the Multinational Species Conservation Fund, which makes targeted investments to protect African elephants, Asian elephants, great apes, marine turtles, tigers, and rhinos; and establishes prize competitions for innovative approaches to wildlife conservation, invasive species control, and poaching and trafficking issues. Public Lands designate more than 1 million acres of wilderness on federal land in California, Oregon, Utah, and New Mexico; add five new national recreation areas; expand Joshua Tree National Park, Death Valley National Park and Mojave National Preserve; and cut off new mining activities in areas north of Yellowstone National Park and outside North Cascades National Park. African American History protect the home of Medgar and Myrlie Evers, passionate advocates for justice and equity during the Civil Rights Movement; expand the Reconstruction Era National Monument into a National Historic Park; create a Reconstruction Era National Historic Network to coordinate historical preservation and education efforts; reauthorize the Historically Black Colleges and Universities Historic Preservation Program. ###
03.05.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (D-MI) celebrated Paczki Day, a Polish celebration before the fasting of Lent, by bringing the traditional polish donuts to friends in Michigan and Washington. Photos from both Michigan and DC are available for download in a photo album here. “The Dingell family immigrated to the United States from Poland, and Paczki Day is a Polish celebration of Fat Tuesday – the last chance to indulge before the fasting days of Lent. Celebrating John’s heritage on Paczki Day with friends each year has been a reminder to the community that our heritage is important. Traditions such as this keep us connected and tie generations together,” said Dingell. “This day means more to me than ever. It is important to me to celebrate John by carry on this tradition with our friends, and to focus on what unites us rather than what divides us.” “Happy Paczki Day, and in his memory – don’t think about any calories.” ###
03.05.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – In recognition of World Hearing Day this week, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (D-MI) reintroduced the Medicare Hearing Aid Coverage Act that would expand Medicare to cover hearing aids for beneficiaries. Medicare does not currently cover hearing aids, which have an average price of about $2,500. Hearing loss affects nearly 48 million Americans and, left untreated, has serious emotional, social and medical consequences for older adults. Research has shown older adults with hearing loss are 32 percent more likely to require hospitalization, face a 24 percent increased risk for cognitive impairment and increasingly suffer from isolation and depression. A 10-year longitudinal study of patients in Baltimore found that those with hearing loss had a higher probability of developing dementia, with the probability rising as the severity of the hearing loss increased. “Without hearing aids, many seniors cannot hear, cannot interact with family, friends, neighbors, their community -- and that becomes incredibly isolating,” said Dingell. “Hearing aids are critical to ensuring seniors can live healthy lives with dignity and Medicare should cover this critical, life-saving device and in the end it would be cost-saving. No one should feel isolated, confused or shutout from the world because they cannot afford the treatment they need.” “Untreated hearing loss can be costly, leading to increased hospitalization, cases of depression and cognitive decline,” said Max Richtman, President and CEO of National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare. “Medical research continues to demonstrate a link between untreated hearing loss and the early onset of dementia or Alzheimer’s disease. If hearing aid coverage could slow the onset of these dreaded neurological diseases, millions of seniors and their families could live a better life and billions of dollars in Medicare and Medicaid spending could be saved. That’s why the National Committee fully supports Representative Debbie Dingell’s bill, the Medicare Hearing Aid Coverage Act, to add hearing benefits to Medicare. This bill just makes good economic and policy sense.” One of Dingell’s top priorities is bringing the nation’s long-term care system into the 21st Century. The Medicare Hearing Aid Coverage Act addresses one piece of the puzzle by improving access to hearing aids and related examinations. The bill also directs the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to conduct a study on insurance programs that provide services to help with hearing loss. The Medicare Hearing Aid Coverage Act is cosponsored by Reps. Rosa DeLauro (CT-03), Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Derek Kilmer (WA-06), Doris Matsui (CA-06), Betty McCollum (MN-04), Kathleen Rice (NY-04), and Jan Schakowsky (IL-09). ###
02.27.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (D-MI) made the following statement after the House passed The Bipartisan Background Checks Act, which would require a violent history check for every gun sale or transfer: “Background checks work,” said Dingell. “Many senseless tragedies could be prevented by strengthening and expanding our national background check system will make sure no one with a violent history is able to purchase or obtain a gun. Democrats and Republicans across the country agree these commonsense violent history checks are a step in the right direction. We must continue to have an honest discussion about how we can keep families, students, and our communities safe from the epidemic of gun violence.” H.R. 8, The Bipartisan Background Checks Act of 2019 is the first significant gun violence prevention bill passed by the House in decades. The bill would require a background check for every gun sale or transfer, with some carefully defined exceptions such as gifts to family members and temporary transfers for purposes such as hunting, target shooting, and self-defense. Currently, because of a large loophole, purchase from an unlicensed gun seller – such as at a gun show, online, or person-to-person – allow the purchase to go through without clearing a background check. ###
02.27.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Representatives Debbie Dingell, Pramila Jayapal, other members of Congress and advocates introduced the Medicare For All Act of 2019. “The time is now to ensure that every American has access to quality, affordable healthcare,” said Rep. Dingell. “Introducing this bill is a critical step in this long journey, but much work remains. We need to engage every stakeholder and build the consensus that will ensure every person is covered. Medicare for All is the beginning of a national conversation about how to improve healthcare in the United States. The time for action is here.” Today’s healthcare system fails to provide quality, affordable healthcare as a right to all people living in the United States. Nearly 30 million Americans are uninsured and at least 40 million more cannot afford the costs of their co-pays and deductibles. The quality of our healthcare is much worse than other industrialized countries—the life expectancy in the U.S. is lower than other nations, while our infant mortality rate is much higher. Yet the U.S. spends more money per capita on healthcare than any other industrialized nation. We waste hundreds of billions of dollars every year on unnecessary administrative costs, while healthcare industry executives measure success in profits, instead of patient care. The current healthcare system in the United States is ineffective, inefficient and outrageously expensive. It is time to remove the profit motive in healthcare, to resolve the inefficiencies and to guarantee quality healthcare to every person living in the United States. The Medicare for All Act of 2019 improves and expands the overwhelmingly successful and popular Medicare program, so that every person living in the United States has guaranteed access to healthcare with comprehensive benefits. A summary of the Medicare for All Act is available here, a section-by-section is available here, and the full text is available here. “Today in America, 30 million people are uninsured. 40 million are underinsured. We have the most expensive healthcare system in the world and yet our outcomes are the worst of all industrialized countries. I and the more than 100 co-sponsors of this bill refuse to allow this to continue. It’s time to put people’s health over profit. Our bill will cover everyone. Not just those who are fortunate enough to have employer-sponsored insurance. Not just children. Not just seniors. Not just those who are healthy. Everyone. Because healthcare is a human right. We will need every single person in the country to help us, to stand with us, to organize and to fight for this,” said Rep. Jayapal. “Because the industry lobby is going to pour hundreds of millions of dollars into killing this bill, saying it costs too much, scaring you into thinking you’re giving up something, pitting the healthy against the sick and the young against the old. It’s time to ensure that healthcare is a right and not a privilege, guaranteed to every single person in our country. It is time for Medicare for All.” “As the largest union of registered nurses in the country, we could not be more proud of Rep. Jayapal and Rep. Dingell for leading the way on this legislation that will change and save our patients’ lives. This bill is not only the most comprehensive Medicare for All act we have seen to date, but it is being introduced at a time when a majority of Americans are fed up with incremental tweaks to the current broken system and are demanding Medicare for All,” said NNU Executive Director Bonnie Castillo, RN. “It’s the right bill, at the right moment—and now we are organizing an unprecedented grassroots movement to demand that our elected officials support this legislation.” “In America, we pay more – much more – for health care than other countries, and we get less – much less. Tens of millions go uncovered, tens of millions more find that their insurance doesn’t cover what they need, and our health outcomes are inferior to other countries,” said Robert Weissman, President of Public Citizen. “We can do better. With the Medicare for All Act of 2019, we can provide coverage to every American, expand and improve coverage for every American – all at no additional cost, thanks to the massive waste and inefficiency that Medicare-for-All will eliminate. The time for Medicare-for-All has come.” "Rep. Pramila Jayapal, Rep. Debbie Dingell and the co-sponsors of the Medicare for All Act are fighting for all Americans. Current Medicare beneficiaries are among those with the most to gain from this bill, which will improve Medicare by adding long-term care, as well as dental, hearing, and vision services, while eliminating all premiums, co-pays, and deductibles,” said Nancy Altman, President of Social Security Works. “It will also bring down the outrageous cost of prescription drugs. It's time to pass this bill and make high quality health care a right for everyone in America.” “The Medicare For All Act is the only viable fix to a health care system that leaves far too many people in this country behind. I have the privilege of good employer-based insurance, but even that wasn’t enough when my husband was diagnosed with Multiple Sclerosis. I pay $830 a month just in premiums, just to struggle to afford copays and prescription costs, and still any job change or financial emergency could threaten my husband’s life,” said Jennifer Epps-Addison, Network President and Co-Executive Director, Center for Popular Democracy. “A system that profits off our pain and misfortune will never deliver the health care our families deserve -- and that’s why we’re rallying behind this groundbreaking legislation.” ###
02.26.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (D-MI) made the following statement after FCA announced plans to invest $4.5 billion to build a new assembly plant in Detroit and add production to five existing Michigan facilities: “Great news for Michigan from FCA today. I want to thank them to their commitment to production in the US. Their investment decisions are an important part of keeping this country at the forefront of innovation and technology in transportation and mobility. Hard-working men and women in Michigan are ready to fill these jobs and keep America as a leader in this extremely competitive global marketplace. We can’t get ahead by building in another country and importing back. Our workers do make the best product in the world and I thank FCA for their confidence in them.” ###
02.25.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Representatives Debbie Dingell (D-MI), Fred Upton (R-MI), and Brett Guthrie (R-KY) introduced two health bills that make it easier for seniors and the disabled to receive care in their preferred setting without facing bankruptcy or significant financial hardship. Dingell and Guthrie introduced the Ensuring Medicaid Provides Opportunities for Widespread Equity, Resources (EMPOWER) and Care Act, which will help certain Medicaid beneficiaries receive long-term care in their homes or communities if they voluntarily choose this setting. The bipartisan EMPOWER Care Act reauthorizes the federal Money Follows the Person (MFP) demonstration program for five years. This program allows certain Medicaid users, such as seniors and individuals with disabilities, to transition from a nursing home or institutional care back to their home. Since the MFP program was created over a decade ago, it has successfully helped over 88,000 individuals receive care in their own homes. The MFP program does not require people to leave institutional care; rather, it allows individuals who choose to go home to do so. Additionally, Dingell and Upton introduced bipartisan legislation to extend financial protections to seniors who receive long-term care in their home or a community setting. In an effort to erase the institutional bias that has led seniors to choose more costly nursing homes over impoverishment, the bipartisan Protecting Married Seniors from Impoverishment Act permanently extends spousal impoverishment protections for Medicaid beneficiaries receiving long-term care in a home or community care setting. “The long-term care system in this country is broken. Seniors, families, and caregivers are often desperate, stressed, and don’t know where to turn,” said Dingell. “The Money Follows the Person program and spousal impoverishment protections have shown they can create better outcomes for people receiving long-term care in the home or in the community. These proposals have strong bipartisan support and I hope the House passes them quickly. I understand the challenges better than many.” “Our seniors are some of our most vulnerable citizens, and we need to ensure they and their families have the financial protections they deserve to have the quality of life they deserve,” said Upton. “I’m proud to work with Representatives Dingell and Guthrie on this bipartisan legislation that will do exactly that.” “The EMPOWER Care Act will do just that: Empower people with disabilities to decide where to receive care. I was proud to join Representatives Dingell and Upton to introduce this bipartisan bill to extend the Money Follows the Person program, which has already helped hundreds of people make the transition from a nursing home or facility to receiving care in their own home and communities. This program does not force patients to leave a facility if they don’t want to; rather, it allows individuals to decide what is best for them. I look forward to seeing this bill pass in the House,” said Guthrie. In addition to having bipartisan support in Congress, the EMPOWER Care Act the Protecting Married Seniors from Impoverishment Act are endorsed by numerous stakeholder groups. “This important legislation will ensure that individuals who could be helped by MFP to live in their homes and communities will not be forced into an institution instead, and it’s for that reason that we will be proud to advocate for its passage,” said David J. Totaro, Chairman, Partnership for Medicaid Home-Based Care. “The Money Follows the Person Program has had immeasurable impact on our ability to transition individuals with intellectual and developmental disabilities out of institutions and into the community,” said National Association of State Directors of Developmental Disabilities Services (NASDDDS) Executive Director Mary Lee Fay. “Along with providing much-needed enhanced resources to build successful supports around individuals moving into community settings, MFP also provides rebalancing funds that states have used to transform their systems to make it easier for people to get high quality long-term supports and services in the setting of their choice. Through these funds, states have learned a great deal about how to ensure successful transitions, and have eliminated many policy barriers to community living.” “For older adults and people with disabilities wanting to live at home with dignity and independence, federal Medicaid programs like Money Follows the Person and spousal impoverishment protections are essential,” said Howard Bedlin, National Council on Aging Vice President for Public Policy and Advocacy. “The Money Follows the Person program helps people move out of institutions and back home, while spousal protections keep older couples together, reducing unnecessary nursing home placement. Every community across this country has someone who would benefit from one of these important safeguards. That’s why we strongly support Rep. Dingell’s bipartisan proposals making the spousal impoverishment protection permanent and extending Money Follows the Person for five more years.” “The Jewish Federations of North America, which represents one of the most expansive health care, aging, and human services networks in the country, congratulates Representatives Dingell and Guthrie for their leadership in introducing the EMPOWER Care Act to extend Medicaid’s Money Follows the Person program. MFP has helped more than 80,000 older adults and people with disabilities lead more independent, engaged, and productive lives. “This bipartisan legislation empowers people to return to live in their communities with appropriate supports if they choose,” said William C. Daroff, Senior Vice President for Public Policy & Director of JFNA’s Washington Office. “We applaud these two champions for their long-standing and tireless commitment to improving the lives of older adults and people with disabilities.” “Money Follows the Person has been one of the most effective disability rights programs of the twenty-first century. It offers people with disabilities a meaningful alternative to institutionalization and helps safeguard their autonomy, liberty and self-determination. We hope reauthorization of this vital program will be swift and sure, ” said Vania Leveille, Senior Legislative Counsel from the ACLU. “As a national organization, LeadingAge has consistently supported federal law establishing and continuing protections against impoverishment for all spouses of people who need Medicaid LTSS. We continue to do so, because we believe that spouses, providers and the Medicaid program will benefit from the certainty that this legislation will provide. Ensuring permanent protections for Medicaid recipients of HCBS against spousal impoverishment is crucial to the well-being of older adult recipients of HCBS and those who care for them,” said Katie Smith Sloan, president and CEO, LeadingAge. “The positive impact of the Money Follows the Person Program is indisputable. This policy enables older adults to live in care settings of their choice and also sensibly helps states to use federal monies to pay for the providers identified as best-suited to care for an individual, based on need. We support this legislation and urge Congress to do the same by extending the MFP program.” “The Arc of the United States is grateful to Representatives Dingell and Guthrie for introducing the EMPOWER Care Act. This bill will fund desperately needed transitions for people with disabilities and Aging Americans out of institutions and back to their communities. The bill also creates important flexibility for states to modernize their systems with a focus on home and community-based services,” said Nicole Jorwic, Director of Rights Policy, The Arc of the United States “We often take for granted the ability to wake up each morning in our own home. Sadly, too many individuals who require assistance with daily activities risk unnecessary placement in an institution despite their wishes to stay at home with their families. That’s why we are extremely thankful for the paired introduction of legislation to extend Money Follows the Person and to guarantee that Medicaid’s spousal impoverishment protections applies to home and community-based services,” said NAELA President Michael J. Amoruso, Esq., CAP, Fellow. “Money Follows the Person has been transformative for individuals with intellectual and developmental disabilities in their quest to transition to true community living,” said ANCOR CEO Barbara Merrill. “Within our 1,600-member community of providers and beyond, MFP has been a key ingredient in supporting individuals’ ability to live in environments appropriate for their support needs, and we applaud Representatives Guthrie and Dingell for pioneering legislation to extend MFP’s legacy well into the future.” “Lutheran Services in America would like to thank Reps. Guthrie and Dingell for introducing the EMPOWER Care Act to reauthorize the Money Follows the Person Medicaid Demonstration Program (MFP) for five years. Lutheran Services in America strongly supports MFP, a program that has shown resounding success in transitioning over 80,000 seniors and people with disabilities from institutional settings into the community. Studies of the program show that it has produced significant cost savings, while improving quality of life outcomes for program participants. Lutheran Services in America, which leads one of the largest health and human services networks in the U.S. with over $22 billion in annual revenue, is made up of over 300 Lutheran social ministry organizations that touch the lives of 1 in 50 Americans each year. Nearly three-quarters of our member organizations provide services to seniors and people with disabilities. We applaud the leadership that Reps. Guthrie and Dingell have shown in supporting this incredibly valuable program, ” said Lutheran Services in America CEO Charlotte Haberaecker. ###
02.22.2019	DEARBORN, MI – Today, Congresswomen Debbie Dingell (D-MI) and Rashida Tlaib (D-MI) pressed Michigan Department of Environmental Quality (MDEQ) and the US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) on public health and safety after a recent emergency response identified a strong rotten odor originating from the Marathon Petroleum refinery’s coke-flare system in Detroit. In recent weeks, serious concerns have been raised about the odor affecting air quality safety and health effects, including residents reporting feeling nauseous and experiencing headaches after smelling the odor. After the public, local officials, and press headlines raised questions, the representatives asked for clarity regarding the incident and answers to questions to help reassure residents conditions are safe now and in the future. The representatives want to ensure that the health of residents and environment are at the forefront of any discussion of holding Marathon accountable. “It is our understanding, the Dearborn Fire Department responded and investigated three locations for a strong odor or possible gas leak. While none of the locations were found to have hazardous levels of chemicals in the air by the Department, the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality (MDEQ) ‘traced the odors to the coke-flare system at the Marathon Petroleum refinery,’ in a press release. The incident has raised serious concerns across both our communities. Concerned citizens, families, and local officials are asking questions and seeking reassurances that everything is safe,” wrote Dingell and Tlaib. “It is critical the public has a full understanding of what happened and the exact steps each of your agencies will be taking to keep the public safe and informed moving forward,” continued the representatives. “The residents of Southwest Detroit, Dearborn, and Downriver hold us all responsible for protecting these Michigan communities.” You can read the full letter here or below. Dear Director Clark and Acting Administrator Wheeler: We send this letter to express our joint concerns regarding the recent emergency response to Marathon Petroleum in Detroit on February 3, 2019, after strong odors were reported from multiple locations across Southwest Detroit, Dearborn, and the Downriver communities. It is our collective responsibility to ensure public health and safety is protected at all times—this deserves serious attention. It is our understanding, the Dearborn Fire Department responded and investigated three locations for a strong odor or possible gas leak. While none of the locations were found to have hazardous levels of chemicals in the air by the Department, the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality (MDEQ) “traced the odors to the coke-flare system at the Marathon Petroleum refinery,” in a press release. The incident has raised serious concerns across both our communities. Many concerned citizens, families, and local officials are asking questions and seeking reassurances that everything is safe. It is critical the public has a full understanding of what happened and the exact steps each of your agencies will be taking to keep the public safe and informed moving forward. To this end, we respectfully seek answers to the following questions and ask you to provide a clear and understandable plan for the public, with regard to this incident: What immediate steps were taken to address these odor reports? Please provide the exact timeline for responding to this incident and the process for identifying the source. How quickly were the source or sources in this case identified and communicated to emergency officials and the public? Has MDEQ and EPA been able to independently identify the specific chemical compounds of the odor and the levels that were present in the air at the time? Were any specific National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) violated for any criteria air pollutant? What were the specific NAAQS readings for all the available sensors monitoring Marathon Petroleum? Will any new sensors or monitoring processes be implemented to improve safety and monitoring? How is Marathon Petroleum’s coke-flare system monitored by MDEQ and EPA? And how often is it monitored? Please provide an accounting of all monitoring devices used and what entity is responsible for managing each device and the data collected. It is our understanding the refinery would be shutting down temporary. What is the current status of the coke-flare system? When was it taken offline and when will it be brought back online? What criteria will be evaluated to determine when to bring it back online, and who will make that final decision? Is MDEQ and/or EPA working with Marathon Petroleum on its plan for developing “short-term options to neutralize” the odor? What specific actions are MDEQ and EPA taking to prevent future incidents of this kind from happening in the future? Please clarify each of your agencies plans to monitor the health and safety of this site. What additional actions are EPA and MDEQ taking to ensure that any potential harmful air pollutants do not affect families who live in surrounding communities? How is MDEQ and EPA working together between agencies and with stakeholders to keep everyone updated? Has MDEQ and/or EPA required Marathon Petroleum to take any specific actions in this incident or improve any of its refining operations or safety procedures? The residents of Southwest Detroit, Dearborn, and Downriver hold us all responsible for protecting these Michigan communities. Thank you in advance for your attention and work on this important matter. We look forward to a full and prompt response. ###
02.08.2019	DEARBORN, MI and WASHINGTON, DC — Below, please find information on services for John D. Dingell in Michigan and Washington. On Monday, February 11, 2019 from 11:00 am to 8:00 pm, a visitation was held at the Ford Community and Performing Arts Center at 15801 Michigan Avenue, Dearborn, MI 48126. On Tuesday, February 12, 2019 at 11:00 am, a funeral mass was held at Church of the Divine Child. The Honorable Joseph R. Biden Jr. spoke and former staff of Mr. Dingell served as pallbearers. On Tuesday, February 12, 2019, Congressman John D. Dingell’s remains arrived at Joint Base Andrews on board a C-17 Globemaster III. Photos from the arrival ceremony are available here: https://www.dvidshub.net/image/5101837/rep-john-d-dingell-arrival-ceremony On Tuesday, February 12, 2019, a motorcade carrying Mr. Dingell’s casket arrived at the United States Capitol on the East Plaza. Video is available from C-SPAN here. On Thursday, February 14, 2019 at 10:30 am, a funeral mass was held at Holy Trinity Catholic Church, 3513 N Street NW, Washington, DC 20007. Speakers included: The Honorable Bill Clinton, The Honorable Steny Hoyer, The Honorable John Boehner, The Honorable John Lewis, and The Honorable Fred Upton. Serving as pallbearers were former members of Congress and colleagues of Mr. Dingell. On Friday February 15, 2019, Former Congressman John D. Dingell, a WWII-era veteran of the Army, was interred at Arlington National Cemetery. Dingell's grave is in Section 81, grave 65-A. Section 81 is located on the northwest side of the Cemetary, near where Lewis Drive meets Gifford Drive. More information on visiting Arlington is available at www.arlingtoncemetery.mil ###
02.07.2019	DEARBORN, MI — Below, please find a statement attributable to the Office of Congresswoman Debbie Dingell: “It is with a heavy heart that we announce the passing of John David Dingell, Jr., former Michigan Congressman and longest-serving member of the United States Congress. Congressman Dingell died peacefully today at his home in Dearborn, with his wife Deborah at his side. He was a lion of the United States Congress and a loving son, father, husband, grandfather, and friend. He will be remembered for his decades of public service to the people of Southeast Michigan, his razor sharp wit, and a lifetime of dedication to improving the lives of all who walk this earth.” ###
02.04.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressional Cancer Prevention Caucus Co-Chairs Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (D-MI) and Congressman Fred Upton (R-MI) introduced a Congressional resolution marking February 4, 2019 as National Cancer Prevention Day. The resolution recognizes the devastating effect cancer has on families and the importance of expanding knowledge, encouraging early detection, and working with friends in the medical and scientific fields to put an end to this deadly disease. “Nearly every family has been touched by cancer,” said Dingell, co-chair of the Cancer Prevention Caucus. “The work of the Cancer Prevention Caucus provides hope to millions of Americans by focusing on ways we can prevent cancer before it starts. I welcome Congressman Fred Upton as a new co-chair and look forward to working together in a bipartisan way to support innovative education and awareness efforts, and advance smart policies that will ultimately bring us closer to a world with less cancer.” “I am proud to co-chair the Cancer Prevention Caucus alongside my good friend Congresswoman Debbie Dingell,” said Upton, co-chair of the Cancer Prevention Caucus. “More work remains as we continue to build on the landmark 21st Century Cures Act, which included funding for programs such as the Beau Biden Cancer Moonshot that speeds up progress in cancer prevention and screening. Patients and families are counting on us. If there ever was an issue that demands our full attention and bipartisan efforts, it is this.” The Congressional Cancer Prevention Caucus is a bipartisan forum to engage Members of Congress, their staff, the medical community, advocacy groups, academia and the public on lifestyle and environmental factors that can reduce cancer risk. It seeks to increase education and awareness and advance policy solutions that improve public health and help prevent cancer before it starts. On Wednesday, the Caucus will co-host a workshop with Less Cancer on efforts to prevent cancer. ###
02.01.2019	ANN ARBOR, MI – Today, U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) announced that the University of Michigan will receive a $2,574,300 grant through the U.S. Department of Transportation’s University Transportation Centers (UTC) program that would continue funding for the Center for Connected and Automated Transportation (CCAT). CCAT is seeking to advance research in the field of comprehensive transportation safety and congestion management by taking advantage of connected vehicles, connected infrastructure, and autonomous vehicles. “We are at the cusp of a major transformation in the auto and mobility industry, and the University of Michigan is leading the way in the research and development of new technologies that will shape the future of mobility,” said Dingell, co-chair of the House Smart Transportation Caucus. “This grant will give U-M new tools to address the critical transportation challenges facing our nation by promoting connected and autonomous technology research and education. I’m also pleased that Washtenaw Community College will continue to be a partner in this project, as they will bring a unique perspective and skill set to this important effort. This partnership demonstrates the level of expertise the state of Michigan has in this critical field.” "Researchers at the University of Michigan are working together to help transform the future of mobility, from developing vehicles that talk to each other and drive themselves, to understanding how advancements in mobility can change how we live our lives," said Henry Liu, CCAT director and professor of civil and environmental engineering. "But as researchers continue to seek advancements in driverless technology, there are a number of issues surrounding technology development, policy and planning, and system design and operations that require answers and resolution. The Center for Connected and Automated Transportation is a leader in addressing the most important promises and pitfalls of tomorrow's transportation." CCAT tests and demonstrates emerging technologies and concepts by leveraging the Ann Arbor Connected Vehicle Test Environment, a unique ‘living laboratory’ that has instrumented urban streets and highways, thousands of connected vehicles, motorcycles, bicycles, and smart phones; and Mcity, a state-of-the art off-roadway test facility for connected and automated vehicle (CAV) testing and evaluation developed at University of Michigan. Sample research topics include traffic flow characteristics and operations for mixed streams of CAVs and regular vehicles; transportation infrastructure design and planning for CAVs; cybersecurity management of CAVs and infrastructure; and societal impacts of CAVs in terms of safety, efficiency, and environmental sustainability. The grant is one of 35 five-year grants awarded through the UTC program. U-M leads a consortium of regional colleges and universities on the project, including Washtenaw Community College, Purdue University, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, University of Akron, and Central State University. ###
02.01.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (D-MI) issued the following statement after a Department of Education investigation found that Michigan State University violated federal campus safety laws in connection to the sexual abuse by Larry Nassar: “MSU’s disregard for student safety is coming into clearer focus. The Department of Education’s report uncovered decades of negligence and violations in the university’s response to sexual assault and criminal activity spanning various areas of campus life. MSU leaders continue to demonstrate a lack of urgency in addressing their failure to protect young people from physical and emotional abuse. Michigan State must continue working to regain the trust of every survivor, student, alumni, and the state of Michigan. Congress has the responsibility to ensure a systematic failure of this gravity never happens again.” ###
01.30.2019	TAYLOR, MI – On Monday, February 4, U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12), State Senator Erika Geiss, and State Representative Alex Garza will hold a town hall meeting to discuss issues that matter to the community and answer questions. Dingell regularly hosts town hall meetings alongside local officials. More dates and locations for 2019 will be announced. “As we kick off the new year and new legislative sessions, it is important to take time to listen to the perspectives and concerns of the people that we represent,” said Dingell. “I am looking forward to hosting many town halls in 2019 and addressing the issues that matter to working men and women.” The town hall is free and open to the public. Those wishing to attend may RSVP here. Monday, February 4, 2019 WHAT: Community Town Hall Meeting WHO: Congresswoman Debbie Dingell, State Senator Erika Geiss, State Representative Alex Garza WHEN: Monday, February 4, 6:30 – 8:00 pm WHERE: Wayne County Community College Downriver Campus, Ray Mix Room, 21000 Northline Road, Taylor, MI ###
01.30.2019	TRENTON, MI – Today, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (D-MI) pressed Michigan Department of Environmental Quality (MDEQ) and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to answer questions and reassure residents after a notice of violation found increased asbestos levels following demolitions at the former McLouth Steel Site in Trenton. “As we all know, there is a long history of environmental violations at this site spanning several decades,” wrote Dingell. “Demolition and remediation of this site in a safe and effective manner is critical for the future of this region. MDEQ and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) are critical to ensuring this actually happens. People are looking for reassurances during the remediation and redevelopment phase, as well as a full understanding of the response to this violation.” Dingell continued, “As a result of the violation notice last week, concerned citizens, families, and local officials are asking questions and seeking reassurances. The City of Riverview Brownfield Authority has asked for an immediate halt of remediation activities until there is confidence restored in the process. They have also requested a resolution of all violations prior to work recommencing, continuing unannounced inspections by appropriate agencies, and for the state to independently collect and test ground and air samples. This incident must be taken seriously. Our future generations—our children—attend schools less than a mile from this site and are put at risk with each violation.” You can read Dingell’s full letter here. ###
01.30.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (D-MI) joined the Chairman of the Ways & Means Social Security Subcommittee, John B. Larson (D-CT), in introducing the Social Security 2100 Act, a bill that increases Social Security’s vital benefits while making the system financially strong throughout the 21st century. “Social Security is a part of our nation’s fabric. It’s woven into who we are as a country and how we care for our citizens,” said Dingell, a co-chair of the Expand Social Security Caucus. “Social Security provides the foundation of economic security for nearly all Americans. We have to protect it. We have to enhance it. The Social Security 2100 Act will ensure Social Security will be there for generations to come and remain true to the promise John Dingell, Sr. and FDR made when Social Security was enacted more than 80 years ago.” “Social Security is not an entitlement – it’s the insurance Americans have paid for through a lifetime of work to fund retirement, disability, and survivor benefits. The Social Security 2100 Act takes common sense steps to increase benefits and to make the system financially secure for the next 75 years and beyond. Social Security is the most successful program in American history, it is time to improve it for the future,” said Larson. The Social Security 2100 Act provides the following: An across-the-board benefit increase for current and new beneficiaries An improved cost-of-living adjustment (COLA) that takes into account the true costs incurred by seniors A stronger minimum benefit, so someone who works their whole life does not retire into poverty A tax cut for over 12 million Social Security recipients by eliminating the tax on their benefits Social Security is the most important source of retirement income for 4 out of 5 seniors. It also provides protections to disabled workers and families who have lost a breadwinner. With common sense steps like those in the Social Security 2100 Act, Congress can improve benefits while ensuring Social Security remains finally strong throughout the century. A summary and more information about the Social Security 2100 Act is available here. ### This press release has been updated.
01.29.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (D-MI) was appointed to a seat on the House Natural Resources Committee for the 116th Congress. “Our natural resources are too precious not to stand up for,” said Dingell. “Natural Resources was the first committee I sat on in Congress. Preserving the Endangered Species Act, mitigating the effects of climate change, and conserving public lands will be my top priorities. There’s more at stake than just dollars and cents. Once our natural resources our depleted, they are gone – no amount of money can bring them back. We must be bold and proactive in protecting our environment for future generations. ” Dingell is the leader on bipartisan legislation to promote and enhance our nation’s conservation efforts and ensure the long-term health of fish and wildlife throughout the country. The Recovering America’s Wildlife Act provide states with new critically needed financial resources to effectively implement State Wildlife Action Plans to conserve 12,000 species in greatest need of conservation while providing the public with more access to open spaces. Dingell also serves on the House Energy and Commerce Committee, including on the Environment & Climate Change Subcommittee. ###
01.29.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (D-MI) reacted to reports that the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) will not set maximum contaminant levels (MCL) for PFAS. “PFAS is a clear threat to human health and our environment,” said Dingell. “Establishing one national protective standard for all PFAS chemicals in water is urgently needed. EPA officials came to Michigan and saw contaminated sites and heard the urgent need for action. It’s disappointing reports indicate the opposite. I will work with Congressional leadership, committees, and colleagues from both sides of the aisle to get this addressed. If the administration refuses to act, Congress will.” Dingell has long-urged the EPA to set a national MCL for all PFAS compounds so there is one national standard for all water systems to ensure safe drinking water. Currently, states may issue public health warnings when contaminant levels reach 70 ppt (parts per trillion), as set by the EPA, but there are no enforcement mechanisms. Dingell supports setting a maximum contaminant level for all PFAS chemicals to address the severe health effects that have been linked to even low levels of exposure. Last week, Dingell and Reps. Fred Upton (R-MI) and Dan Kildee (D-MI) introduced bipartisan legislation that designates all PFAS chemicals as hazardous substances and allows the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to clean up contaminated sites in Michigan and across the country. ###
01.25.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) reintroduced the Preserve Our Lakes and Keep our Environment Safe (LAKES) Act, which starts a comprehensive year-long economic and environmental study of Enbridge’s Line 5 oil and natural gas pipeline under the Straits of Mackinac, and would require the pipeline’s permits be terminated if significant risks are revealed. “The Line 5 pipeline under the Straits of Mackinac poses a serious threat to the entire Great Lakes region, our environment and our economy,” said Dingell. “A University of Michigan study found that more than 700 miles of shoreline in Lake Michigan and Lake Huron are potentially vulnerable to an oil spill in the Straits, jeopardizing the Great Lakes ecosystem and hundreds of thousands of jobs. A thorough study on the condition and integrity of the underwater pipes and facilities in the Straits of Mackinac is necessary. If the conditions of the pipes to be a significant risk to the environment and public health, the operations of Line 5 must be shut down.” You can read the text of the bill here. The Preserve Our Lakes and Keep our Environment Safe (LAKES) Act: Commissions a comprehensive 12-month study to determine the economic and environmental risks pipelines under the Straits of Mackinac pose to the Great Lakes, Commissions a supplementary evaluation of the internal and external condition and structural integrity of such pipelines, and Requires that the Administrator of the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA) terminate operations of such pipeline should the study determine its operation poses significant risk to life, property, or the environment ###
01.25.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (D-MI) issued the following statement after an agreement was reached to reopen the federal government: “It should have never come to this. Federal workers were held hostage for more than a month, many told to come to work while not being paid. As this shutdown goes into the history books we cannot for one second let the human face of this shutdown get lost. People were scared to death of how to pay their bills and worried that hits to their credit scores would affect background checks, security clearances, and future employment. All of Congress cares about keeping our nation secure. We have a lot of work to do to regain American’s trust in their government.” ###
01.25.2019	DEARBORN, MI – As Valentine’s Day approaches, U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) is inviting local students to participate in the “Valentines for Veterans” project by making handmade valentine cards for local veterans. Last year, students across the region created hundreds of cards to show veterans how much they are loved and appreciated. This is the fifth year in a row that Dingell has organized the “Valentines for Veterans” project. “A gesture as small as a handmade card can mean so much to the men and women who served our country,” said Dingell. “For Valentine’s Day, I invite all students to join us in showing our veterans how much we appreciate their service and sacrifices.” The cards will be delivered in the days before Valentine’s Day by Dingell and friends to both the John D. Dingell VA Medical Center and the Ann Arbor VA. Those who wish to participate may drop off artwork at Dingell’s Michigan offices anytime between now and Thursday, February 7, or call the Dearborn office at 313-278-2936 to arrange for pickup. Dearborn Office 19855 West Outer Drive Suite 103-E Dearborn, MI 48124 Ypsilanti Office 301 West Michigan Avenue Suite 400 Ypsilanti, MI 48197 After “Valentines for Veterans” received such an overwhelming response from veterans, schools and the community in 2015, Dingell launched the year-round “Sending Smiles to Vets” program, which engages young people on an ongoing basis to create cards and artwork for veterans. The program celebrates various seasons and holidays, including Independence Day, Veterans Day and Thanksgiving. ###
01.24.2019	TRENTON, MI – Today, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (D-MI) issued the following statement after Michigan Department of Environmental Quality (MDEQ) issued a notice of violation which found increased asbestos levels following demolitions at the former McLouth Steel Site in Trenton: “As the McLouth Steel project proceeds, ensuring Downriver residents are safe will always be our number one priority. Although these reports of increased asbestos levels are deeply disturbing, the system worked – MDEQ was on site even though the EPA is shutdown. As soon as asbestos was found, immediate steps were taken to correct the problem and a violation notice was issued. I spoke to Governor Whitmer to ensure delays do not happen and that this is remedied as soon as possible. Going forward, I will continue to work with the EPA, the State of Michigan, and the City of Trenton to make sure our communities remain safe as this project continues.” ###
01.23.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (D-MI) and Congressman Fred Upton (R-MI) introduced emergency legislation to allow states to make unemployment benefits available to unpaid federal workers who despite the government shutdown have continued to show up to work despite not receiving a paycheck. Currently, federal workers who are deemed essential and continue to report to work are prohibited from collecting unemployment benefits. The bipartisan Pay Federal Workers Act, makes unpaid federal workers eligible for unemployment benefits. The bill includes provisions to allow federal workers to access unemployment benefits during any future government shutdowns. “Public servants aren’t Democrats or Republicans, they are people working to keep us safe,” said Dingell. “A missed mortgage payment affects their credit score and could impact future background checks and security clearance. They don’t know how they’ll afford gas to go to work to a job they aren’t getting paid for. Extending unemployment benefits to hard-working men and women is the right thing to do. We must come to the table and reopen the government.” “Our public servants are suffering because of partisan shenanigans and stalemate. No federal employee should be punished because elected officials keep dropping the ball,” said Upton. “This bipartisan legislation will extend unemployment benefits to unpaid federal workers across the country and ensure they have a safety net while they are not receiving their paycheck.” You can read a summary of the Pay Federal Workers Act here and the text of the bill here. Michigan Governor Gretchen Whitmer joined Washington Governor Jay Inslee and New York Governor Andrew Cuomo in calling for action to be taken to allow states’ to make unemployment benefits available to unpaid federal workers who have remained on the job during the government shutdown. ###
01.22.2019	YPSILANTI, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement on the passing of Medal of Honor Recipient Lieutenant Colonel (Ret.) Charles Kettles: “LTC Charles Kettles exemplified the best of American values—courage, dedication, and selflessness. He went above and beyond the call of duty to save the lives of his fellow soldiers, and it was a true honor to ensure he was properly honored as one of our nation’s bravest heroes. “Kettles was a pillar of our community and served as a trusted mentor to veterans after returning home from Vietnam. His true calling was serving others, and we are all better for knowing him and learning from him. John and I are deeply saddened by his passing, and our thoughts and prayers are with his family during this difficult time. Today and every day, we are grateful for his selfless leadership and courage of our country’s servicemembers.” In 2016, LTC Kettles received the Medal of Honor for conspicuous gallantry after a five-year grassroots effort to ensure his acts of valor were properly honored. ###
01.15.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (D-MI) was appointed to a seat on the Health Subcommittee on the House Committee on Energy and Commerce in the 116th Congress. She adds this subcommittee assignment to her other assignments on the Environment and Climate Change, Consumer Protection and Commerce, and Communications and Technology Subcommittees. “Passions that drive me in life are the issues being considered before E&C and are also critical to the Michigan economy,” said Dingell. “Ensuring every American has access to affordable, quality healthcare has been something I have fought for all my life. Getting a seat on the Health Subcommittee really matters. Our work is laid out for us. In a bipartisan fashion, we must work together to fix our broken and fragmented long-term care programs. Americans across the country want Congress to bring down the cost of prescription drugs, protect coverage for pre-existing conditions, and fix our fragmented healthcare system. Now we must deliver. Dingell continued, “It’s also important to me that I will continue to serve on my other subcommittees. Global climate is a critical issue facing this country and its effects are felt in Michigan. As technology advances, it’s important we balance consumers’ right to privacy and innovation. As well as many issues affecting Michigan that will be considered by these subcommittees.” Dingell serves as the co-chair of the Medicare for All Caucus and is a passionate advocate for improving healthcare. Each Congress, she has co-sponsored legislation to guarantee healthcare coverage and establish a single payer system. Dingell consistently fought back against efforts to repeal the Affordable Care Act. Last Congress, the Committee and the House passed a package which included bills introduced by Dingell to address the opioid epidemic. Dingell worked with Rep. Buddy Carter (R-GA) on bipartisan legislation that removed the gag clause that prohibited pharmacists from telling a consumer when less expensive options to pay for prescription drugs may be available. ###
01.14.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Representatives Debbie Dingell (MI-12), Fred Upton (MI-6), and Dan Kildee (MI-5) introduced bipartisan legislation that designates all PFAS chemicals as hazardous substances and allows the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to clean up contaminated sites in Michigan and across the country. The EPA currently does not list any per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS) as hazardous substances under the Superfund program which allows the EPA and federal agencies to clean up contaminated sites. Dingell, Upton, and Kildee wrote the PFAS Action Act to designate all PFAS chemicals under the Superfund program because they pose serious risks to human health and the environment and there is a growing urgency and need to act. By making this listing, EPA will be able to direct federal resources to clean up contaminated sites and limit the spread of these dangerous substances. “Michigan has been hit hard by PFAS,” said Dingell. “It’s clear it’s a threat to human health and our environment. It’s been found in our drinking water, air, food, and consumer products. Our bipartisan legislation will list all PFAS as the hazardous chemicals we know they are and give the EPA the tools it needs to clean up contaminated sites.” “PFAS contamination represents a clear and present danger to Michigan families,” said Upton. “And, as Parchment made crystal clear, we need an all-hands-on-deck effort to protect both human health and our environment. This bipartisan legislation will ensure we’re treating PFAS as a hazardous chemical and giving our agencies the resources to clean up sites for the betterment of our communities.” “Toxic PFAS chemicals are a serious threat to public health and we must pass policies that protect our communities from contamination. This bipartisan legislation is an important first step to making sure federal agencies can clean up sites like Wurtsmith in Oscoda, Buick City in Flint and others across the country,” said Kildee. You can read a copy of the PFAS Action Act here. Last year, the Environment Subcommittee of the Energy and Commerce Committee held a hearing on per- and polyfluoroalkyl substance (PFAS) in which an EPA official committed to sending experts and senior officials to Michigan to discuss PFAS contamination sites. The EPA had originally planned a public meeting in Michigan, but later pulled it from the schedule. In October, EPA visited sites with confirmed PFAS levels in Michigan. ###
01.10.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) reintroduced legislation to secure American voting systems against foreign interference. The Safeguarding Election Infrastructure Act of 2019 provides states with the information, intelligence and resources needed to protect electronic voting systems from manipulation and hacking, and to update aging election infrastructure. “Our democracy depends on free and fair elections, and we must do everything we can to protect the security and integrity of that process,” said Dingell. “The reality is, many of our voting machines have not been updated in nearly two decades and are susceptible to cyberattacks. We know that foreign adversaries pay very close attention to our elections, and until we address these vulnerabilities, our democratic process is at risk. This legislation ensures states have the resources and intelligence necessary to protect voting equipment and safeguard our elections from outside interference.” According to assessments by the U.S. intelligence community, at least 21 state election systems were targeted by Russia-affiliated hackers in an attempt to influence the 2016 election. At the most recent DEF CON hacking conference, hackers and security researchers were able to compromise five different types of voting machines in less than a day. During an election, these same vulnerabilities would allow bad actors to change vote tallies or manipulate voter registration databases. To address these issues, the Safeguarding Election Infrastructure Act: Allows for state and local election officials to get the needed security clearances, so federal agencies can share relevant intelligence and information needed to protect voting systems. Mandates every vote cast have a paper receipt and establishes a competitive grant program to help states update their voting machines. As it stands in some states, voters press a button and the machine tabulates the results. If a machine is compromised, election officials have no way to audit the results. Election results are audited using a statistically significant sample of paper ballots if the winner of the race receives less than 59 percent of the vote. Full text of the bill is available HERE. ###
01.10.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (D-MI) announced she would be introducing legislation to crack down on drunk driving in a speech on the floor of the US House of Representatives in memory of the Abbas family. Michigan family – Issam, Rima, Ali, Isabelle, and Giselle Abbas – were tragically killed in a car accident caused by a drunk driver while returning from a family vacation in Florida. “In every sense of the word, they were our community,” Dingell said on the House Floor. “The parents were born and raised in Dearborn. Rima served many as a respected doctor at Beaumont, and had just been promoted to head all the doctors at the hospital. And Issam had a successful career as a lawyer and real estate agent. Children, Ali aged 13, Isabelle aged 12, and Giselle aged 7 were gifts from god and the center of their parents lives but so many others in Dearborn. Their family, their very extended family, was devoted to everything that they did. Their absence stunned this community and is felt deeply and emotionally.” Dingell pledged to introduce legislation this week to reduce alcohol-impaired driving. “I have to go home to a community is still grieving. I can’t look them in the eye unless we are really willing to try to do something,” Dingell continued. “This week, I’m introducing legislation in memory of the Abbas family that would mandate all new vehicles be equipped with interlock breathalyzer devices. This will stop intoxicated drivers from ever starting a vehicle and keep them off the roads. If we can keep one person from dying on the roads and make people think twice before getting behind the wheel when they shouldn’t – even when they are buzzed and think they’ll be ok – then won’t we have been successful?” Dingell concluded, “Nothing will bring back the Abbas family. But their lives were too important to forget. Our community will deeply miss them but we need to make sure that their death is not in vain, we are dedicate to their memories and others we know to try to prevent another life being lost this way senselessly.” Dingell has introduced the Abbas Stop Drunk Driving Act. The legislation would require the Department of Transportation (DOT) to set a federal motor vehicle safety standard that would require all new vehicles to be equipped with an ignition interlock device. DOT would have to complete this standard within one year. On Thursday, Dingell delivered a speech on the House floor in memory of the Abbas family and announced the legislation. Dingell is working with her colleagues in Congress, the auto industry, and stakeholders to pass this legislation and stop drunk driving. ### This press release has been updated.
01.09.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (D-MI) today joined colleagues in introducing the Rehabilitation for Multiemployer Pensions Act, also known as the Butch Lewis Act, which ensures multi-employer pension plans remain solvent and continue providing retirees and workers the retirement benefits they have earned. Dingell has been fighting against proposed cuts to retiree pensions since the Central States Pension Fund threatened to cut retiree benefits by as much as 70 percent, impacting 273,000 current and future retirees, including an estimated 43,500 Michigan members. “Hard-working men and women have worked a lifetime thinking the pension they paid into would be there for them in retirement,” said Dingell. “This is the money they counted on to retire with dignity and security – to afford to stay in their homes and afford their medicine – and we must do everything we can to ensure they have the benefits they have earned. While it’s disappointing that the Pension Select Committee could not reach an agreement last year, our commitment to protecting pensions will not waver. This bipartisan legislation will bring relief to the tens of thousands of workers and retirees whose lives have been turned upside down by proposed cuts to their pensions. We need to address this crisis by shoring up multiemployer pension plans without taking a single penny from the retirement these workers were promised, and I am hopeful that we can advance it through the Congress as soon as possible. American workers have done their part, now it’s time for Congress to do ours.” Some of the nation’s largest multiemployer pension plans, including the Central States Pension Fund, are on the verge of collapse because they don’t have enough money to pay promised pensions to retirees and workers. The Rehab Act would ensure that all promised benefits are paid by creating a new office within the U.S. Treasury Department called the Pension Rehabilitation Administration (PRA). The PRA would issue bonds backed by the U.S. Treasury to finance loans to distressed pension plans so they can remain solvent and continue providing retirement security for retirees and workers for decades to come. The lead sponsors of the legislation in the House are Reps. Richard Neal (D-MA) and Peter King (R-NY), cosponsors are Reps. Dingell, Chris Smith (R-NJ), Bobby Scott (D-VA), Don Young (R-AK), Donald Norcross (D-NJ), John Katko (R-NY), Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), and Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE). Dingell has been fighting against proposed cuts to retiree pensions since coming to Congress. In 2018, she was appointed by then-Majority Leader Nancy Pelosi to the Joint Select Committee on Solvency of Multiemployer Plans. Dingell led a bipartisan coalition of 89 House colleagues in sending a letter to the U.S. Treasury Department urging the rejection of the application by Central States. Since the application was rejected in May 2016, Dingell and her colleagues have been working with all stakeholders to find a solution that will shore up multiemployer pension plans without placing an undue burden on workers and retirees. ###
01.09.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – The House of Representatives passed numerous health bills that Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (D-MI) helped usher through committee and floor consideration. Dingell is the lead cosponsor on the bills that will improve the safety of drugs sold over-the-counter, strengthen and evaluate emergency preparedness procedures for hospitals and long-term care facilities, help seniors and those with disabilities receive long-term services and supports in their homes and communities, and temporarily extend spousal impoverishment protections for seniors on Medicaid. The House passed each of these bills at the end of last Congress, but they failed to pass the Senate before it adjourned. “Our work to make health care safer and better respond to consumers will never be done,” said Dingell. “The House has taken action on critical bills to ensure patient safety and streamline making it easier to receive care in the community. The short-term extensions of the Money Follows the Person program and spousal impoverishment protections are important, but I’ll continue working for a permanent solution. I hope this is the beginning of a productive Congressional session where we work together in a bipartisan manner to ensure every American has the right to quality affordable health care.” The package of health bills passed by the House includes: The Over-the-Counter Monograph Safety, Innovation, and Reform Act introduced by Rep. Anna Eshoo (D-CA) and cosponsored by Dingell. This bill modernizes the monograph framework for over-the-counter drug products and allows new, safe products to come to market more quickly while addressing safety issues. Also, the legislation boosts the FDA’s budget by creating a new user fee program for over-the-counter drugs which will help give FDA the resources they need to oversee the industry and review new, innovative products. The Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness and Advancing Innovation Act which includes Dingell’s Worst-Case Scenario Hospital Preparedness Act. Dingell wrote the provisions in the aftermath of the 2017 hurricane season, which caused flooding and power outages at hospitals and medical facilities from Florida to Puerto Rico, resulting in public health emergencies and, in some cases, loss of life. A three-month extension of the Money Follows the Person (MFP) Demonstration Program, a highly effective program first authorized in 2005, which provides a way for elderly and disabled patients to move from institutional care to home or community-based services. A three-month extension of spousal impoverishment protections for seniors who receive long-term care in their home or a community setting. ###
01.08.2019	DEARBORN, MI – On Tuesday, January 22, U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12), State Senator Sylvia Santana, State Representative Abdullah Hammoud, and Wayne County Commissioner Sam Baydoun will hold a town hall meeting to discuss issues that matter to the community and answer questions. Dingell regularly hosts town hall meetings alongside local officials. More dates and locations for 2019 will be announced. “As we kick off the new year and new legislative sessions, it is important to take time to listen to the perspectives and concerns of the people that we represent,” said Dingell. “I am looking forward to hosting many town halls in 2019 and addressing the issues that matter to working men and women.” The town hall is free and open to the public. Those wishing to attend may RSVP here. Tuesday, January 22, 2019 WHAT: Community Town Hall WHO: Congresswoman Debbie Dingell, State Senator Sylvia Santana, State Representative Abdullah Hammoud, and Wayne County Commissioner Sam Baydoun WHEN: Tuesday, January 22, 7:00 – 8:30 pm WHERE: Fordson High School Auditorium, 13800 Ford Rd, Dearborn, MI ###
01.03.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (D-MI) was sworn into her third term in Congress and pledged to roll up her sleeves to deliver on issues important to working men and women in Michigan. “The new Congress begins and priority number one is to pass a bill to reopen the government. A lack of leadership has brought us to this shutdown. Public servants are caught in the middle. They aren’t Republicans or Democrats, they are people doing their job and working hard. Our plan will reopen government services, make sure workers get the paychecks they’ve earned, and restore certainty to the American people that their government is working for them. “Over the next two years, Democrats in the House will be focused on addressing issues that matter to working men and women. After we reopen the government, we have a lot to do. The diverse, energetic majority is ready to roll up our sleeves and get to work. Our immediate priorities include reducing the role of money in politics. Once we return the government to one working for the people we can get to work ensuring people with pre-existing conditions have access to affordable, quality healthcare and lowering the costs of prescription drugs. Urgent action is needed on environmental issues that ensure clean water, protect the Great Lakes, and address climate change. An infrastructure bill with smart investments will create good-paying jobs. “Above all, the voice of working Americans is critical to our democracy and I’m here to listen.” During the 116th Congress, Dingell will continue to serve on the House Energy and Commerce Committee. Dingell was also elected by her colleagues to serve as a co-chair of the House Democratic Policy and Communications Committee (DPCC) where she’ll play a role in advancing the Democratic Caucus’ policy agenda and communications strategy. ###
12.27.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (D-MI) released the following comment on the continued government shutdown: “As this unnecessary shutdown continues, the President needs to show leadership by reopening the government. Every single Democrat agrees keeping our nation secure is our number one priority. Let’s debate in Congress, on the floor and in committee, the best ways to keep our borders secure. Using hundreds of thousands of federal workers – including members of the Coast Guard working on the Great Lakes, and TSA and Customs and Border Patrol agents keeping airports and the border safe – as pawns is no way to run the government. It’s disrespectful to the service and time federal employees devote to our country. Time has come for us reopen the government and leave debate for border security to regular order.” Dingell and her office remain open for residents of the Twelfth Congressional District who need assistance with federal agencies, including Social Security, Medicare, veterans’ benefits, and others. If you are in need of assistance please call her Dearborn Office at 313-278-2936, her Ypsilanti Office at 734-481-1100, or visit DebbieDingell.House.gov. ### This press release has been updated.
12.21.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (D-MI) released the following statement as the federal government comes closer to a shutdown: “A government shutdown is unacceptable. It’s a lack of leadership from President Trump and Republican Congressional Leaders. The American people expect their government to work for them and listen. It’s the holiday season, we should be showing America our better selves not driving the nation into a pointless shutdown.” ###
12.20.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the House of Representatives passed a bipartisan bill to improve the safety of drugs sold over-the-counter. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (D-MI) led the effort with Representatives Bob Latta (DROH), Diana DeGette (D-CO), Brett Guthrie (R-KY), Anna Eshoo (D-CA), and Susan Brooks (R-IN). Sixty percent of all medicines sold in the US are over-the-counter, yet the FDA only has 18 full-time employees overseeing that market. The Over-the-Counter Monograph Safety, Innovation, and Reform Act reforms the outdated over-the-counter monograph system. The legislation modernizes the monograph framework and allows new, safe products to come to market more quickly while addressing safety issues. Also, the legislation boosts the FDA’s budget by creating a new user fee program for over-the-counter drugs which will help give FDA the resources they need to oversee the industry and review new, innovative products. “American’s use over the counter products every day and trust they are safe for use,” said Dingell. “We need to ensure the FDA has the authority and resources they need to make good on this expectation. Over-the-counter medicines can have very serious health effects on those using them and we need to make sure the agency can act quickly if a safety concern is discovered. This bill is a win-win. Patients and consumers will benefit from the improved safety of their products, and industry will get a reliable pathway to bring new, innovative products to the market – such as sunscreen which hasn’t seen a new product approved in over a decade.” The package of health bills passed by the House also includes provisions by Dingell to strengthen and evaluate emergency preparedness procedures for hospitals and long-term care facilities. Dingell wrote the Worst-Case Scenario Hospital Preparedness Act in the aftermath of the 2017 hurricane season, which caused flooding and power outages at hospitals and medical facilities from Florida to Puerto Rico, resulting in public health emergencies and, in some cases, loss of life. ### ​
12.20.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (D-MI) continued a Dingell holiday tradition, releasing the 2018 edition of the annual Dingell Jingle. Full text of the jingle can be read below. IT’S THE MOST WONDERFUL TIME OF THE YEAR It’s the most blunderful time of year With the President yelling And surrogates saying… it’s fine do not fear it will be different next yearrrr there’s nothing to fearrrr It’s the most blunderful time of the year It’s the mad-maddest season of all With 4am tweeting and oval office meetings And not getting his wallll It’s the mad-maddest season of all There’ll be tax cuts not working Healthcare for fixing And potholes still covered in snow There’ll be scary false stories And tales of the glories of Infrastructure bills of long, long ago It’s the most ridiculous time, of the year There’ll be many late-night meetings And covfefe flowing When Individual 1’s shutdown draws near It’s the most ridiculous time of the year There’s a new Speaker hosting The Blue Wave is growing And some decency back in DC There’ll be compromise needed And working together To get the bipartisanship of long, long agooooo It’s the most wonderful time of the year There is more that unites us Than which divides us When we hold others dear It’s the most blunderful time Yes, the most maddening time But the most wonderful time Of the year ###
12.13.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (D-MI) issued the following statement after receiving a classified briefing on the US military’s involvement in Yemen from Secretary of Defense James Mattis and Secretary of State Mike Pompeo: “The ongoing war in Yemen has caused endless suffering and is a serious humanitarian crisis. The decision to send the military to war is perhaps one of Congress’ greatest responsibilities. The Senate is having the debate the House should also be having. For the third time, the House has shut down debate by quietly sneaking it into a procedural vote. Today, House members received an update from military and diplomatic officials. Families in my hometown are telling me about horrific conditions. People are starving, homes have been bombed, diseases – including a cholera epidemic – are rampant, and too many have been lost to a reckless Saudi-led aerial bombing campaign. Congress has a moral responsibility to end the war in Yemen.” ###
12.11.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell issued the following statement after the Trump Administration announced plans to roll back protections for wetlands and clean water: “President Trump’s latest attempt to undermine environmental protections may be his most egregious attack yet. Growing up on the river, I remember swimming in dirty water and we couldn’t eat the fish we caught. The Clean Water Act has cleaned up our waters, got rid of pollutants and dangerous toxins, and protected the water from further contamination. The reality is streams and wetlands feed into our rivers, lakes, bays, and coastal waters. Congress cannot roll back the protections to maintaining clean water across the country.” ###
12.11.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) urged Michigan Speaker of the House Tom Leonard and the state legislature to reject a proposal to allow hazardous waste disposal facilities across Michigan to accept material up to ten times more radioactive than what is currently permissible under state law. The legislation proposes to increase disposal levels for TENORM, a technologically enhanced and naturally occurring radioactive material. Most TENORM waste is a byproduct of the hydraulic fracturing process for oil and natural gas, as well as from the mining industry, water treatment process, and some consumer products. In a letter to Speaker Leonard, Dingell said, “We must stand up for the health and safety of Michigan’s future generations and uphold strong environmental safeguards long-term—not cater to corporate interests. I would have hoped all Michigan leaders learned something from the Flint water crisis, apparently not. On behalf of my constituents and all the leaders, stakeholders, and communities who oppose this harmful bill, we urge you to oppose Senate Bill 1196 and not bring the bill to a vote.” The full letter can be read here and below. Dear Speaker Leonard: This letter is being sent in opposition to Senate Bill 1196. Passage and enactment of this bill is dangerous to communities in Michigan and would allow increased hazardous waste disposal in the state and most significantly in Wayne County communities in my district. The senate bill, introduced only last month, would allow hazardous waste disposal facilities across Michigan to accept ten times more radioactive waste than what is currently permissible under state law. In fact, the legislation proposes to increase TENORM (technologically enhanced, naturally occurring radioactive material) disposal levels above the accepted standard of 50 picocuries per gram, as proposed in a February 2015 report from the Michigan TENORM Disposal Advisory Panel created by Governor Rick Snyder. Most TENORM waste is a byproduct of the hydraulic fracturing process for oil and natural gas, as well as from the mining industry, water treatment process, and some consumer products. TENORM materials and the hazards associated with them are not well understood. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, according to its own website, admits they “do not completely understand all the potential radiation exposure risks it presents to humans and the environment.” We should not weaken any environmental regulations at the state or federal level if we don’t understand the potential risks. The aim of this bill would clearly benefit only one Type I disposal facility permitted to accept hazardous waste materials in Michigan. This facility, US Ecology Michigan, is located in Wayne County—where 1.7 million residents call home—and is looking to expand its facility to specifically take in more TENORM materials from out of state. In response, there is building opposition, including myself. The Wayne County Commission has also passed a resolution opposing the expansion plan for the facility. The policy of the bill, as well as the process, is concerning. Recently, Senate Bill 1196 was expedited through the legislative process and passed the Michigan State Senate last week. In the Michigan House it advanced out of the Natural Resources Committee and could be voted on as soon as this week. We must stand up for the health and safety of Michigan’s future generations and uphold strong environmental safeguards long-term—not cater to corporate interests. I would have hoped all Michigan leaders learned something from the Flint water crisis, apparently not. On behalf of my constituents and all the leaders, stakeholders, and communities who oppose this harmful bill, we urge you to oppose Senate Bill 1196 and not bring the bill to a vote. Ensuring the safety and well-being of our citizens and the environment should be our shared top priority. We should not be passing bills to allow more radioactive waste in Michigan. This is an issue that should rise above party. Thank you for your urgent attention and consideration of this important matter. Sincerely, DEBBIE DINGELL Member of Congress ###
12.07.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (D-MI), joined a group of her colleagues from Michigan and Ohio in formally inviting President Donald Trump to visit the communities impacted by General Motors’ decision to idle several North America plants. The invitation was led by Rep. Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) and was also signed by Reps. Tim Ryan (D-OH), Joyce Beatty (D-OH), and Rep.-Elect Andy Levin (MI-09). “Respectfully, we invite you to join us to visit the Lordstown Assembly, Warren Transmission, Brownstown Battery, Baltimore Operations and Detroit-Hamtramck plants, to meet the workers who will soon receive pink slips. This idling will impact over 14,000 workers, including the layoff of 3,300 production workers in the United States and 2,500 in Canada, and another 8,000 salaried employees,” the Members wrote. “We urge your Administration’s intervention in every manner possible to seek both short and long term remedies for these workers, the auto-part supplies that will also be impacted, and the communities sure to be severely impacted by these job losses,” the Members continued. “Our communities need deliverance on your promises to invest in and restore America’s manufacturing might and to put an end to the outsourcing of American jobs. We will work with you and your Administration to reinvest and modernize American auto manufacturing. Thank you for review of this urgent request,” the Members concluded. Read the full letter here. ###
12.07.2018	WASHINGTON – Representatives Paul D. Tonko, the top Democrat on the Energy & Commerce Environment Subcommittee, Ben Ray Luján (D-NM), Debbie Dingell (D-MI) and Peter Welch (D-VT) sent a letter to EPA Acting Administrator Andrew Wheeler today calling for greater transparency regarding any data, testing and consent agreements tied to commercial approval or environmental release of perfluorinated compounds (PFAS). Since the enactment of the Frank R. Lautenberg Chemical Safety for the 21st Century Act, EPA has been required to collect additional data before approving new chemicals under its chemical safety program. “We are writing to you on behalf of communities we represent that are concerned about the presence of perfluorinated compounds in their drinking water,” the letter reads. “EPA has allowed many perfluorinated chemicals onto the market since the launch of the PFOA Stewardship Initiative… [including] nearly 900 perfluorinated compounds.” The letter calls on EPA to release findings on the following questions no later than December 21, 2018: How many new perfluorinated chemicals has EPA allowed to enter commerce in the United States since the launch of the PFOA Stewardship Initiative? How many since the Lautenberg Chemical Safety for the Twenty First Century Act took effect? How many, if any, new perfluorinated chemicals has EPA blocked from entering commerce in the United States since the launch of the PFOA Stewardship Initiative? How many since the effective date of the Lautenberg Act? How many of the newly introduced perfluorinated chemicals were subject to consent orders requiring the development of test data? Provide all studies and test results submitted to EPA pursuant to consent orders on perfluorinated chemicals, as well as the anticipated completion date for any ongoing studies. How many of the newly introduced perfluorinated compounds were subject to limits on environmental releases? What monitoring or enforcement has been done to ensure those limits are followed? For each of these limited perfluorinated compounds, provide the locations where they are produced. Provide all monitoring data tracking compliance with environmental release limits imposed by consent orders on perfluorinated chemicals. ###
12.06.2018	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (D-MI) issued the following statement after meeting with GM CEO Mary Barra: "It was important that Mary Barra meet with the Michigan delegation today to address the high level of concern about the potential plant closings and keeping jobs in the Michigan and United States. A key issue we discussed was GM’s continued decision to locate product in Mexico – the most recent being the Blazer several month ago. This past year, GM produced 726,000 vehicles in Mexico. Over 80 percent of those vehicles were shipped to the US for sales to American consumers. In contrast, production at the GM plants targeted for closure was 165,000 in the US and 100,000 in Canada. GM’s excess capacity in North America has been created by GM’s investment decisions in the last several years. Product decisions made by the company have left US and Canadian plants with low volume. We want to keep that product here. “It’s clearly a very complicated time. This is a cyclical industry operating in an extremely competitive global environment. Other countries work hard to keep jobs in their countries, and we want to work hard to keep jobs in this country’s and support the hard-working men and women. We also want to make sure we are supporting policies that keep this country at the forefront of innovation and technology and the United States remain a world-wide leader in transportation and mobility.” ###
12.04.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Representatives Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and Ryan Costello (PA-06) introduced bipartisan legislation to strengthen the health care system’s identification, assessment and response to domestic violence, sexual assault and dating violence survivors with an expanded focus on accessing behavioral health and safety resources across the lifespan. Studies show a strong correlation between those receiving mental health and substance abuse services and the likelihood of domestic violence as a root cause. Between 31 and 67 percent of women in substance use disorder treatment programs report experiencing domestic violence within the past year and over 50 percent of survivors of domestic violence have experienced depression, Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD), substance abuse and suicidal thoughts. More collaboration is needed between health systems and community advocates to ensure victims have the support they need to escape the abuse and improve their overall health and safety. In an effort to bring together mental health and substance abuse treatment centers and domestic and sexual violence service providers, Dingell and Costello introduced the Violence Against Women Health Act. The legislation would build upon the 2013 Violence Against Women Act’s (VAWA) health title, a prevention and response initiative that trains health care providers and strengthens collaborations between public health and domestic violence agencies to better identify and serve victims of violence. The Violence Against Women Health Act expands training to behavioral health care providers on how to assess for signs of domestic violence and adds a focus on early childhood programs and abuse in later life to recognize the lifetime impacts of violence and abuse. “There is no reason a survivor should face hurdles when trying to connect with the services they need to recover,” said Dingell. “Medical professionals of all kinds can save lives through a referral to the appropriate domestic violence and sexual assault community services. Our bipartisan legislation brings together the fragmented mental health and domestic violence systems so we can best serve survivors.” So far, the VAWA Health Program has trained more than 13,000 health care providers to assess for and respond to domestic and sexual violence in over 230 clinical settings serving more than 1.3 million patients. “Growing a network of medical professionals who are trained to spot signs of abuse will strengthen communities,” said Costello. “Children and elders can be survivors too, we need to think outside the box on how to prevent violence across the spectrum.” You can read the text of the Violence Against Women Health Act here, and the summary here. In addition to Dingell and Costello, the Violence Against Women Health Act is co-sponsored in the House by Yvette Clarke (D-NY), Mimi Walters (R-CA), Kathy Castor (D-FL), Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Anna Eshoo (D-CA), Elise Stefanik (R-NY), Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-CA), and John Katko (R-NY). The legislation is also supported by numerous organizations including the American Academy of Neurology, American Psychological Association, American Geriatrics Society, American Association of Child & Adolescent Psychiatry, YWCA USA, Futures Without Violence, National Center on Domestic Violence, Trauma & Mental Health, DC Coalition Against Domestic Violence, Ujima: The National Resource Center on Domestic Violence in the Black Community, and National Network to End Domestic Violence. “Women and children who have lived through domestic violence and sexual assault require health professionals to provide services sensitive to the traumatic events they have experienced. The number of people affected by gender-based violence will only continue to increase as women and survivors are stepping out of the shadow of fear. It is crucial that health professionals meet them where they are, prevent re-traumatization, and recognize the long-lasting impact of violence throughout an individual’s lifetime,” said Alejandra Castillo, CEO of YWCA USA. “With support from VAWA Health Title, health providers have been key partners in helping identify and support victims of domestic and sexual violence – but there is so much more work to be done. Representatives Costello and Dingell are champions for woman survivors and their families and this bipartisan legislation is laying the groundwork for preventing and addressing the health impacts of violence and abuse across the lifespan,” said Esta Soler, President of Futures Without Violence. “As someone who has been working on issues related to violence against women for 40 years, it has taken a long time for policymakers to recognize the intersections between mental health, substance use and domestic violence and to support policies and services that address these concerns. While it is well documented that violence against women has significant mental health and substance use-related consequences, clinicians are frequently unaware of the types of abuse specifically targeted towards a survivor’s substance use and mental health. Common examples include: intentionally undermining a partner’s sanity and sobriety, preventing a partner from accessing treatment, sabotaging a partner’s recovery efforts, and using mental health and substance use issues to discredit a partner with potential sources of safety and support. Historically, addressing these less visible forms of abuse has been viewed as a secondary priority. By recognizing these links and supporting a new behavioral health pilot program along with enhanced research and data collection, we will be able to change the way behavioral health providers and systems respond to domestic violence.” said Carole Warshaw, M.D., Director of the National Center on Domestic Violence, Trauma & Mental Health. ###
11.30.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (D-MI) made the following statement after President Trump signed the United States Mexico Canada Agreement (USMCA): ​ “Simply giving NAFTA a new name won’t give us any new results. Jobs will continue to move out of the country and overseas until trade agreements put workers in America first. “The administration will try to sell this deal as a win for American workers. If President Trump is ready to bring stability to trade policy and to craft a deal that levels the playing field and brings jobs back to our country, I’ll work with him. But signing a document simply to say the President made a deal won’t help American workers and won’t keep jobs in the US. “Just this week we have witnessed the real effect of unfair trade policies as GM shutters more plants and leaves over 6,200 hardworking men and women’s jobs hanging in the balance. Americans deserve policies that will improve job stability and fair trade and not just words, but real actions.” ###
11.29.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (D-MI) named Dearborn-native and long-time aide Greg Sunstrum as her Chief of Staff. Sunstrum will take over for Peter Chandler, who will begin a new role with TechNet – a trade association advocating for the innovation economy – after serving in Dingell’s office for more than three years. “The ending of a Congress and the start of a new session often witness change as people decide to try new challenges and opportunities,” said Dingell. “Peter was an invaluable member of Team Dingell. For over 20 years, he dedicated his career to public service and improving the lives of working men and women, first for the people in Maine, and then in Michigan and across the country. Greg is well prepared to meet this new challenge and his experience will ensure a smooth transition into the next Congress. I’m proud of our team and look forward to continuing to serve the people of the 12th Congressional District.” Sunstrum has been Legislative Director and Deputy Chief of Staff since Dingell came to Congress in 2015. He advised Dingell in the areas of healthcare, autos, and pensions – issues she cares deeply about and are pivotal her legislative agenda. Sunstrum began his career on Capitol Hill working for Former Congressman John Dingell after graduating from the University of Michigan. Sunstrum grew up in Dearborn, MI. “Every day it’s an honor to come to work on behalf of the hard-working men and women of Southeast Michigan,” said Sunstrum. “Michigan’s 12th Congressional District is my home and I’m eager to continue fighting for the issues that will make a difference in the lives of Americans.” ###
11.29.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (D-MI) was elected by her colleagues to serve as Co-Chair of the House Democratic Policy and Communications Committee (DPCC). Dingell will work with DPCC Chair David Cicilline (D-RI) and fellow Co-Chairs Ted Lieu (D-CA) and Matt Cartwright (D-PA) to develop the Caucus policy agenda and communications strategy. “Thank you to my colleagues who elected me to serve as a Co-Chair of the Democratic Policy and Communications Committee. It’s an honor to join my colleagues David Cicilline, Ted Lieu, and Matt Cartwright to help shape Democratic strategy and message for the next two years. “Two years ago, I predicted Donald Trump could become President. I listened to people in my district and many of them didn’t think Democrats cared about them. During the next two years, no matter your district or background, we have to listen to the working men and women and show them we are going to deliver on issues that matter to them. They want good-paying jobs; access to quality, affordable healthcare; and after working a lifetime they want to have a safe and secure retirement. They want stable trade policies that keep manufacturing jobs in our country, and protections that keep our air and water clean while conserving the environment for generations to come. “Democrats also take seriously their Constitutional responsibility to hold the Administration accountable and to protect the fundamental civil rights of freedom of religion, speech and the press. “Democrats in Congress are already working hard for the American people, and I look forward to working with every single member of the Democratic Caucus. I’m honored to serve among leadership.” ###
11.29.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (D-MI) issued the following statement after the Pension Select Committee announced it could not reach an agreement by the November 30 deadline: “While it’s disappointing that the Joint Select Committee could not reach an agreement prior to November 30, our commitment to protecting pensions will not waver. The Committee did invaluable work in shining light on this looming catastrophe and bringing a diverse group of stakeholders together to discuss solutions to bring much-needed certainty and relief to worried pensioners. But there remains an urgent need to act. The PBGC will run out of funds by 2025 and millions of retirees pensions will be at risk sooner than that. Our to-do list only grows longer as we continue our work to find a solution that protects pensions workers have earned, gives employers the certainty they need, and puts the entire multiemployer system on solid footing going forward.” Pension Select Committee Co-Chairman Sherrod Brown (D-OH) and Orrin Hatch (R-UT) announced a commitment to keep working toward a solution to fix the pension crisis despite not meeting the November 30 deadline. ###
11.28.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (D-MI) made the following statement after Ford announcement about jobs: “Ford’s announcement today continues to be a warning about the strength of the auto industry in this country. We all must pay attention to what this means for workers, the industry, and the whole economy. While I am deeply disturbed at the elimination of a shift in my district, I appreciate Ford’s concern for their employees and their commitment to keeping jobs in the US. Democrats and Republicans must continue to work together to ensure we have a strong, healthy economy that supports workers, provides good-paying jobs, levels the playing field with strong consistent trade policies, and keeps our country as the world leader in transforming mobility.” ###
11.27.2018	TAYLOR, MI – Today, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (D-MI) made the following statement after a judge dismissed the Siddiqui Family’s lawsuit against the US Marine Corps: “We have a moral responsibility to hold those responsible accountable for Private Siddiqui’s death and continue to pursue justice for the Siddiqui family. No family should have to endure this kind of tragedy. I continue to believe that the coroner should revisit the suicide declaration as even the Marine’s investigation shows not all the facts were present at the time of the ruling. My office remains committed to serving the Siddiqui family through their loss and help them find any peace of mind possible.” ###
11.26.2018	DEARBORN, MI – Today, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (D-MI) made the following statement after GM’s announcement about jobs: “This is a warning and we all must be concerned about protecting jobs and keeping them in this country. I care deeply about working families hearing this news right now. If we want our auto industry to continue to be the global leader in transforming mobility, federal policy must ensure we keep them at the forefront of innovation and technology. Congress must work together on bipartisan policies that keep manufacturing jobs in this country, develops clean energy, and supports infrastructure to transform our mobility future.” ###
11.19.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (D-MI) filed official public comments with the Department of Homeland Security and US Citizenship and Immigration Services in opposition to a proposed rule that changes longstanding immigration policy on the “public charge” determination. The Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, if finalized, would fundamentally change who is allowed to enter or stay in the United States based on their use of public benefits in the future. The proposal broadens the “public charge” definition, expands the types of benefits for consideration, and suggests introducing an unprecedented income test and negative factors against immigrants seeking a visa or permanent legal status including being a child or a senior, non-English speakers, poor credit history, having a large family, or a treatable medical condition. In her public comments, Dingell wrote, “Diversity is one of this nation’s greatest strengths. The proposed rule would make harmful changes to longstanding immigration policy on the “public charge” determination, which fails to live up to our shared American values. On behalf of many of my constituents who work in assisting immigrants to build new lives and all those who could be affected, we object to the changes in the proposed rule and urge you to withdraw it.” Dingell continued, “We need to put a human face on this debate. The proposed rule would unfairly penalize a pregnant mother, here under expiring Temporary Protected Status and receiving Medicaid, seeking a green card to stay in the country with her husband, or a graduate student with DACA status who incurred a medical bill because they were not eligible for health insurance under the Affordable Care Act and now has a temporarily low credit score. The United States has always kept our doors open for those seeking a better life for them and their families and we should not retreat from that commitment.” You can read Dingell’s public comments in full here. ###
11.16.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Representatives Debbie Dingell (D-MI) and Fred Upton (R-MI) introduced bipartisan legislation to extend financial protections to seniors who receive long-term care in their home or a community setting. Medicaid – the primary payer for long-term care, services, and supports – includes protections to prevent a spouse from depleting all their financial resources due to a significant others’ long-term care needs. In order to maintain Medicaid eligibility, beneficiaries with a family member needing long-term care, services, or supports may be put in a situation where they need to “spend down” their resources, or potentially bankrupt themselves, in order to get the care they need. Under current mandates, spousal impoverishment protections in Medicaid prevent unnecessary financial harm in cases where one spouse needs long-term care in a nursing home or institutional care facility. But protections for care at home or in the community – which tends to be less costly and less disruptive for families – are due to expire in a few weeks at the end of the year. In an effort to erase the institutional bias that has led seniors to choose more costly nursing homes over impoverishment, Dingell and Upton have introduced the Protecting Married Seniors from Impoverishment Act. The legislation permanently extends spousal impoverishment protections for Medicaid beneficiaries receiving long-term care in a home or community care setting. “Our long-term care system is broken,” said Dingell. “Seniors and their families already face too many challenges when navigating long-term care, and they should not have to get divorced or go broke just to be eligible for the care they need. Our bipartisan bill permanently extends spousal impoverishment protections to seniors no matter if they are receiving care in home, in the community, or in a nursing home facility.” “Long-term care for our seniors and their families should be about improving quality of life,” said Upton. “Our bipartisan bill does that. It will help seniors protect their nest eggs and improve home and community-based services here in Michigan and across the country. I’m glad to partner with Rep. Dingell to push this much-needed fix across the finish line.” You can read the text of the Protecting Married Seniors from Impoverishment Act here. The Protecting Married Seniors from Impoverishment Act is supported by the National Council on Aging, National Academy of Elder Law Attorneys, Autistic Self Advocacy Network, Autism Society of America, Community Catalyst, National Association for Home Care & Hospice, Jewish Federations of North America, LeadingAge, National PACE Association, Center for Medicare Advocacy, National Association of Councils on Developmental Disabilities, Center for Public Representation, and Justice in Aging. “Older Americans needing long-term care are more likely to be able to stay out of nursing homes if they are married. Current law makes no sense - federal Medicaid protections for spouses of nursing home residents are permanent, but protections for spouses of those getting home care expire at the end of this year. The National Council on Aging (NCOA) strongly supports legislation introduced by Rep. Dingell to address this bias, keep older couples together, and reduce unnecessary nursing home placement,” said Howard Bedlin, Vice President for Public Policy and Advocacy of the National Council on Aging. “Individuals who require assistance with daily activities should be allowed to age in place and not be forced to go into a nursing home simply to protect their spouse from becoming poor. That’s why we are extremely thankful to Rep. Dingell for introducing a bill to extend the mandate that Medicaid’s spousal impoverishment protections for nursing home care also apply to home and community-based services,” said Michael Amoruso, President of the National Academy of Elder Law Attorneys. “Justice in Aging strongly supports the Protecting Married Seniors from Impoverishment Act because it will give married seniors and people with disabilities a meaningful choice to age in place with their spouse and stay connected to their families and communities, without fear of financial ruin,” said Kevin Prindiville, Executive Director of Justice in Aging. ###
11.14.2018	WASHINGTON, DC - After House Republican Leadership denied a floor vote on a War Powers resolution that would end U.S. involvement in the Yemen conflict, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell issued the following statement: “The war in Yemen has cost thousands of lives and created a devastating humanitarian crisis, and U.S. participation in this conflict was never authorized by Congress. By preventing debate on the Yemen War Powers resolution, the current Republican leadership is abdicating Congress’ Constitutional responsibilities in favor of short-term political considerations. U.S. military involvement in the Yemen conflict must be addressed by Congress, and I will continue to work with my colleagues to ensure that this resolution receives the consideration that it deserves.” ###
11.01.2018	DEARBORN, MI – Open enrollment for healthcare insurance begins today and will be available through December 15, 2018. Michiganders and people and across the country can explore their options for affordable health insurance at www.healthcare.gov for the next six weeks. This is critical for individuals and families that do not have employer-sponsored healthcare plans. Exploring all options for health insurance could save them money, there may also be assistance and subsidies and many may find a plan that better suits their healthcare or family’s needs. Free, impartial help is available for consumers with questions by calling 1-800-318-2596 (open 24 hours a day, 7 days a week) or visiting localhelp.healthcare.gov to find an assister or navigator in your area. Healthcare Open Enrollment ends on December 15, 2018 for coverage starting January 1, 2019. ###
10.19.2018	DEARBORN, MI – Today, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) sent a letter to United States Postal Service Postmaster General Megan J. Brennan highlighting reported absentee voter issues in Michigan’s 12th District. Dingell’s office was contacted by multiple voters who had their ballots improperly forwarded back to their home after completing the form this week. “USPS’s response to these concerns has been prompt and thorough thus far, but the nature of this issue has the potential to affect many absentee ballots in the State of Michigan,” wrote Dingell. “These issues appear to be related to the design of the Michigan absentee ballots, which have bar codes on both sides of the envelope that can result in misreading by USPS machinery. Michigan residents deserve to have confidence that their absentee ballots will be processed without delay or issue, and it is important that we take seriously any concerns in this regard.” The full letter can be read here and below. October 19, 2018 Ms. Megan J. Brennan Postmaster General and Chief Executive Officer United States Postal Service 475 L’Enfant Plaza S.W. Washington, DC 20260 Dear Ms. Brennan, This letter is to follow up on a mail issue discussed in the past weekly conversation between your staff and mine on pending constituent concerns. We need to ensure Michigan residents have confidence in their ability to vote absentee via mail in the upcoming election without issue. In the past several days, problems with the processing of absentee ballots have been raised by constituents in communities across Michigan’s 12th district. Multiple individuals have reported problems where the completed absentee ballot was improperly returned to their home address rather than to the clerk’s office. These issues appear to be related to the design of the Michigan absentee ballots, which have bar codes on both sides of the envelope that can result in misreading by USPS machinery. USPS’s response to these concerns has been prompt and thorough thus far, but the nature of this issue has the potential to affect numerous absentee ballots in the State of Michigan. With this in mind, this letter is to follow up on these concerns to ensure that USPS is working to swiftly and efficiently address any problems relating to the mailing of absentee ballots. We understand, for instance, that Ypsilanti and Ypsilanti Township post offices will hand scan ballots to ensure that they reach their proper destination. Michigan residents deserve to have confidence that their absentee ballots will be processed without delay or issue, and it is important that we take seriously any concerns in this regard. We know you were not the originator of the issue, but we all need to work together to ensure that every vote counts. Thank you and I look forward to your prompt response. Sincerely,
10.18.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) signed on as an original cosponsor of bipartisan legislation led by Rep. Jim McGovern (MA-02) to prohibit all U.S arms sales to government of Saudi Arabia until the Secretary of State determines that the Saudi regime is not responsible for the disappearance or death of Jamal Khashoggi. If the Saudi government is found to be culpable in Mr. Khashoggi’s disappearance, the legislation prohibits all U.S. military aid and sales to Saudi Arabia until Congress passes a resolution approving such sales. “It has been over two weeks since Jamal Khashoggi was last seen entering the Saudi consulate in Istanbul, and the American people deserve answers to the questions surrounding his disappearance,” said Dingell. “Congress must make clear that human rights and freedom of expression are a priority for the United States of America. It is imperative the Saudi government provides a full and fair accounting of the facts surrounding Mr. Khashoggi’s disappearance, and we must continue to push for transparency in this regard.” On October 2, 2018, Jamal Khashoggi, a US-based Saudi journalist and commentator on Middle East affairs, entered the Saudi consulate in Istanbul to fill out some paperwork relating to a pending marriage and has not been seen since. There is no record of Mr. Khashoggi having left the consulate, and there have been conflicting reports as to his fate and whereabouts. Last week, Congresswoman Dingell led a letter with 27 of her colleagues to the Saudi Ambassador pushing for an independent investigation into this matter.
10.12.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (D-MI) led 27 of her Democratic House colleagues in calling for the Saudi government to support an independent investigation into the whereabouts of Jamal Khashoggi, a US-based journalist and writer who went missing after entering the Saudi Arabian consulate in Ankara, Turkey on October 2. There is no record of Mr. Khashoggi having left the consulate, and there have been conflicting reports about his fate and whereabouts at this time. “The United States believes in a free and open press and takes the safety and security of those expressing perspectives on all sides very seriously, and we are concerned about these allegations and the fate of Mr. Khashoggi,” the lawmakers wrote. “Journalists around the world must be allowed to conduct their jobs without fear of retaliation. With this in mind, we are requesting the full cooperation of the Saudi government into an independent investigation of Mr. Khashoggi’s whereabouts.” In the letter to the Saudi Ambassador to the United States, Dingell and her colleagues call for the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia to cooperate fully with an independent investigation into Mr. Khashoggi’s whereabouts. The full text of the letter is available below. In addition to Dingell, the letter was signed by Representatives Alan Lowenthal (D-CA), Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ), Pramila Jayapal (D-WA), Jamie Raskin (D-MD), James P. McGovern (D-MA), Ro Khanna (D-CA), Jared Huffman (D-CA), Mark Pocan (D-WI), Adriano Espaillat (D-NY), Yvette D. Clarke (D-NY), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Susan A. Davis (D-CA), Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX), Terri Sewell (D-AL), Karen Bass (D-CA), Betty McCollum (D-MN), Keith Ellison (D-MN), Adam Smith (D-WA), Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY), Daniel W. Lipinski (D-IL), Al Green (D-TX), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), Steve Cohen (D-TN), Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX), Gene Green (D-TX), Jackie Speier (D-CA), and Barbara Lee (D-CA). Dear Mr. Ambassador: We are writing to you with concerns about the recent disappearance of Jamal Khashoggi, a prominent Saudi journalist and resident of the United States. Mr. Khashoggi was last seen entering the Saudi Arabia consulate in Istanbul on October 2, 2018, in order to fill out documents relating to a pending marriage. However, he has not been seen since this time, and there is no record of Mr. Khashoggi having left the consulate. Additionally, there have been conflicting reports circulating in U.S. and international media relating to his safety and whereabouts at this time. Mr. Khashoggi was a respected writer and journalist who has commented extensively on Middle East and Saudi matters. As a result of his criticism of the Saudi government, he had evinced fears for his safety and had relocated to the United States in July 2017 due to these concerns. The United States Constitution recognizes the importance of a free and robust media, and Mr. Khashoggi’s perspective and unique voice played a key role in providing context and understanding of the current events and latest developments in the Middle East political landscape. The United States believes in a free and open press and takes the safety and security of those expressing perspectives on all sides very seriously, and we are concerned about these allegations and the fate of Mr. Khashoggi. Journalists around the world must be allowed to conduct their jobs without fear of retaliation. With this in mind, we are requesting the full cooperation of the Saudi government into an independent investigation of Mr. Khashoggi’s whereabouts. We appreciate your consideration of this matter and look forward to a full and fair accounting of the facts of Mr. Khashoggi’s disappearance. ###
10.10.2018	Representatives Pramila Jayapal (WA-07), Debbie Dingell (MI-12), and Keith Ellison (MN-5), Co-Chairs of the Medicare For All Congressional Caucus released the following statement in response to President Trump’s Op-Ed on Medicare For All: “President Trump’s Op-Ed is littered with falsehoods and misleading statements. He lied to the American people countless times on his Presidential campaign, he continued to do so while in office and now he’s lying in this Op-Ed. He broke his promise to the American people by continuously attempting to usher in a health care plan that would have rolled back the progress of the Affordable Care Act and left millions without the coverage they need. Donald Trump simply can’t be trusted to protect health care for the American people - let alone talk about it accurately and honestly.” “The fact of the matter is that Medicare For All works and is popular. It promises to streamline our fragmented health care system to lower costs for drugs, procedures, and services. No one should be one health care crisis from bankruptcy. No one should be worried about obtaining lifesaving medicine due to cost or access. This caucus is committed to not only making sure that every American across the country has quality, affordable health care but also holding the President accountable for making meaningful improvements to our healthcare system instead of continuing to promote policies that take healthcare away from people.” ###
10.10.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Trump signed a bipartisan bill Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) led through committee and the House that bans the practice of prohibiting pharmacists from telling patients when less-expensive options to pay for prescription drugs may be available. “The cost of prescription drugs keeps going up while hard-working men and women are feeling the squeeze,” said Dingell. “Too many customers are paying more than they should when less expensive options are available. Patients deserve to have all the information when picking up their prescriptions. I thank President Trump for approving our bipartisan bill to ban gag clauses that I helped lead in committee and through the House. This is a good first step to making our healthcare system fairer and more affordable.” Currently, Pharmacy Benefit Managers (PBMs) are able to include requirements in contracts that prevent pharmacists from providing advice to their patients on the best and cheapest out-of-pocket alternatives to medications covered under insurance. This is commonly known as a "gag clause." As a result, patients may be paying more for their prescriptions than is warranted. Today, President Trump signed the Patient Right to Know Drug Prices Act, and the Know the Lowest Price Act which are companions to The Know the Cost Act, sponsored by Congressman Buddy Carter (R-GA) with Dingell as an original cosponsor. The bill prohibits group health plans offered by employers and individual health insurance plans, as well as Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D Plans, from restricting a pharmacy’s ability to inform a patient about the lower cost, out-of-pocket price options for their prescription. Additionally, the measure will require notifications to Medicare beneficiaries of the potential outcomes of paying out-of-pocket rather than with insurance. Dingell supported the bill as it went through the Energy and Commerce Committee in September. ###
10.10.2018	DEARBORN, MI – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) invites local students to participate in the Sending Smiles to Vets program by making Veterans Day, Thanksgiving and Christmas cards for local veterans. Since the Sending Smiles to Vets program was launched in 2015, students across southeast Michigan have pitched in to make thousands of cards thanking veterans for their service. “These handmade cards made with love and respect by young people mean so much to the veterans who have served our country,” said Dingell. “They remind our veterans that we are thinking of them and will never forget their service and sacrifice.” The cards will be delivered to veterans at the John D. Dingell VA Medical Center and the VA Ann Arbor Healthcare System for Veterans Day, Thanksgiving and Christmas. Dingell’s office will also be collecting valentines for the annual Valentines for Veterans delivery in February. Those who wish to have their cards included in the Veterans Day delivery should drop them off at Dingell’s Michigan offices between now and 4 p.m. on Wednesday, November 7, or call the Dearborn office at 313-278-2936 to arrange for pickup. Dearborn Office 19855 West Outer Drive. Suite 103-E Dearborn, MI 48124 Ypsilanti Office 301 West Michigan Avenue Suite 400 Ypsilanti, MI 48197 This is the fourth year Dingell led the Sending Smiles to Vets program after her Valentines for Veterans efforts received an overwhelming response from veterans, schools, and the community. The program engages young people on an ongoing basis to create cards and artwork for veterans celebrating various seasons and holidays. ###
10.05.2018	DEARBORN, MI – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) issued the following statement in celebration of National Manufacturing Day: “Manufacturing is the heart and soul of who we are in Michigan and continues to be the backbone of the American economy. The hard-working men and women in manufacturing have helped transform this country. Manufacturers in the US perform more than three quarters of all private-sector research and development in the nation, more than any other sector. From Henry Ford pioneering the Model T in 1908 to present-day autonomous vehicle testing in the heart of southeast Michigan, our state has remained in the driver’s seat of innovation for over a century. “Today, as we honor the men and women of the American manufacturing sector, we recommit ourselves to ensuring that workers are equipped with the tools they need to succeed today and tomorrow. This means closing the skills gap through technological education and keeping our workforce strong; raising the minimum wage and strengthening collective bargaining; and most importantly, working together – Democrats and Republicans – to renegotiate trade deals that pose a threat to jobs, wages, and the worker protections that labor fought tirelessly for. These critical measures ensure that the United States remains at the helm of the global economy.” ###
10.02.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – In an effort to crack down on robocalls and scammers, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) introduced legislation to give the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) the tools it needs to combat annoying and sometimes malicious and harmful calls that target the vulnerable including seniors. Last year the FTC received 4.8 million consumer complaints about robocalls, and that number continues to rise. Scammers show blatant disregard for the National Do Not Call Registry and use scare tactics to con their victims in to sending them money, often posing as the IRS, the FBI or a utility company and demanding immediate payment to avoid legal action. “Anyone with a ​cellphone has received a call from a number that looked to be local and turned out to be a scammer,” said Dingell. “At best these calls are annoying, at worst they scare people in Michigan and across the country into giving up hard-earned money. These scammers must be stopped.” Robocalls often target seniors or folks with little ability to pay and take hard earned money from those who need it most. These calls are evolving in complexity as well - gone are the days where a 1-800 number flashes on the caller ID. The tactic of local spoofing, using a phone number with the same area code and similar numbers to the recipient are on the rise, tricking people to picking up the phone thinking it’s a family member or loved one. Currently, the FTC lacks authority over phone companies that could help ensure that the consumer protection agency uses its expertise and enforcement strength to push the phone service providers to address this issue. The Creating Enforcement Authority to Stop Enablers (CEASE) Robocalls Act, would lift the common carrier exemption from the FTC, giving them the tools they need to combat these malicious calls often made through small Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) services. “This commonsense bill gives the Federal Trade Commission the tools they need to hang up the phone on scammers,” Dingell continued. “Too many VoIP services are exploiting protections and it’s costing vulnerable Americans.” You can read the text of the CEASE Robocalls Act here, and the summary here. ###
10.01.2018	Washington, D.C.—On Friday, President Trump signed into law H.R. 1109, bipartisan legislation authored by Representatives Tim Walberg (MI-07) and Debbie Dingell (MI-12) to help streamline the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission's (FERC) review process. This commonsense bill will allow FERC to focus on its mission of affordable and reliable energy. “I am pleased our legislation to reduce excessive regulatory barriers to affordable energy has been signed into law by President Trump,” said Walberg. “By applying a consistent standard for FERC’s reviews, we can reduce red tape, streamline the process, and ultimately save money for consumers. I’m grateful to Representative Dingell for her partnership in this effort to get bipartisan results for families in Michigan.”“Working men and women are feeling squeezed every day. This bipartisan effort will help by bringing down utility prices for Michigan families,” said Dingell. “This is an example of Washington at its best as we worked together to find solutions for the American people.” H.R. 1109 amends the Federal Power Act to ensure all energy transactions under FERC’s jurisdiction are subject to the same review standard, bringing the threshold for mergers and consolidations into line with other categories. ###
10.01.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) sent a letter to Memorial Sloan Kettering (MSK) Cancer Center with questions about on the use and sharing of patient medical data with Paige.AI, a computational pathology and medical artificial intelligence start-up, which has exclusive rights to use MSK’s library of 25 million pathology slides. Reporting from the New York Times and ProPublica uncovered an exclusive agreement between MSK and Paige.AI, detailing the financial conflicts of interest MSK has as equity holder in the company, with three additional MSK board members listed as investors. In a letter, Dingell raised concerns about the degree of consent patients gave for the use of their tissue slides, and whether the anonymization practices adequately protected patient identities. “While there are many potential advancements artificial intelligence applications will bring for patients and doctors alike, there are also many open questions about the impacts this technology will have on privacy and the use of deeply intimate patient data.” Dingell wrote. Dingell continued, “While this tissue slide images appears to have been anonymized there are still serious concerns about patient privacy and the degree of consent patients have given regarding the reuse and distribution of their information.” “While the breakthroughs that could potentially come from the use of artificial intelligence in medicine are life-changing for the millions of families across the globe impacted by cancer, we must ensure that patient confidentiality is protected at all times and that patients have the ability to choose where their data goes and for what purpose. The work Sloan Kettering has done and toward defeating cancer should be applauded, and prompt answers to these questions will give us confidence that your groundbreaking work will continue in an open, transparent and ethical way.” The full letter is available here and below: Dear Dr. Thompson, This letter is in regards to the relationship between Sloan Kettering Cancer Center and the company Paige.AI. While there are many potential advancements artificial intelligence applications will bring for patients and doctors alike, there are also many open questions about the impacts this technology will have on privacy and the use of deeply intimate patient data. A recent New York Times article detailing the relationship between Sloan Kettering Cancer Center and Paige.AI underscored those privacy concerns. The article details the agreement between Sloan Kettering and Paige.AI to use archives of patient tissue slides for both research and commercial purposes. While this tissue slide images appears to have been anonymized there are still serious concerns about patient privacy and the degree of consent patients have given regarding the reuse and distribution of their information. With that in mind, I respectfully request answers to my questions regarding this arrangement and the protection of patient information: Does Sloan Kettering get consent from all patients to have their medical information used by a third party when they are admitted to your facilities? Did Sloan Kettering get consent from all patients whose medical information was shared with Paige.AI? Were the tissue slides shared with Paige.AI images of slides, or the physical slides themselves? Are patients able to opt-out of third party use of this information? If patients were given the ability to opt-out of this type of disclosure, were those patients excluded from the 25 million tissue slides shared with Paige.AI? What level of anonymization was used when providing tissue slides to Paige.AI? Were any personal identifiers not anonymized? For example, family history, gender, age, residence, etc. What notice was patients given when images of their tissue slides were sold to Paige.AI? According to the New York Times report, much of the data sold to Paige.AI was generated prior to the development of artificial intelligence technology as it exists today. How were patients able to give consent that their personal medical information can be used by a technology that did not yet exist? What custodial obligations does Paige.AI have to protect patient information under this data sharing agreement? And do those obligations extend if Paige.AI declares for bankruptcy? Has Sloan Kettering entered in to agreements like the Paige.AI partnership with other companies? While the breakthroughs that could potentially come from the use of artificial intelligence in medicine are life-changing for the millions of families across the globe impacted by cancer, we must ensure that patient confidentiality is protected at all times and that patients have the ability to choose where their data goes and for what purpose. The work Sloan Kettering has done and toward defeating cancer should be applauded, and prompt answers to these questions will give us confidence that your groundbreaking work will continue in an open, transparent and ethical way. Towards that end, I request responses to my questions no later than close of business on Friday October 12, 2018. Sincerely, Debbie Dingell Member of Congress cc: Congressman Greg Walden cc: Congressman Frank Pallone ###
09.28.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed another tax cut for the wealthy that leaves behind working men and women in Michigan and across the country and could add $3 trillion more to the US Debt: “Hard-working men and women deserve better than another tax plan that leaves them behind, increases the debt, and compromises the future of Medicare and Social Security. Our country is facing a pensions crisis. Unfortunately, House Republicans have once again left Democrats out of the conversation and passed more tax cuts for the wealthy and big corporations. We should be working together on bipartisan tax reform that puts working families first, makes our tax code simpler and fairer, and promotes a strong economy. “Compounded with the first tax cuts, this legislation will add trillions more to the debt and will only further starve the government of revenue it needs to pay for Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid – programs that the American people rely on for healthcare and a secure retirement. It cannot be stated enough: people paid into their Social Security and their pensions with the promise it would be there for them. It’ll be detrimental to the entire economy if we make cuts now.” ###
09.28.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the House of Representatives passed a package of bipartisan bills to address the opioid epidemic, including bills introduced by U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12). Three the bipartisan bills, the Advancing Cutting-Edge (ACE) Research Act, Jessie’s Law, the Safe Disposal of Unused Medication Act, and the Opioid Screening and Chronic Pain Management Alternatives for Seniors Act were introduced with Republicans. “I’ve lived all sides of the opioid epidemic,” said Dingell. “I lived in a household with a father who was an opioid addict before anyone really understood it, and my sister ultimately died of a drug overdose. Yet, I live with a man who is in chronic pain who needs pain pills to live life comfortably. We must make sure we don’t forget the 25 million Americans living in pain who require help. This is a good first step, but much more needs to be done. This critical legislation will save lives but we must ensure we keep a balance for those in need.” The legislation approved by the House includes: The Advancing Cutting-Edge (ACE) Research Act, legislation introduced by Dingell and Rep. Fred Upton (MI-06) to spur urgently needed research on new non-addictive pain medications. The bill provides the National Institutes of Health (NIH) with new, flexible authorities to conduct innovative research on ways to prevent, treat and cure diseases, including vital research to respond to public health threats like the opioid epidemic. For more information, please click here. Jessie’s Law, legislation introduced by Dingell and Rep. Tim Walberg (MI-07) named after Michigan resident Jessie Grubb who tragically died of an opioid overdose last year. Jessie’s Law would help ensure doctors have access to a consenting patient’s prior history of addiction in order to make fully informed care and treatment decisions. Providing this information would help prevent cases like Jessie’s, where a recovering addict in Ann Arbor was unknowingly prescribed and discharged with a powerful opioid that led to her death. For more information, please click here. The Safe Disposal of Unused Medication Act, legislation Dingell introduced with Rep. Walberg to help prevent the misuse or diversion of unused medications by allowing hospice professionals to safely dispose of unused drugs after a hospice patient’s death or after the medication is no longer needed. The Opioid Screening and Chronic Pain Management Alternatives for Seniors Act, legislation Dingell introduced with Rep. Larry Buschon (IN-08), would ensure that the “Welcome to Medicare” wellness exam includes a review of the beneficiary’s current opioid prescriptions and screening for potential substance use disorder ###
09.26.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Heidi Heitkamp (D-ND) and U.S. Representative Debbie Dingell (D-MI)— both members of the bipartisan Joint Select Committee tasked with solving the nationwide multiemployer pension plan crisis— today submitted thousands of personal stories penned by workers and retirees whose families would be devastated by the sudden loss or reduction of their pensions. The submission includes hundreds of stories from North Dakotans and Michiganders. Without action from Congress, a total of 1.5 million retirees nationwide who are part of various pension funds could see their retirement savings drastically cut. To gather input about the potential challenges faced by retirees and to help craft a legislative solution to the pension crisis, the Committee has been gathering feedback from workers, retirees, and employers through an email inbox. Heitkamp and Dingell are encouraging all impacted workers, retirees, and business who have not already sent their stories and suggestions to email JSCSMPP@finance.senate.gov by September 30, 2018. Click here to read over 100 of the 1,000-plus stories submitted by workers, retirees, and their families impacted by the pension crisis. “The personal stories we submitted today are powerful. They’re stories shared by men and women across the country who worked hard for decades, often in physically demanding jobs, and played by the rules to provide for the long-term futures of their families. Even though they were responsible and saved for retirement, they’re finding themselves stiffed through no fault of their own. It’s just wrong,” said Heitkamp. “The members on the Committee need to hear these stories. The government managed to bail out Wall Street when times were tough, but it’s now dangerously close to shirking its commitment to look out for workers when they need it most. These workers deserve every ounce of help we can give them, and I’ll keep fighting for a bipartisan solution to this mess.” “It’s impossible to read these stories and not be spurred to action,” said Dingell. “Failure is not an option for the Pension Committee. These thousands of stories are only a sampling of the stories I hear every single day. Hard working men and women are desperate because they don’t know what their options are if their pensions aren’t there.” “This pension is my main income, and losing it would cause me to have to sell my home. I have had several back surgeries from the work I was doing, and it would be hard for me to find employment with my medical record,” Larry Schaff, retired UPS driver, Mandan, North Dakota. “This pension is something I worked very hard for, and losing it would be devastating to my family. This pension loss would not only affect the pensioners, but it would cost the government millions or even billions for the people it pushes into financial uncertainty.” “With the help of always working, and having a good well-paying union job that included good medical coverage, we have lived comfortably. Work has never been an easy job, but we have always looked forward to our retirement,” said Dennis Germain, retired Teamster, Southgate, Michigan. “If we should lose or even have our pensions cut, this will hurt not only my family, but our children’s family, the church we got to, and our local community. Taxes, food, medicine, mortgage, vehicles, insurances for home, health, and vehicles will also be in jeopardy of being unpaid. We need our pension without any cut, just to survive.” “My husband, Quinten, lost his life four years ago at the young age of 49 after a short battle with cancer. Knowing he was the main income provider, he feared I would struggle without him. As scared as I was, I assured him the kids and I would be okay,” said Annette Hausauer, Mandan, North Dakota. “One thing that brought him peace of mind was that he had 20 years vested in a pension—and that one day I would be able to draw my portion. I’m encouraging members of Congress to fight for the rights of all pension recipients— especially those who can no longer fight for themselves. I’d also like to thank Senator Heitkamp for helping write and introduce the Butch Lewis Act and for raising awareness about this very important issue.” “Not only is it a present worry for me, but I have spent my life being a hard-working, responsible person planning for my future as I grow older, and now the threat of not being able to survive at the age of 68 is very real,” said Larry Baldwin, Southgate, Michigan. “Everything I have worked for is at stake. The risk of losing everything, even my home is real. I stood by my company during the difficult years by taking concessions, believing at the time in my loyalty to the fund.” A recent analysis from the American Enterprise Institute found that the collapse of the Central States Pension Fund— just one of the pension funds in distress around the country— would cause serious harm to the nationwide economy. The analysis concluded that the fund’s collapse would lead to the loss of nearly 300 jobs in North Dakota and over 5,000 jobs in Michigan— as well as more than 55,000 jobs lost across the country by 2025. The study also found that GDP would decline by more than $5 billion. Click here to read the full report. To prevent a major economic burden on workers, retirees, and American taxpayers, Heitkamp and Dingell also stressed the need for Congress to work to find a legislative fix to the growing pension problem, such as through her Butch Lewis Act— which Heitkamp helped write and introduce last November. The Select Committee will provide a process for Congress to consider this bill and work toward a bipartisan solution that can solve the pension crisis. Heitkamp and Dingell both fought to be appointed to the Committee, which is required to hold public meetings and hearings focused on retirees, current workers, and small businesses. The Committee consists of 16 members, including eight senators and eight congressmembers, equally divided between Republicans and Democrats. The Committee has instructions to report a bill by the last week of November 2018. ###
09.26.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) announced her interest in serving as a co-chair of the Democratic Policy and Communications Committee (DPCC) for the 116th Congress. Dingell asked for her colleagues' support in a letter to her House Democratic colleagues. Dingell is a former member of the DNC and has spent much of her adult life working in the trenches of organizing and strategy. She understands the frustration of Caucus Members who each have a unique district and wants to discuss with each of her colleagues how Democrats weave their districts concerns and support them as strategies are developed and implemented. “My district has every different type of Democrat – from the retired autoworker from Taylor, Michigan, to the activist student from Ann Arbor, from the hunters from Downriver to the Imam at the mosque in Dearborn – and I talk to everyone about everything,” wrote Dingell. “We must tell voters what we stand for and how Democrats will help improve their lives. That means sticking to our core values, our convictions, and our history. It is very important that the Heartland be one of the perspectives represented by one of the three co-chairs. We need to communicate our values in a clear, consistent manner to voters who are looking for strong and passionate leadership in this era of uncertainty and chaos.” The DPCC, the messaging arm of House Democrats’ leadership, is tasked with developing a Caucus-wide message for House Democrats. The leadership is comprised of three co-chairs elected by all House Democrats serving in the 116th Congress, which will begin in January 2019. Dingell feels strongly that a perspective from the Heartland needed to be represented by one of the co-chairs. You can read Dingell’s letter here. ###
09.26.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – The House of Representatives passed bipartisan legislation including provisions by Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) to strengthen and evaluate emergency preparedness procedures for hospitals and long-term care facilities. Dingell wrote the Worst-Case Scenario Hospital Preparedness Act in the aftermath of the 2017 hurricane season, which caused flooding and power outages at hospitals and medical facilities from Florida to Puerto Rico, resulting in public health emergencies and, in some cases, loss of life. The bipartisan legislation, co-sponsored by Florida Republican Daniel Webster, was included as a part of the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness and Advancing Innovation Act of 2018. “The time to prepare for a disaster is now and we must include our whole community in those plans. We have to take lessons learned from the historic disasters we have recently experienced to ensure hospitals, nursing homes, and long-term care facilities are fully prepared when disaster strikes,” said Dingell. “I’m pleased to see my bipartisan bill that will make a difference was included in this package as it advances through Congress. We have to look to new policies and procedures to improve our preparedness and readiness for future generations.” The U.S. Department of Homeland Security lists health care as one of 16 critical infrastructure sectors. The included provision seeks to improve emergency preparedness across the health care system by directing the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services to engage with the most appropriate entity to conduct a comprehensive study into the future threats impacting emergency preparedness procedures for hospitals, long-term care facilities, and other healthcare facilities. The study will provide Congress with a report (within 3 years) on new recommendations, benchmarks, best practices, and expert analysis on: current emergency preparedness programs, policies, and regulations; identifying gaps in preparedness and new policies that better address all future threats across the health care system; improving Federal grant programs to assist health care facilities; evaluating federal grant programs that assist healthcare facilities with expertise in emergency power systems and critical infrastructure; and evaluating the coordination between federal grant programs for emergency preparedness and environmental health agencies. ###
09.25.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Representatives Debbie Dingell (MI-12), Fred Upton (MI-6), and Tim Walberg (MI-7) received a commitment from the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) that the agency will come to Michigan for a meeting on PFAS chemicals in drinking water. The lawmakers will continue to work with the EPA on finalizing a time and location. You can read the EPA’s response here. “Michigan has been hit hard with the number of PFAS confirmed sites growing rapidly over the last few years,” Dingell, Upton, and Walberg said in a joint statement. “We thank the EPA for committing to see first-hand the extent of the growing PFAS contamination problem Michigan is confronting. We will work with the State of Michigan and the EPA to finalize a time and place for this meeting.” Earlier this month, the Environment Subcommittee of the Energy and Commerce Committee held a hearing on per- and polyfluoroalkyl substance (PFAS) in which an EPA official committed to sending experts and senior officials to Michigan to discuss PFAS contamination sites. The EPA had originally planned a public meeting in Michigan, but later pulled it from the schedule. Dingell, Upton, and Walberg followed up with the EPA’s commitment in a letter following the hearing. ###
09.25.2018	DEARBORN, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) invites 9-12th grade students, families, high school counselors, veterans and servicemembers to attend Military Service Academy information sessions on Saturday, September 29 and Tuesday, October 16. The events will provide an opportunity for students, parents, and counselors to meet with representatives from the service academies, hear from Congresswoman Dingell, and learn more about the nomination process through her office. “Our nation’s service academies offer young people the opportunity to receive a world-class education while serving our country,” said Dingell. “These schools provide exceptional education and training to prepare young men and women for leadership roles in our military. I’m proud that our office can be a resource for students interested in attending one of our nation’s prestigious service academies.” For more information, please call Dingell’s Dearborn office at 313-278-2936. Saturday, September 29, 2018 WHAT: Dingell Hosts Military Service Academy Information Session WHO: Rep. Dingell Representatives from the U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, U.S. Military Academy, and U.S. Naval Academy WHEN: Saturday, September 29, 1-3 pm WHERE: Wayne County Community College, Ted Scott Campus, Room D100 9555 Haggerty Road, Belleville, MI 48111 Tuesday, October 16, 2018 WHAT: Dingell Hosts Military Service Academy Information Session WHO: Rep. Dingell Representatives from the U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, U.S. Military Academy, and U.S. Naval Academy WHEN: Tuesday, October 16, 5-7 pm, WHERE: Washtenaw Community College, Morris Lawrence Building, Room ML 150, 4800 E. Huron River Drive, Ann Arbor, MI 48105 ### ​
09.25.2018	DEARBORN, MI – Today, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) testified at a National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) and Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) public hearing in Dearborn, MI on the proposed notice of rulemaking to modify fuel economy standards. She strongly urged the agency to focus on developing one national standard for fuel economy and that working with California was critical to achieving that goal. Dingell also said we should be setting standards through 2030. The public hearing comes after NHTSA and EPA gave notice of proposed rulemaking in August to change existing fuel economy standards for model years 2021 through 2026. “Let me be clear – we need one national program for fuel economy with strong, reasonable standards that increase year over year and balance the twin goals of environmental protection and affordability. Nobody can deny that strong fuel economy standards have kept our environment clean, reduced our dependence on foreign oil and saved consumers money at the pump,” Dingell testified. “The next step in this process is critical. We need all stakeholders, including California, automakers, environmentalists and the Administration to stay at the table and reach consensus on standards that meet the dual goals of environmental protection and affordability. I also believe we should be setting standards through 2030. We all need to take a deep breath, roll up our sleeves and get to work on a negotiated solution. Everybody wins if we work together. Everybody loses if we don’t.” Dingell has long urged the Administration, California, and automakers to work together toward one national fuel economy standard for the health of the auto industry and the job it supports. You can read her testimony as prepared for delivery below: Good morning, I’m Congresswoman Debbie Dingell and I want to thank the EPA and NHTSA for coming to my hometown of Dearborn to get feedback on the future of fuel economy regulations. Here in Michigan, this is not an abstract or theoretical discussion – we are the car capital of the world and the decisions you are making will impact the future of our industry for years to come. Let me be clear – we need one national program for fuel economy with strong, reasonable standards that increase year over year and balance the twin goals of environmental protection and affordability. Nobody can deny that strong fuel economy standards have kept our environment clean, reduced our dependence on foreign oil and saved consumers money at the pump. The Administration has proposed several options, with the most unacceptable being the flatlining of fuel economy standards. Flatlining standards in harmful to American leadership and innovation, as well as the environment. Additionally, proposing to revoke California’s waiver is not helpful to achieving a negotiated solution to this issue. The next step in this process is critical. We need all stakeholders, including California, automakers, environmentalists and the Administration to stay at the table and reach consensus on standards that meet the dual goals of environmental protection and affordability. We all have to work together to ensure strong, workable standards that protect jobs and the environment and keep pace with innovation and technology so the United States remains competitive. Having one national program for fuel economy is absolutely essential for both industry and the environment. I also believe we should be setting standards through 2030. We all need to take a deep breath, roll up our sleeves and get to work on a negotiated solution. Everybody wins if we work together. Everybody loses if we don’t. ###
09.21.2018	SUPERIOR TOWNSHIP, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) announced that the Superior Township Fire Department will receive $1,138,546 in federal support. “When emergencies happen in our community, we know local firefighters will be the first on the scene to protect us,” said Dingell. “Firefighters and first responders go to work every day prepared to put their lives on the lines. This critical support for the Superior Township Fire Department will ensure our local first response agencies are properly equipped to serve our communities.” “We will be using the grant to buy air-packs for the firefighters,” said Superior Township Fire Chief Victor Chevrette. “Because several departments will take advantage of this grant, it will help unify the fire departments of Washtenaw County. Now, every department will have the same air-pack brand, making them interchangeable, and there will be a cost reduction of any maintenance needed on the equipment.” The Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG) program provides funding to local fire departments to enhance their ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel. ###
09.13.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – The House of Representatives passed a critical water infrastructure improvement bill that includes legislation introduced by Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) to improve the transparency of water quality and notifications to customers of public water systems. America’s Water Infrastructure Act of 2018 is a bipartisan compromise that authorizes $6.1 billion in federal funds for the Army Corps of Engineers to carry out new and existing projects critical to our nation’s economy, environment, and public health and safety. This reauthorization of the Water Resources and Development Act (WRDA) also includes important provisions from the bipartisan Drinking Water Systems Improvement Act passed out of the Energy and Commerce Committee—which included increased funding for the state drinking water revolving loan fund program critical to the Flint Water Crisis. The bill also includes support for aquatic invasive species research, development of technology to combat harmful algal blooms, authorizations for the Great Lakes Coastal Resiliency Study and updates to the Soo Locks, and other priorities important to the Great Lakes and efforts to protect clean water. Also critical to the people of Michigan and the country is expanded testing for unregulated contaminants public water systems, including per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS). Last week during a Congressional hearing, Dingell pressed the EPA to set one national standard on contaminants in drinking water and received commitments from the EPA to hold public meetings on PFAS chemicals in Michigan. “Every American has a right to clean and safe drinking water,” said Dingell. “We have a crisis of confidence in our drinking water systems and consumers deserve clear and immediate notifications and transparency when it comes to water quality. This is how Congress should work – and it is what the American people expect. The House and Senate came together in a bipartisan way to keep moving forward on this critical water infrastructure bill. It is my hope this good work will continue as Congress looks to address and improve the overall state of our entire nation’s infrastructure.” America’s Water Infrastructure Act of 2018 includes provisions from a stand-alone Dingell bill which makes consumer confidence reports on drinking water quality more frequent and easier for every American to understand. The provisions would require the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to instruct large drinking water systems to issue biannual consumer confidence reports, rather than annual, and increase the effectiveness and understandability of the reports to improve transparency and help prevent future drinking water crises. The bill now heads to the Senate before going President’s desk to be signed into law. ###
09.13.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today the House Energy and Commerce Committee approved a bill cosponsored by Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) that bans the practice of prohibiting pharmacists from telling patients when less-expensive options to pay for prescription drugs may be available. Currently, Pharmacy Benefit Managers (PBMs) are able to include requirements in contracts that prevent pharmacists from providing advice to their patients on the best and cheapest out-of-pocket alternatives to medications covered under insurance. This is commonly known as a "gag clause." As a result, patients may be paying more for their prescriptions than is warranted. The Know the Cost Act, sponsored by Congressman Buddy Carter (R-GA) and cosponsored by Dingell, prohibits group health plans offered by employers and individual health insurance plans, as well as Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D Plans, from restricting a pharmacy’s ability to inform a patient about the lower cost, out-of-pocket price options for their prescription. Additionally, the measure will require notifications to Medicare beneficiaries of the potential outcomes of paying out-of-pocket rather than with insurance. “Prescription drugs cost too much for too many and unfortunately, many customers are paying more than they should when less expensive options are available,” said Dingell. “On a recent trip the pharmacy, I was informed the prescription would cost $1300. After calling the doctor, the pharmacist and others, we found an alternative that cost $30. People stop me every day with similar stories. Patients deserve to have all the information when picking up their prescriptions. Banning gag clauses is a good first step to making our healthcare system fairer and more affordable.” The House is expected to consider the Know the Cost Act before the October recess. ###
09.12.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – The House of Representatives passed two bipartisan bills by Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) to improve Medicare so seniors have better access to the healthcare they need. “Every American has a right to quality, affordable healthcare and for millions of seniors their care comes through Medicare,” said Dingell. “We have to always keep looking forward and finding new ways to improve Medicare, make it more efficient, and close gaps in care. These two bipartisan bills now passed by the House will make it easier for seniors to access care in their community and reduce waste and fraud in the program. These efforts will strengthen Medicare so generations of seniors are able to access its benefits.” The House has passed the Comprehensive Care for Seniors Act which Dingell introduced with Indiana Republican Jackie Walorski. This bill directs the Center for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) to finalize regulations related to a law passed in 2015 to make improvements to the Program of All-Inclusive Care for the Elderly (PACE). The Comprehensive Care for Seniors Act will give certain seniors the ability to remain in their community instead of going to a nursing facility. Additionally, the House passed the Fighting Fraud to Protect Care for Seniors Act which Dingell introduced with Illinois Republican Peter Roskam. This bill establishes a pilot program to test the use of smart card technology to crack down on waste, fraud, and abuse in the Medicare program. Dingell is a steadfast supporter of Medicare in Congress. She has repeatedly fought against efforts to cut funding or benefits for Medicare recipients. ###
09.12.2018	DEARBORN, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) announced that the Dearborn and Pittsfield Township Fire Departments will receive a combined $600,000 in federal support to acquire new vehicles. The Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG) will go directly to the local fire departments to help them acquire new vehicles including pumpers, aerials, brush trucks, tankers and tenders, rescue vehicles, and ambulances. “When emergencies happen in our community, we know local firefighters will be the first on the scene to protect us,” said Dingell. “Firefighters and first responders go to work every day prepared to put their lives on the lines. This critical support for the Dearborn and Pittsfield Township Fire Departments will ensure our local first response agencies are properly equipped to serve our communities.” Dearborn Fire Department will receive $200,000 and Pittsfield Township Fire Department will receive $409,091. The AFG grant program provides funding to local fire departments to enhance their ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel. ###
09.11.2018	TRENTON, MI – Today, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) issued the following statement after the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) proposed adding the McLouth Steel Site in Trenton, MI to the Superfund Program’s National Priorities List: “Proposing to add McLouth to the National Priorities List is an important step toward helping Trenton and the surrounding communities clean up the site and protect the ground and water. This site has been idle for decades with multiple environmental incidents over that period of time. While efforts have been made to use local resources to clean up the site, it’s clear the federal government needs to get involved. The EPA’s proposal is critical for public health and the economic benefit to the community. There is still a long road ahead of us, but I’m encouraged by everyone’s vigilance in working together. Now is the time to stop looking backwards and begin looking toward the future and focusing on what the community needs.” ###
09.10.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement after the Trump Administration ordered the closure of the Washington, DC office of the Palestine Liberation Organization: “Closing the Palestinian Office in Washington will make it harder to engage diplomatically and further erode prospects for a lasting peace in the Middle East. The US must be an honest broker between the Palestinians and Israelis. Closing the PLO office, along with designating Jerusalem as the capital and cutting aid to Palestinian refugees, raises tensions and will make it more difficult to address the root causes of the conflict as a result.” ###
09.07.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Health Subcommittee approved Congresswoman Debbie Dingell’s (MI-12) and Congressman Brett Guthrie’s (KY-02) Ensuring Medicaid Provides Opportunities for Widespread Equity, Resources (EMPOWER) and Care Act (H.R. 5306), which will help certain Medicaid participants receive long-term care in their homes or communities if they voluntarily choose to receive in-home care. The EMPOWER Care Act reauthorizes the federal Money Follows the Person (MFP) demonstration program for one year. This program allows certain Medicaid users, such as seniors and individuals with disabilities, transition from a nursing home or institutional care back to their home. Since the MFP program was created over a decade ago, it has successfully helped over 88,000 individuals receive care in their own homes. The MFP program does not require people to leave institutional care; rather, it allows individuals who choose to go home to do so. “Our long-term care system is completely broken. Unfortunately I am witnessing its problems firsthand and am meeting people in crisis almost daily,” said Dingell. “The Money Follows the Person program has demonstrated it works, has strong bipartisan support, and saves taxpayers money by successfully transitioning thousands of people from institutions to a community setting where they can be with their loved ones. This is why I’m proud to author the EMPOWER Care Act with my friend and colleague Congressman Brett Guthrie to reauthorize the program. Advancing this bill through the Health Subcommittee is a critical step to getting it signed into law this year, and I’m looking forward to working with my colleagues on the Energy and Commerce Committee to ensure we get this done.” “There’s a reason we named our bill the EMPOWER Care Act – because we want to empower individuals with disabilities and seniors to choose the care that works best for them,” said Guthrie. “Kentucky Transitions, which administers the MFP program in the Commonwealth, has allowed hundreds of Kentuckians in nursing homes and other institutions to choose to go back to their own homes for care, and other states have had similar success. This program is a cost-effective way for people to receive the care that is best for them where they want to be. I was proud to introduce this bill with Congresswoman Dingell and I urge the full committee to approve this bill as soon as possible.” Now that the Health Subcommittee has approved the EMPOWER Care Act, it must be marked up by the full Energy and Commerce Committee before heading to the House floor for a vote. ###
09.07.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – After the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) committed to holding a meeting in Michigan on PFAS chemicals in drinking water, Representatives Debbie Dingell (MI-12), Fred Upton (MI-6), and Tim Walberg (MI-7) followed up on the commitment and called for details to finalize a time and place. Thursday, the Environment Subcommittee of the Energy and Commerce Committee held a hearing on per- and polyfluoroalkyl substance (PFAS) in which an EPA official committed to sending experts and senior officials to Michigan to discuss PFAS contamination sites. The EPA had originally planned a public meeting in Michigan, but later pulled it from the schedule. “Michigan has been hit hard,” the lawmakers wrote. “The number of PFAS confirmed sites has been growing rapidly over the last few years. According to the State of Michigan, there are now 35 confirmed PFAS contamination sites and the public is seriously concerned. While there is more work to do, the state is aggressively testing, tracking, and working to combat PFAS. The State of Michigan fully supports an EPA visit and is looking forward to hosting. It is invaluable for EPA to see first-hand the extent of the growing PFAS contamination problem we are confronting.” Recently a “Do Not Eat” fish advisory was issued for the Huron River due to elevated PFAS levels. The town of Parchment, MI also recently had a crisis with PFAS in their water supply, and there are major contaminations at several military installations in Michigan as well. PFAS chemicals are man-made and linked to certain cancers and serious health problems. You can read a copy of the lawmakers' letter to the EPA here or below: Dear Acting Administrator Wheeler: As members of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, we thank the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) for testifying before the committee on the growing presence of perfluorinated chemicals across the nation. This letter is to follow up on the commitment made by EPA yesterday to send senior officials to Michigan to discuss per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS). We welcome EPA to Michigan and look forward to this important visit as soon as possible. Michigan has been hit hard. The number of PFAS confirmed sites has been growing rapidly over the last few years. According to the State of Michigan, there are now 35 confirmed PFAS contamination sites and the public is seriously concerned. While there is more work to do, the state is aggressively testing, tracking, and working to combat PFAS. The State of Michigan fully supports an EPA visit and is looking forward to hosting. It is invaluable for EPA to see first-hand the extent of the growing PFAS contamination problem we are confronting. As you know, EPA originally planned to visit Michigan as part of its national tour to engage communities affected by harmful PFAS and to find ways for EPA to best support ongoing work occurring at the state, local, and tribal levels. We are pleased by the commitment made by EPA at yesterday’s hearing and hope the visit can happen very soon. In the coming days, we look forward to working with EPA, the State of Michigan, and all elected officials from the Michigan delegation to finalize logistics for your visit. ###
09.06.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today during a Congressional hearing, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) called on EPA to set one national standard on contaminants in drinking water and received commitments from the EPA to hold public meetings on per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS) in Michigan. Dingell urged the EPA to set a national maximum contaminant level (MCL) for all PFAS compounds so there is one national standard for all water systems to ensure safe drinking water. Currently, states may issue public health warnings when contaminants levels reach 70 ppt (parts per trillion) but there are no enforcement mechanisms. Dingell supports setting a maximum contaminant level for PFAS to reflect the severe health effects from even low levels of exposure. Dingell questioned why EPA had originally planned a public meeting in Michigan, but later pulled it from the schedule. During the hearing, Dingell, supported by her colleagues Michigan Republicans Fred Upton and Tim Walberg, received a commitment from the EPA to hold a public meeting on PFAS in Michigan. She questioned the State of Michigan on their response to the recent crisis in the state, and called on the state to improve and speed up testing procedures and communication practices for alerting the public of elevated levels. The Congresswoman also pledged to help the state get the resources they need to do the job properly. There are 35 sites across Michigan with confirmed PFAS contamination. Recently a “Do Not Eat” fish advisory was issued for the Huron River due to elevated PFAS levels. The town of Parchment, MI also recently had a crisis with PFAS in their water supply, and there are major contaminations at several military installations in Michigan as well. Perfluorinated chemicals are linked to certain cancers and serious health problems. “Clean water is a basic human right that every man, woman, and child deserves across every generation,” said Dingell. “There is an old saying that nothing lasts forever. Unfortunately, perfluorinated chemicals which were designed to stand the test of time and might last forever unless addressed. These chemicals can be found all around us and in recent years we have seen more and more cases of confirmed contamination sites in our environment and drinking water sources—especially in Michigan.” “As we continue to test for PFAS and as those tests improve, I fear this trend will continue,” Dingell continued. “Perfluorinated chemicals are man-made and will require a man-made solution from all of us working together. Every federal agency, every state and local official, and Congress needs to take this issue seriously and act. The most important action we can take now is to establish a national protective standard for PFAS, while exploring all other options.” Dingell pressed Carol Isaacs, the director of Michigan’s PFAS Action Response Team, regarding the PFAS contamination in the Huron River watershed and delays, of more than a year, in testing contaminated fish. “PFAS sites are growing across the state and we need every level government to take this contamination problem seriously. While the State of Michigan has been responding to PFAS more than most states, we can and need to do better. It is my understanding that the fish that resulted in a ‘Do Not Eat’ advisory was caught in May 2017, put in a freezer, and was not tested until very recently. It was 16-months later when the ‘do not eat’ fish advisory was put out. Why did that happen? Do you have the resources you need? How do we make sure we are responding in a timely way?” asked Dingell. “Also it’s disturbing that Michigan is not testing for GenX and potentially all harmful chemicals, including GenX. We cannot let another water crisis cripple Michigan or the country.” Additionally, Dingell urged officials from the EPA to establish a national protective drinking water standard for all perflourinated compounds. Dingell is the cosponsor of legislation to speed up EPA regulations to ensure information is getting to the public in a timely manner. ###
09.05.2018	Washington, DC – On the heels of Labor Day, Democratic Representatives Debbie Dingell (MI-12), Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11), Mark Pocan (WI-02), and Donald Norcross (NJ-01) today issued the findings of their “Future of Work, Wages, and Labor” initiative – launched in early 2016. The Members spent over two years traveling across the country and meeting with experts, labor leaders, and workers to develop policy proposals that address longstanding problems in the workforce and new trends like automation and contract workers. The comprehensive report goes beyond just identifying problems and provides solutions and options to confront the obstacles today’s workers face while preparing for the economy of the future. “Today’s culture of unchecked corporate power and maximizing profits has come at the expense of America’s workforce. Worker pay is stagnant and inequality is peaking, all while CEO pay rates shoot through the roof, wealthy executives are rewarded with stock buybacks, and corporations are turning profits like never before. The American worker needs help and they need help now,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. “I appreciate my colleagues joining with me in this effort to advance worker-centric policies and ultimately make the economy work for everyone, not just those at the top.” “Over the last several years, my colleagues and I have traveled across the country, meeting with hundreds of workers to discuss the ways in which we can address the most critical issues facing workers. The results of our conversations were clear: corporate power has reached historic levels, as has economic inequality and the weakening of workers’ rights. These outcomes are not merely coincidental and they demonstrate a serious need to repair our economic system and ensure that America’s working families are not left behind,” said Congressman Pocan. “Today’s report provides a path forward that will restore real power to employees, rein in the unchecked power that corporations use to suppress workers and wages, and grow and strengthen the American middle class. With these recommendations, we can create real change and restore the American promise that a job can provide economic security, an opportunity to get ahead, a brighter future for you and your family.” “To make our economy work for all of us, not just the rich and powerful, working people must be able stand and fight together for higher wages, better health care and a more secure retirement. I know how important it is for workers to have a voice in the workplace because I lived it. I sat at the negotiating table fighting for working families for decades, and I know we need to take smart, bold actions to help lift up America’s workers,” said Congressman Donald Norcross (NJ-01), a lifelong labor leader and an electrician by trade. “I was proud to host my colleagues in South Jersey to show them the economic revitalization in the City of Camden firsthand and assemble a labor leaders’ roundtable with the top advocates for New Jersey’s workers. After travelling from coast-to-coast listening to workers, academic experts and community leaders in each other’s districts, we’ve put together a package of solutions that will provide a bright future for working families – a future with higher wages, more job training programs and equal opportunities for all.” “Our labor policies must keep up with the rapid changes the 21st Century has brought,” said Dingell. “We travelled the country hearing directly from workers. They told us the decline in collective bargaining, worker representation and the ability to form unions doesn’t just hurt workers, it hurts our communities and our economy. Strong and updated labor laws are a necessity to fight income inequality, make the American dream accessible to anyone willing to work hard, and codify workers’ rights for the future – this is what the report is all about.” “The average American worker has not received a real raise in three decades. This is not an accident; it is the product of policy choices made across all three branches of government. We must do more to level the playing field,” said Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03). “I commend my colleagues for their hard work in developing this report and welcome their proposals as part of Democrats’ legislative agenda for the 116th Congress.” “This moment of historic collective action calls for a different approach, one where technology leads to better pay and working conditions for everyone and even greater prosperity for us to share in,” said AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka. “At the AFL-CIO, we are nearly a year into our own comprehensive process focused on shaping the future of work so it works for working people.” During the effort, the Members traveled more than 4,700 miles and held 9 public meetings. They hosted town halls with over 250 local workers, consulted over 100 experts and academics, and ultimately developed over 30 policy recommendations. A full copy of the Future of Work, Wages, and Labor report can be found here. For more information on the events hosted, experts consulted, and more click here. ###
09.04.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, US Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) issued the following statement on the departure of USA Gymnastics CEO Kerry Perry: “Our first responsibility is to protect children and during her short tenure as CEO, Perry was never transparent about what was occurring, her work, or what she was doing to change the culture at USA Gymnastics. There is still a lack of urgency behind addressing how we protect young people from physical and emotional abuse while maintaining the amateur status that allows young people to compete. Congress has a responsibility to ensure we are protecting all amateur athletes and determine what changes need to be made to protect the opportunities that these sports provide.” ###
08.31.2018	DEARBORN, MI – Today, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) issued the following statement after President Trump formally notified Congress of his intent to sign a new North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) this year: “Now that President Trump has notified Congress of his intent to sign a new NAFTA deal this year, we must see the details of his plans. Right now NAFTA is hurting workers in Michigan and across the country. While evaluating the deal, Congress must focus on bringing jobs to the United States and strong enforcement mechanisms. Canada is a critical trading partner, it’s imperative they are brought into negotiations. Things will only begin to improve when we have a deal that puts the needs of working people and their communities first.” ###
08.29.2018	DEARBORN, MI - Today, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) announced that that Arab Community Center for Economic & Social Services (ACCESS) in Dearborn will receive $125,000 grant from the Office of National Drug Control Policy and Drug-Free Communities Support Program to implement programs to prevent youth substance use, including abuse of prescription drugs, marijuana, tobacco, and alcohol. The ACCESS Substance Abuse and Tobacco Prevention/Cessation program provides Dearborn students and parents with the information and skills necessary to make healthy choices about drugs, alcohol, and smoking. Much of the program’s work focuses on the hookah or argileh, a tobacco water-pipe popular among Arab Americans and others. In addition to tobacco, the program educates local youth and parents on the risks of marijuana, alcohol, and prescription drugs. "This critical funding will help ACCESS continue their important work in addressing the serious risks of drug and tobacco use," said Dingell. "Tackling the substance abuse problem in our local community will need local solutions. I will continue to work with ACCESS and others to address the substance abuse and erase the stigma associated with mental health issues." “We thank Congresswoman Dingell for being such a pivotal voice in addressing the substance abuse crisis among our youth and greater community,” said Mona Makki, Director of ACCESS Community Health and Research Center. “We are witnessing an increasing number of youth using vaping devices, marijuana and prescription drugs. The funding from this program will allow us to further enhance our preventive efforts to address the epidemic and associated stigmas by empowering our youth to be the lead advocates in our community, and to allow their families to build a network of support. Our mission is to empower families and community partners to prevent and reduce substance use among youth, and this funding will help sustain our efforts into the future with the ultimate goal of becoming a drug-free community.” Prescription drug abuse prevention is one of the core measures of effectiveness for local Drug-Free Communities coalitions, and coalitions nationwide have led innovative opioid prevention initiatives. Drug-Free Communities’ 2017 National Evaluation End-of-Year Report found that at least 97% of middle school and 94% of high school youth report that they have not misused prescription drugs in the past 30-days in Drug-Free Communities. ###
08.27.2018	DEARBORN, MI – Today Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) issued the following statement after reports that US and Mexico have reached a preliminary agreement to renegotiate the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA): “We must bring jobs to the United States and I look forward to seeing the details of this preliminary agreement. Understanding the details is important, as well as understanding the impact on all stakeholders. NAFTA is hurting workers in Michigan and across the country. Things will only begin to improve when we have a deal that puts the needs of working people and their communities first.” ###
08.24.2018	DEARBORN, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today announced that the Ypsilanti and Dearborn Heights Fire Departments will receive a combined $1 million grant to boost the number of firefighters in those communities. The Staffing for Adequate Fire & Emergency Response (SAFER) Grants will go directly to the local fire departments to support the hiring of firefighters and the recruitment and retention of volunteer staff to enhance the department’s ability to maintain a 24-hour firefighting force. “When emergencies happen in our community, we know local firefighters will be the first on the scene to protect us,” said Dingell. “Firefighters and first responders go to work every day prepared to put their lives on the lines. This critical support for the Ypsilanti and Dearborn Heights Fire Departments will ensure our local first response agencies are properly staffed to serve our communities.” “For us, this SAFER grant is huge! We are going to be able to hire 4 additional staff members for fire suppression, increasing our staff size to 21 total. This will make for better response teams for the entire Ypsilanti area (including Superior TWP especially), adding 2 responders per call. We appreciate these grant opportunities when they come around, and we’re very happy to receive it,” said Ypsilanti Fire Chief Max Anthouard. “These SAFER Grants have really bolstered our ability to reach the manpower we need to respond to each scene. With this grant, we will be adding three firefighters to our team, which you help us meet (National Fire Protection Association) NFPA 1710, a national standard for proper staffing levels at a fire or fire scene. The SAFER grants have gotten us through some dark financial times, and we are grateful to receive another this year,” said Dearborn Heights Fire Chief David Brogan. As part of this announcement, Ypsilanti Fire Department will receive $667,429 and Dearborn Heights Fire Department will receive $341,836. The SAFER grant program provides funding to help recipients maintain 24-hour fire department staffing and more effectively protect the health and safety of the public and emergency response personnel with respect to fire and all other hazards. ###
08.24.2018	SOUTHGATE, MI – Congresswoman Dingell led a conversation of industry leaders about keeping the United States and Michigan at the forefront of developing and manufacturing electric vehicles, and ensuring the infrastructure to support electric vehicles so consumers have the confidence to buy electric vehicles. Joining Dingell were participants from Michigan utility companies, state energy and environmental agencies, auto suppliers, along with Ford and General Motors Earlier this year, California Governor Jerry Brown announced an ambitious $2.5 billion plan to boost electric vehicles and a network of charging stations. Dingell’s event Thursday focused on keeping Michigan and US industries competitive against China and other foreign competitors in the electric vehicle marketplace. “Michigan has always been leading the world in auto technology, and we have to ensure this continues to remain true moving forward,” said Dingell. “We must keep the US at the EV forefront. The government needs to ensure consumers have the confidence to buy electric vehicles including building the infrastructure to support EVs. There’s been a lot of interest in Congress in passing an infrastructure bill, and while I agree that we badly need to invest in improving our roads and bridges, we need to be thinking broader than that. We also need to be investing in the charging infrastructure communities will need to support increased deployment of electric vehicles, which will create a pathway to a clean energy future while supporting manufacturing jobs at the same time.” Dingell continued, “At the end of the day, this is about keeping the United States at the forefront of innovation and technology, and making sure that Michigan remains the global center of the auto industry.” Electric vehicles (EVs) represent a tremendous opportunity for the State of Michigan to continue to lead the world in developing the latest cutting edge automotive technology. Established auto industry leaders like Ford and General Motors have invested billions in developing EVs, and that investment extends down to suppliers like Visteon. DTE Energy and CMS are both working with the State of Michigan to establish EV charging pilot programs, and they are working closely with the auto industry to achieve these goals. Yet the key to success in the EV market is building consumer confidence. The issues that must be addressed include range, affordability, and the need for charging infrastructure. Thursday’s discussion highlighted how all stakeholders must work together to address these policy issues as well as to ensure the necessary charging infrastructure is built to support EVs. “In addition to the environmental benefits, electric vehicles are a catalyst for change in the architecture of the vehicle cockpit toward fully digital — enabling automated driving,” said Upton Bowden, director, advanced technology development, for cockpit electronics supplier Visteon Corporation. “We appreciate these kinds of forums that bring multiple stakeholders together to address the exciting opportunities ahead in mobility. At Ford, we announced earlier this year our $11 billion commitment to deliver 40 new hybrid and electric vehicles globally by 2022. Innovation and new technologies are key to our future and our ability to support our customers. Michigan will be at the center of our research and development and we will continue to work closely with Congresswoman Dingell and policy makers to support this investment and growth,” said Curt Magleby VP Government Relations, Ford Motor Company. “General Motors would like to thank Congresswoman Dingell for hosting today’s EV round table discussion. It’s a critical topic relevant to our vision of a zero emissions future. We are encouraged about the Congresswoman’s enthusiasm for ensuring that Michigan remains the automotive leader, especially as this industry makes transformational advancements in transportation,” said Britta Gross, Director, Advanced Vehicle Commercialization Policy, Global Public Policy - Environment and Energy, General Motors. “Consumers Energy appreciates the opportunity to share our thoughts with Rep. Dingell on the importance of supporting Michigan jobs and innovation by promoting electric vehicles,” said Brandon Hofmeister, Consumers Energy's senior vice president of governmental, regulatory and public affairs. “We support the addition of charging stations throughout Michigan, which we believe will remove a barrier to electric vehicle ownership.” “DTE believes that electrifying the transportation sector provides significant opportunities, including environmental improvements through zero-emission EVs and as we incorporate substantially more renewable energy and low-emission natural gas to produce electricity while reducing carbon emissions by more than 80 percent,” said Chuck Conlen, DTE Energy’s Executive Director of Electric Marketing and Economic Development. “Our customer base can also benefit from the additional load added to the system by spreading fixed costs over a greater volume of sales.” ###
08.22.2018	ANN ARBOR, MI – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) toured emergency departments at Michigan Medicine and St. Joseph Mercy Ann Arbor hospital to hear from doctors and hospital administrators on the challenges facing the US healthcare system’s front lines. Dingell scheduled this tour after meeting with ER physicians on the issues of treating opioid withdrawal in an effort to better understand how to address the Opioid Crisis and other challenges facing emergency departments. In addition, Dingell learned about the impact of the Affordable Care Act, Medicare, Medicaid, and mental health services in ER departments. Dingell, a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee with jurisdiction over many healthcare policies, called for improving the US healthcare system to better care for patients struggling with opioid addiction, mental and behavior healthcare, and access to affordable, quality health insurance coverage. “Emergency rooms are the entry point to the healthcare system for many Americans,” said Dingell after the visit. “Whether you are dealing with a crying child with a broken arm or suffering from a drug overdose, ER doctors, nurses, and staff have to be prepared for every situation that comes their way. The staff and facilities at Michigan Medicine and St. Joe’s are dedicated to serving our community, but there are clear issues that need to be address to help them provide better patient care. A critical issue is the shortage of mental health resources and beds, addressing the Opioid Crisis, and taking steps to ensure that every American can access affordable, quality healthcare and can go to the doctor before their health becomes and emergency crisis.” Photos from Dingell’s ER tour of St. Joseph Mercy Ann Arbor hospital ER are available here. “We were pleased to give Congresswoman Dingell an inside look at our emergency department and to share our concerns about the impact of government programs. We appreciate that she has taken time to seek out input from our Michigan Medicine team about the impact of the Affordable Care Act, the need for mental health services, drug shortages and the high cost of drugs along with the opioid crisis,” said David Spahlinger, M.D., president of the University of Michigan Health System, the clinical division of Michigan Medicine, the academic medical center of the University of Michigan. “Our top goal is the safety of our patients, and we are grateful that Congresswoman Dingell recognizes the importance of these healthcare issues.” "Behavioral health issues and substance abuse remain the two biggest issues facing our emergency departments, with approximately 3,500 of these patients treated in our Ann Arbor hospital alone since January 2018," said Rob Casalou, president and CEO of Mercy Health and Saint Joseph Mercy Health System. "In the past year, we have seen a 20 percent increase in volume and growing lengths of stay in our emergency departments due to bed availability throughout the state. Congresswoman Dingell was very receptive to discussing how we can work with policymakers to help solve challenges such as the difficulty finding adequate services for persons with substance use disorder, exploring options to better coordinate non-emergency care in settings less costly than emergency rooms, and how community health partners can come together to assist with social determinants of health, such as lack of housing and food access." As a member of the Energy and Commerce Committee, Dingell has advocated for improving the affordability and quality of healthcare and stood up to attacks to weaken or undermine the Affordable Care Act. Dingell is a founding co-chair of the Medicare For All Caucus which brings together like-minded members of Congress with the advocacy community to promote policies that will improve access to affordable, quality healthcare including single-payer healthcare proposals. She is also continuing the Dingell family tradition of fighting for universal healthcare coverage, including cosponsoring Medicare For All legalization in the House. Her father-in-law, John Dingell Sr., drafted the first legislation that ultimately led to the creation of Medicare (known as the Wagner-Murray-Dingell bill), and her husband, John Dingell Jr., introduced a single-payer healthcare plan every session he served in Congress. Earlier this summer, the House passed three bipartisan Dingell bills to combat the Opioid Crisis. The bills will spur research on new non-addictive pain medications, ensure doctors have access to a consenting patient’s prior history of addiction, and allow hospice professionals safely dispose of unused drug to prevent misuse or diversion of unused medications after a hospice patient’s death. All three bills were introduced with Michigan Republicans. ###
08.20.2018	TRENTON, MI – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) issued the following statement after meeting with Trenton Mayor and City Council to announce proposed agreement to clean up the McLouth Steel site: “The McLouth steel site has been an eyesore in this community for longer than we can remember. It sits as a symbol of the past and of tougher times. Now, it is time to stop looking backwards and begin looking towards the future and focus on what we need to do to keep this community strong. The top priority must be to ensure that the site is properly cleaned up and is not a safety or environmental risk to the residents of Trenton or surrounding Downriver communities. This agreement is a fundamental first step that allows us to turn to look towards future uses for the site. "There is still a long road ahead of us and I don’t want to give people a false sense of hope or optimism. So today is a time for hope but vigilance. We have had false beginnings before. But many have worked very hard to get us where we are today. The site needs to be cleaned up, the plant taken down, the ground and water cleaned up and protected. We have been talking for more than two decades. This agreement is an important first step, and I will continue working with Mayor Stack and other leaders to ensure that everyone has all of the information they need as we move forward, and that everyone has an opportunity to submit comments or get their questions answered.” ###
08.16.2018	DEARBORN, MI – Today, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) issued the following statement on the passing of musical legend Aretha Franklin: “John and I lost a friend. Aretha’s father was a true friend to John, helping him in his first election and fighting Civil Rights battles together in the 50s and 60s. Aretha was just a friend to me – there if I ever needed her. Aretha was complicated, loving and giving. Faith was important to her and the Church never left her. Her faith in Detroit and it’s people is what I will remember as much as her voice.”
08.09.2018	DEARBORN, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement welcoming Susan White as the new refuge manager of the Detroit River International Wildlife Refuge: “It is my pleasure to welcome Susan White back to Michigan as she assumes leadership at the Detroit River International Wildlife Refuge. As a Macomb County native, Susan knows that our lakes and wildlife are a way of life for those of us in Michigan. Her hands-on leadership and years of experience make her a perfect fit for the refuge, and I look forward to working alongside her to preserve and protect our wildlife and treasured land.”
08.07.2018	ALLEN PARK, MI – In recognition of Purple Heart Day, U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) met with former U.S. Army Private First Class Frank Puente of Allen Park who received the prestigious military honor after being wounded in service during the Vietnam War. After being contacted by Puente, Dingell’s office worked to secure the Purple Heart and ensure Puente’s contributions to our country were properly honored. Please click here for a photo. PFC Puente was injured in May 1968 while serving in a battalion in Vietnam. He was shot in the arm and left leg and then carried over a mile to a helicopter by his fellow soldiers. While in a Saigon hospital, the bullet was cut out of his leg and taped to his chest as proof of his wound suffered in combat. PFC Puente received the proper papers for a Purple Heart, but did not receive the medal until 2018, years after his selfless service to our country. “It was an honor to spend time with PFC Puente and recognize his service and sacrifice to our country,” said Dingell. “It is because of individuals like PFC Puente, who answer the call to serve with courage, valor and distinction, that we remain the land of the free and home of the brave. Today we thank him and all servicemembers on behalf of a grateful state and a grateful nation.” Purple Heart Day is celebrated each year on August 7, to mark the day the medal was first awarded in 1782 by George Washington, whose likeness appears on the medal today. To date, approximately 1.8 million Purple Hearts have been awarded for servicemembers killed or wounded as the result of enemy action.
08.02.2018	DEARBORN, MI - U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell released the following statement regarding the Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) released today regarding fuel economy regulations: “There are a variety of proposals put forward in this NPRM, with the most unacceptable being the flatlining fuel economy standards. Flatlining is harmful to American leadership and innovation, as well as the environment. We need strong, reasonable standards that increase year over year. Nobody can deny that strong fuel economy standards have kept our environment clean, reduced our dependence on foreign oil, and saved consumers money at the pump. “The next step in this process is critical. We need all stakeholders, including California, automakers, environmentalists, and the Administration, to stay at the table to reach consensus on standards that meet the dual goals of environmental protection and affordability. I also believe we should be setting standards through 2030 and not revoking California’s waiver under the Clean Air Act. The Administration must respect and understand the importance of California in this discussion so that we are all working together to ensure strong, workable standards that protect jobs and the environment and keep pace with innovation and technology so the United States remains competitive. “Having one national program for fuel economy is absolutely essential for both industry and the environment. We all need to take a deep breath, roll up our sleeves and get to work on a negotiated solution. Everybody wins if we work together. Everybody loses if we don’t.” ###
08.01.2018	TRENTON, MI – Today, U.S. Congresswomen Debbie Dingell (MI-12) added her support to others, including the State of Michigan and many local government officials, and urged the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) to include the McLouth Steel Corporation’s site in Trenton to the National Priorities List under the Superfund program. The site is currently under consideration by EPA for addition to the list of over 1,300 present sites considered to be the most hazardous in the United States that require national attention to safeguard human health and the environment. In her letter, Dingell highlighted the importance of adding this site as a national priority. This site has sat empty for decades and everyone in the community is committed to its clean up and restoration. The NPL designation would be an important step towards this ultimate goal. “The site sits at an important location on the Detroit River, which is both a critical source of drinking water for millions of people and an important international commercial corridor. This is why the site must be fully cleaned up, and not simply remediated, to prevent any further damage to our drinking water supply, our environment, or our economy,” wrote Dingell. “While protecting human health and the environment must be our first and most important goal, it is also important that any cleanup efforts result in the location being suitable for redevelopment.” The Environmental Protection Agency is required, under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, to maintain a National Priorities List to identify the most hazardous sites for the purpose of prioritizing cleanup actions. The NPL includes both non-federal sites and federal facilities that are deemed to present a sufficient level of risk to warrant listing. You can read a copy of the letter here or below. August 1, 2018 Mr. Andrew Wheeler Acting Administrator U.S. Environmental Protection Agency 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington D.C. 20460 Dear Acting Administrator Wheeler: This letter supports the nomination and inclusion of the McLouth Steel Corporation’s site in Trenton, Michigan, to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) National Priorities List. It is my understanding that EPA is currently considering adding the site to the list under the Superfund program so that a complete cleanup of the site can begin. As you know, there is a long history of environmental violations at this site spanning several decades. In 2007, the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality (MDEQ) cited 20 different violations at the site pertaining to the marking, storage, and conditions of hazardous waste containers. Furthermore, EPA took remedial action in November 2009 after there was a reported release of a green leachate liquid to prevent the pH levels in Monguagon Creek from exceeding safe levels. These are just a few examples of the known contamination at the site. The site sits at an important location on the Detroit River, which is both a critical source of drinking water for millions of people and an important international commercial corridor. This is why the site must be fully cleaned up, and not simply remediated, to prevent any further damage to our drinking water supply, our environment, or our economy. While protecting human health and the environment must be our first and most important goal, it is also important that any cleanup efforts result in the location being suitable for redevelopment. All stakeholders and the surrounding communities have been working hard for many years and are committed to working towards the same goal of fully cleaning up the site and redeveloping. The State of Michigan supports the inclusion of the Trenton site on the NPL, and resolutions of support have been adopted by the City of Trenton, Township of Grosse Ile, and City of Riverview. I add my support and urge EPA to include the McLouth Steel Corporation site in Trenton on the National Priorities List, as well as continuing to pursue all available options for the full cleanup of the site. Ensuring the safety and wellbeing of our citizens and the environment for future generations must be our top priority. Thank you for your attention and work on this important issue. Please do not hesitate to contact me if you have any questions or need any more information. Sincerely, DEBBIE DINGELL Member of Congress
07.27.2018	GROSSE ILE, MI – Today, Congresswomen Debbie Dingell (MI-12) stood up for Michigan by calling on the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to provide answers on its decision to close and relocate the Large Lakes Research Station on Grosse Ile. In a letter to the agency, Dingell highlighted the important emergency response operations, investigation services, and regional coordination that the Station provides to safeguards public health and the environment in the Great Lakes region. “The location on Grosse Ile has had a long history and evolving mission in service to the country,” said Dingell. “Closing it will weaken EPA’s ability to protect public health and the environment in the surrounding region. State and local governments, stakeholders, and communities are growing more concerned each day and fear the loss of this station will affect their livelihoods, jobs, and quality of life communities.” The Large Lakes Research Station is the base of operations for EPA first responders in the region. Workers at the Station lead cleanup efforts at hazardous waste sites and are on call to respond to major environmental events, for instance the Marathon refinery fire, Enbridge Line 6 rupture, McLouth Superfund sites, investigating former Detroit lead smelters, and the Flint drinking water crisis. In addition, the Station houses the Criminal Investigation Division that investigates such crimes as illegal storage and disposal of hazardous waste, improper removal of asbestos, illegal export of electronic waste, public corruption, and EPA program fraud. It also houses the Great Lakes National Program Office, which, together with federal, state, tribal, local, and industry partners, works to restore and maintain the Great Lakes Ecosystem. You can read a copy of the letter here or below. Dear Acting Administrator Wheeler: This letter is in regard to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) planned closure of the Large Lakes Research Station in Grosse Ile, Michigan. Its closure could be detrimental to the region, workforce, and the EPA’s ability to carry out its core mission to protect human health and the environment. As we approach fiscal year (FY) 2019, more clarity on the EPA’s decision is needed and a full status report of the timing of this closure is requested. The location on Grosse Ile has had a long history and evolving mission in service to the country. Starting in the 1920s, it served as Naval Air Station Grosse Ile and then transitioned in the 1960s to a laboratory for the Public Health Service before EPA took it over in the 1970s as a center for addressing pollutants and polluting activities on freshwater ecological systems. Today, the Large Lakes Research Station is the base of operations for EPA first responders in the region. These hardworking men and women lead cleanup efforts at hazardous waste sites and are on call to respond to major environmental events, for instance the Marathon refinery fire, Enbridge Line 6 rupture, McLouth Superfund sites, investigating former Detroit lead smelters, and the Flint drinking water crisis. In addition, the Station houses the Criminal Investigation Division that investigates such crimes as illegal storage and disposal of hazardous waste, improper removal of asbestos, illegal export of electronic waste, public corruption, and EPA program fraud. It also houses the Great Lakes National Program Office, which, together with federal, state, tribal, local, and industry partners, works to restore and maintain the Great Lakes Ecosystem. It is my understanding the station was expected to close originally in August 2018 and consolidated with the EPA’s National Vehicle and Fuel Emissions Laboratory in Ann Arbor. This move has been delayed many times and now has been postponed until March 2019. Constituents, stakeholders, and local governments in my district are growing more concern each day and fear the loss of this station will not only affect their livelihoods, communities, and jobs, but it will weaken the EPA’s ability to protect public health and the environment in the surrounding region. Attached to this letter are two resolutions supporting the EPA’s On-Scene Coordinators Office on Grosse Ile, for your reference and consideration. In addition, and on behalf of my constituents, please answer the following questions regarding the EPA’s decision to close and relocate the Large Lakes Research Station: What evaluation was used to determine the closure for Large Lakes Research Station? What assistance is being provided to affected employees? Many are concerned that the closure and move to Ann Arbor will result in a significant delay for emergency responders. Has EPA studied how this move and consolidation will impact emergency response times for environmental emergencies across the region? In the past, EPA policy had allowed emergency responders at the Large Lakes Research Station to take their emergency vehicles home when on call to improve response times. Has EPA studied, or would EPA consider reinstating this policy moving forward? As you know, in the FY18 Omnibus bill’s explanatory statement, it made clear the “Committees do not expect the Agency [EPA] to consolidate or close any regional offices in fiscal year 2018,” and “does not include any of the requested funds for workforce reshaping.”[1] Additionally, in testimony before the House Appropriations Committee on April 26, 2018, former EPA Administrator Pruitt stated that he was revisiting all planned office closures and would reconsider whether closure was indeed necessary or beneficial.[2] As the new acting administrator, are you committed to carrying out this same commitment to review all plans to close EPA regional offices? And should you deem that any EPA offices need to be closed in FY2019 or beyond, will you submit a programing request to Congress first as Administrator Pruitt committed to doing early this year? Three years ago, the EPA issued its “Conclusion of the EPA Lab Study: EPA Synthesis of Findings and Recommended Actions.” The presentation showed the EPA took in outside expert advice; balanced the EPA’s research, science, and technical support needs; and addressed Executive guidance and GAO recommendations to improve cost-effectiveness and reduce its footprint. The EPA determined the optimal scenario included keeping the Grosse Ile office as a field station. This assessment was a 30-year life‐cycle review of Agency assets, what changed? Has there been another similar comprehensive review? Thank you in advance for considering this important request that matters to many of my constituents. Any additional information you can provide me on the status of this office moving forward would be appreciated. Sincerely, DEBBIE DINGELL Member of Congress [1] H.R.1625 Vehicle for Consolidated Appropriations Act 2018, DIVISION G, Explanatory Statement, p. 50; https://docs.house.gov/billsthisweek/20180319/DIV%20G%20INTERIOR%20SOM%20FY18%20OMNI.OCR.pdf [2] Committee on Appropriations, Subcommittee on Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies, FY 2019 Budget Hearing - Environmental Protection Agency, April 26, 2018; https://appropriations.house.gov/calendar/eventsingle.aspx?EventID=395262
07.26.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congresswomen Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and Annie Kuster (NH-2) released a response from Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen to a request made by nearly every Democratic woman in the House for details about immigrant children separated from their parents, specifically young girls. You can read the lawmakers’ request here, and Nielsen’s response here. The Department of Health and Human Services has yet to respond. The response comes on the court-ordered deadline for the Trump Administration to reunite all children separated from their parents. Questions remain about how the Administration plans to handle the nearly 500 children whose parents have been deported. “Secretary Nielsen’s response left a lot to be desired,” said Dingell. “On the day when the courts have ordered all separated children must be reunited with their families, Congress is still in the dark on the conditions these kids were housed in. Congress has a responsibility to ensure all these kids, especially the girls, were cared for with the safety, support, and protection they deserve as human beings. These are children and it’s our job to protect them. This isn’t over, there are hundreds of kids who won’t be reunited today because their parents are no longer in the country.” “It’s bitterly disappointing that as the Administration is poised to miss a court imposed deadline to reunify children separated from their parents, Secretary Nielsen is unable to provide answers as to how DHS is ensuring the safety and wellbeing of children still in its custody,” said Kuster. “We outlined basic questions about the conditions of infants and young children who are still being held, but those concerns were not addressed by Secretary Nielsen. Regardless of one’s political persuasion, we can all agree that the safety of children and babies held by the U.S. government is paramount.” ###
07.25.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, during a hearing of the Joint Select Committee on Solvency of Multiemployer Pension Plans, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) reiterated her call for the urgent action needed to address the Pension Crisis. During the 5th hearing of the Committee since its formation earlier this year, Dingell called on the Committee to get to the task of crafting a negotiation that will save thousands of pensioners from cuts. “Failure is not an option for any of us on this committee,” said Dingell. “This hearing is for us to hear from the stakeholders, but I’ve been hearing from the stakeholders every single day. I have stories of working men and women who are desperate and almost driven to suicide because they don’t know what their options are if their pensions aren’t there.” Dingell offered to return to Washington or travel to wherever her colleagues are during the August recess to work on negotiating a final plan to address pensions before the November 30 deadline. She then turned her questions to highlighting how workers had little to no ability to make decisions or were even informed about the financial stability of their pension plans. Dingell continued, “Workers gave up pay increases and sacrificed compensation to at the time because of the promise of a safe and secure retirement. We are talking about what will happen to the economy, what will happen to our communities, and what will happen to human beings across this country if we don’t address this pension problem. We have a moral responsibility to protect the retirement people have earned through a lifetime of work. The time to act is now.” Last week, Dingell brought together House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi, other members of Congress, Teamsters General President Jim Hoffa, UAW President Gary Jones, and other leaders of multiple unions for a standing-room only townhall meeting in Detroit. The leaders heard directly from American workers and retirees of how the potential cuts and other issues are already deeply frightening. More than a dozen people shared stories of forgoing raises in order to add to their pensions, but now they are facing pay cuts of more than 70 percent. Pensioners described the impossible task of having to choose between putting food on the table or paying for prescriptions because the pension they were relying on is no longer there. Dingell has made fighting for a solution to the pension crisis a top priority since coming to Congress. She was appointed by Leader Pelosi to the Joint Select Committee on Solvency of Multiemployer Plans which is instructed to report a bill by the last week of November that will be guaranteed an expedited vote in the Senate without amendments. ###
07.25.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) issued the following statement on the passing of Sergio Marchionne, Chairman and CEO of Fiat Chrysler Automobiles: “I am very sad about Sergio Marchionne. He was brilliant, focused, strategic, intense and helped Michigan and the industry I love. Sergio taught me over the years many things and he was a friend, not afraid to yell, but then could laugh so ever hard. Our community should celebrate his life and be thankful for his many contributions.” ###
07.24.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) issued the following statement standing with American Federation of Government Employees (AFGE) after President Trump issued three Executive Orders degrading the rights of federal workers to organize for better working conditions: “The attacks on unions and workers must stop. Throughout history, unions have stood up for better wages, safer workplaces, more secure retirements, and other benefits workers take for granted such as paid holidays. The President’s Executive Orders gut collective bargaining rights for federal workers and create an unjust workplace that ignores workers. I stand in solidarity with my brothers and sisters at AFGE in calling on the President to rescind these orders.” ###
07.24.2018	ANN ARBOR, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today announced that the Great Lakes Observing System Regional Association in Ann Arbor will receive a $585,702 grant to improve early warning systems for Harmful Algal Blooms (HABs) on Lake Erie. “In Michigan and across the region, harmful algal blooms are threatening the safe drinking water our communities get from Lake Erie,” said Dingell. “This vital support for the Great Lakes Observing System will help us better monitor toxic algal blooms and take action to lessen their effect.” “The Great Lakes Observing System is partnering with an extensive network of providers to increase access to environmental data,” said Great Lakes Observing System Executive Director Kelli Paige. “Getting that information into the hands of water treatment facilities and policy makers will improve management outcomes in the future.” The grant, from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), will build on the recent success of bringing together the key organizations that are leading the annual monitoring, reporting, and dissemination of HABs data as well as representatives from the user groups affected by HABs, especially drinking water treatment plant operators. This improved system will allow all water managers and researchers in the Lake Erie region to have timely and user-friendly access to critical monitoring data during future blooms to help them make informed decisions about activities and resources affected by HABs presence and toxicity. This is the second time NOAA has awarded such a grant to Great Lakes Observing System. ###
07.20.2018	DETROIT, MI – Today, U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) brought together House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi, other members of Congress, Teamsters General President Jim Hoffa, UAW President Gary Jones, and other leaders of multiple unions for a townhall meeting in Detroit. The leaders heard directly from American workers and retirees affected by the pension crisis about the urgent need to take action to protect pensions. More than 30,000 Michiganders and 1.5 million workers and retirees nationwide are facing drastic cuts to their pensions due to the looming insolvency of multiemployer pension plans and the Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation. At a standing room only event Friday with close to 800 attendees, American workers and retirees told stories of how the potential cuts and other issues are already deeply frightening. More than a dozen people shared stories of forgoing raises in order to add to their pensions, but now they are facing pay cuts of more than 70 percent. Pensioners described the impossible task of having to choose between putting food on the table or paying for prescriptions because the pension they were relying on is no longer there. “The potential for pension cuts is already having devastating effects on the working men and women in Michigan,” said Dingell. “Every day I hear from people who are scared to death. This is not an academic debate; this is about people’s lives. Today provided the opportunity for my colleagues to hear real stories firsthand. These people have worked hard, played by the rules, put money into pensions thinking they were safe. Our job is to protect their investment for a secure retirement. We must act this year.” The townhall was part of House Democrats’ economic agenda calling for “A Better Deal: Better Jobs, Better Wages, Better Future.” The agenda centers on three key goals: raising the wages and incomes of American workers and creating millions of good-paying jobs, lowering the cost of living for families and building an economy that gives working Americans the tools to succeed in the 21st century economy, including through ensuring every American worker who earned a pension should keep it – without a dollar in benefit cut. “Protecting Americans’ pensions is an urgent moral priority,” said Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi. “I salute the relentless leadership of Congresswoman Debbie Dingell to defend every American’s right to the dignity of a good retirement and to ensure every worker and retiree is heard. Together, we must safeguard the pension and health benefits that working families have earned, and give the American people A Better Deal that lowers their costs, increases their pay and protects their freedom to join a union to fight for better futures.” “I want to thank Nancy Pelosi, Debbie Dingell, and all members of Congress who’ve joined us for this critical discussion about the future of pensions in America. It is imperative that Congress act as soon as possible to protect millions of active and retired workers who face an uncertain future due to the pension crisis,” said Jim Hoffa, Teamsters General President. Dingell has made fighting for a solution to the pension crisis a top priority since coming to Congress. She was appointed by Leader Pelosi to the Joint Select Committee on Solvency of Multiemployer Plans which is instructed to report a bill by the last week of November that will be guaranteed an expedited vote in the Senate without amendments. ###
07.19.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Members of Congress announced the Medicare For All Congressional Caucus with Representatives Debbie Dingell (MI-12), Pramila Jayapal (WA-07), and Keith Ellison (MN-5) serving as co-chairs. At its launch, the Medicare For All Caucus has more than 60 members, nearly one-third of House Democrats. “It is an honor to co-chair the Medicare for All Caucus because if you live in America, you have a right to affordable, quality healthcare and we must work together to get there,” said Dingell. “When you go to the doctor you shouldn’t be worried about how you are going to pay for it, and if you get diagnosed you shouldn’t have to turn to crowdfunding to afford treatment. Our coalition of more than 60 members of Congress and advocacy partners is united in focusing on policies that will make our healthcare system more fair, more affordable, and to ensure everyone has coverage. Medicare for All promises to streamline our fragmented healthcare system to lower costs for drugs, procedures, and services. It’s why I am so excited to be a co-chair of this important caucus.” The Caucus was launched during an event Thursday on Capitol Hill. The Medicare For All Caucus brings together like-minded members of Congress with the advocacy community to promote policies that will improve access to affordable, quality healthcare including single-payer healthcare proposals. Dingell is a cosponsor of Medicare For All in the House. As a member of the Energy and Commerce Committee, Dingell has advocated for improving the affordability and quality of healthcare and stood up to attacks to weaken or undermine the Affordable Care Act. She is also continuing the Dingell family tradition of fighting for universal healthcare coverage. Her father-in-law, John Dingell Sr., drafted the first legislation that ultimately led to the creation of Medicare (known as the Wagner-Murray-Dingell bill), and her husband, John Dingell Jr., introduced a single-payer healthcare plan every session he served in Congress. A photo from the event is available here, and a livestream of the announcement is available here. ###
07.18.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, all four Michigan Democratic Members of Congress – Representatives Sandy Levin, Dan Kildee, Debbie Dingell, and Brenda Lawrence – issued the following joint statement: “We stand united in our shared goal of protecting national security. Today’s political gamesmanship orchestrated by Congressional Republicans and this Administration’s inhumane policies towards immigrants do not serve our nation well. Trust is vital for all law enforcement to do their jobs effectively and safely. We are all ready, willing, and able to work with all of our colleagues on comprehensive immigration reform and to keep our nation safe.” ###
07.18.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the House Energy and Commerce Committee advanced bipartisan legislation by Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) to strengthen and evaluate emergency preparedness procedures for hospitals and long-term care facilities. Dingell wrote the Worst-Case Scenario Hospital Preparedness Act in the aftermath of the 2017 hurricane season, which caused flooding and power outages at hospitals and medical facilities from Florida to Puerto Rico, resulting in public health emergencies and, in some cases, loss of life. The bipartisan legislation, co-sponsored by Florida Republican Daniel Webster, was included as a part of the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness and Advancing Innovation Act. “During last year’s hurricane season, we were all captivated and concerned with stories of nursing homes and hospitals that lost power for significant periods of time, which unfortunately resulted in the loss of life. We have to take lessons learned from these historic disasters to ensure hospitals, nursing homes, and long-term care facilities are fully prepared when disaster strikes,” said Dingell. “My bipartisan bill will make a difference as we look to new policies and procedures to improve our preparedness and readiness for future generations.” The U.S. Department of Homeland Security lists health care as one of 16 critical infrastructure sectors. The Worst-Case Scenario Hospital Preparedness Act seeks to improve emergency preparedness in the health care sector by directing the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services HHS) to engage with the National Academy of Medicine to conduct a comprehensive study into the future threats impacting emergency preparedness procedures for hospitals, long term care facilities, and other health care facilities. The study will provide Congress with new recommendations and expert analysis on: current emergency preparedness policies and regulations; identifying new policies that better address all future threats; improving Federal grant programs to assist health care facilities; and providing updated guidelines for alternative power systems and access to clean water. For a copy of the legislation, please click here. ###
07.18.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – The House of Representatives passed a bipartisan amendment by Representatives Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and John Moolenaar (MI-4) that supports the Great Lakes Science Center as a part of the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) Fisheries Program. The amendment was added to a federal government spending bill for the Department of the Interior. “We need more research to protect important ecosystems, like the Great Lakes, from invasive species and better understand how to conserve and protect important fishery resources,” said Dingell. “It is critical we maintain funding to continue USGS research and to enhance exploration in cutting-edge technologies to support fisheries management, native preyfish restoration, and invasive species control, as is being done at the Great Lakes Science Center.” “The Great Lakes are a vital part of Michigan’s outdoor heritage and this funding will support smart conservation of our fisheries so Michiganders can enjoy fishing on the Great Lakes for years to come,” said Moolenaar, a member of the House Appropriations Committee. Video of Dingell speaking on the House Floor about the amendment is available here. ###
07.16.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the House of Representatives easily passed a bipartisan bill supported by Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) to reform the way the Federal Drug Administration (FDA) regulates over-the-counter medications to make it easier for the agency to get new products to store shelves safely and quickly, and to address safety issues in a timely manner to protect consumers. The Over-the-Counter Monograph Safety, Innovation, and Reform Act, legislation Dingell introduced with Reps. Bob Latta (OH-05), Michael Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), Gene Green (TX-29), Diana DeGette (CO-01), and Brett Guthrie (KY-02) to reform the outdated over-the-counter monograph system. The legislation modernizes the monograph framework and allows new, safe products to come to market more quickly while addressing safety issues. Also, the legislation boosts the FDA’s budget for overseeing the over-the-counter drug industry and add staff. “The system for regulating over-the-counter drugs is broken, plain and simple,” said Dingell. “It doesn’t work for patients, it doesn’t work for companies, and it doesn’t work for the FDA. Companies cannot bring new, innovative products to market and the FDA cannot act quickly when they are faced with a safety risk. This is not reflective of how our healthcare system should be run and is putting patients at risk. The House passed our bipartisan legislation to bring the FDA and over-the-counter drugs into the 21st Century and make it easier to bring new, innovative products to market and to get dangerous drugs off the shelves.” Video of Dingell speaking on the House Floor about the bill is available here. The House overwhelmingly passed the bipartisan bill today. It now heads to the Senate for passage before heading to the President’s desk to be signed into law. ###
07.16.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell led 14 of her colleagues in standing up for survivors of domestic violence, harassment, stalking, or sexual violence in the military. The lawmakers pressed Congressional leaders negotiating the final text of the National Defense Authorization Act to include Senate provisions that authorize military judges and magistrates to issue and enforce military protective orders while providing offenders with due process procedures and a right to be heard. Currently, only military commanders can issue a military protective, or “no contact,” orders. The lawmakers are calling for servicemembers and military families the ability to reach out to a neutral, trained legal professional outside the military chain of command for protection from abusive or threatening individuals. The lawmakers wrote, “Protective orders are a commonplace and lifesaving legal mechanism for civilians in all fifty states, yet are constrained within military jurisdiction. Our servicemembers and their families should be able to access the same protections as their civilian counterparts while on active duty. Although expanding access to military protective orders won't halt every instance of stalking or assault, the enforceable legal procedures for police and military personnel will save lives.” Dingell led the letter, also signed by Reps. Tom O’Halleran (AZ-1), Jackie Speier (CA-14), Gwen Moore (WI-4), Julia Brownley (CA-26), Dan Lipinski (IL-3), Bill Foster (IL-11), Niki Tsongas (MA-3), Joe Kennedy (MA-4), Frederica Wilson (FL-24), Katherine Clark (MA-5), Doris Matsui (CA-6), Alma Adams (NC-12), Ann McLane Kuster (NH-2), and Juan Vargas (CA-51). You can read the letter here or below. Dear Chairmen McCain and Thornberry, and Ranking Members Reed and Smith: As witnessed in the tragedy at Sutherland Springs, domestic violence is an indicator of serious danger both to military families as well as the broader community. As you prepare to finalize the conference agreement on the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019, we are concerned about the limited avenues for servicemembers and their families suffering from domestic violence, harassment, stalking, or sexual assault to obtain a military protective order. We encourage conferees to adopt Section 544 of the Senate version, which authorizes military judges and magistrates to issue and enforce military protective orders for domestic violence, stalking and sexual assault while providing offenders with due process procedures of notice and a right to be heard. We believe such complex and dangerous situations need careful accountability at every level. Currently, only a commander can issue a military protective order with no similar authority given to a military judges or magistrates. Section 544 grants servicemembers and military families the right to petition someone outside of their chain of command for protection – a neutral, trained legal professional. It also unlocks a legal framework for alleged offenders to undergo due process. As an additional mode of protection, this provision maintains the authority of military commanders to issue ‘no contact orders’ to address safety concerns and for the good order and discipline of their unit. Finally, this provision ensures that protective orders issued by the Armed Forces meet the requirements for reporting to Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) databases to monitor and prevent firearm purchases as dictated by the Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act – compliance that could have prevented the Sutherland Springs massacre. Protective orders are a commonplace and lifesaving legal mechanism for civilians in all fifty states, yet are constrained within military jurisdiction. Our servicemembers and their families should be able to access the same protections as their civilian counterparts while on active duty. Although expanding access to military protective orders won't halt every instance of stalking or assault, the enforceable legal procedures for police and military personnel will save lives. Thank you for your consideration of our request to include Section 544 of the Senate version in the final conference agreement for the FY2019 NDAA. These measures are critical steps toward greater protection of military members, their families, and the public. ###
07.13.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) participated in a field hearing in Columbus, OH of the Joint Select Committee on Solvency of Multiemployer Plans. The hearing featured testimony from employers, participants, and retirees that are affected by multiemployer pension plans facing insolvency. Thursday and Friday, thousands – including a contingent from Michigan – gathered at the Ohio Statehouse in Columbus for a rally to save pensions. Video of Dingell’s speaking at the field hearing is available here. “Today we heard that significant benefit cuts for retirees will come at a human cost that cannot be overlooked, and could increase government spending because more people will have to rely on safety net programs to survive,” said Dingell. “That is why it is so important for my colleagues to see the human faces for themselves, the same ones I see every day in Michigan. This is not an academic debate; this is about people’s lives. And time is running short. We have two weeks left in July before the August recess. After this hearing this committee will have received testimony from academics, employers, active employees, and retirees. We’ve gathered all the facts we need and now we need to roll up our sleeves and start negotiation a solution we can all support.” The lawmakers heard testimony from: Roberta Dell, Chief Union Steward, Spangler Candy Company, Bryan, OH David A. Gardner, Chief Executive Officer, Alfred Nickles Bakery Inc., Navarre, OH Bill Martin, President, Spangler Candy Company, Bryan, OH Brian Slone, Apprentice Instructor, Millwright Local 1090, Dayton, OH Mike Walden, President, National United Committee to Protect Pensions, Cuyahoga Falls, OH Larry Ward, Retired Coal Miner and Former President of United Mine Workers of America, District 6, Hopedale, OH Dingell has made fighting for a solution to the pension crisis a top priority since coming to Congress and recently introduced the Butch Lewis Act that would ensure multiemployer pension plans remain solvent and continue providing retirement security for members. In 2016, she led a bipartisan coalition of 89 House colleagues in sending a letter to the U.S. Treasury Department urging the rejection of an application by the Central States Pension Fund to cut pensions by as much as 70 percent. Since the application was rejected, Dingell and her colleagues have been working with all stakeholders to find a solution that will shore up multiemployer pension plans without placing an undue burden on workers and retirees. Dingell was appointed to the Joint Select Committee in February by Democratic Leader Pelosi. The Joint Select Committee was created as part of the overall budget compromise that passed in February. The committee has instructions to report a bill by the last week of November, and is required to hold at least five public meetings, including the option of field hearings outside of D.C., so members of Congress can hear directly from retirees, workers and businesses affected by the pension crisis. The solution the committee produces will be guaranteed an expedited vote in the Senate without amendments. The Joint Select Committee is chaired by Senators Sherrod Brown (OH) and Orrin Hatch (UT) and made up of 16 members appointed by House and Senate leaders, equally divided between the House and Senate, Republicans and Democrats. ###
07.11.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) raised questions about the privacy protections of cell phone location data during a hearing in the Communications and Technology Subcommittee. Video of Dingell’s questioning at the hearing is available here. “Consumers are consistently losing control of their private information across the board,” Dingell said in the hearing. “First it was Equifax, then it was Facebook. Now, we’ve also learned that LocationSmart, a third-party aggregator of cell site location information was making Americans’ location data available to anyone with an internet connection. And when we’re talking about where someone’s phone is, what we’re really talking about is our real-time location any minute of the day, because I think just about everyone in this room has their cellphone in their purse or their pocket right now. These breaches of trust cannot become normal, and I worry that with each passing scandal, we’re becoming numb to the gross invasions of our privacy.” A survey by the Pew Research Center found that 91 percent of adults agree or strongly agree that consumers have lost control of how personal information is collected and used by companies. Dingell has repeatedly asked Federal Communications Commission Chairman Ajit Pai to investigate and crack down on privacy violations to ensure consumers are protected. Dingell said after the hearing, “FCC must earnestly continue their investigation into how LocationSmart obtained cell site location information from carriers and whether that violates the law – it’s the Commission’s job. Investigating these privacy violations is vital, and I’m going to continue urging the Commission to engage more on the issue of protecting consumers’ privacy.” ###
07.09.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) issued the following statement after Brett Kavanaugh was nominated to the Supreme Court: “This Supreme Court vacancy matters to working men, women, and families. This is not just an academic debate. Recently, we saw the Court uphold the discriminatory Muslim Ban and undermine public sector unions ability to advocate for their members. If confirmed, Brett Kavanaugh will make critical decisions about healthcare, freedom of speech and religion, the environment, voting rights, civil rights, marriage equality, and many other issues during their lifetime appointment. The Administration is fighting in court against the Affordable Care Act and pre-existing conditions protections. It’s vital that we have an independent voice who will objectively evaluate the law.” ###
07.05.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) thanked the Trump Administration for understanding the critical importance of Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for Yemenis. TPS allows individuals from nations experiencing war, natural disasters, or extraordinary circumstances to live and work in the United States on a temporary basis. Yemen’s TPS status was set to expire on July 5, 2018. The extension announced today allows eligible individuals to re-register for an extension of their status for 18 months, through March 3, 2020. The status was originally designated in 2015 and re-designated in 2017 as the conflict and humanitarian crisis worsened. “For Yemeni citizens living in the United States the looming expiration of Temporary Protected Status created uncertainty and a fear that they would be returned to a war-torn country,” said Dingell. “Forcing these Yemen citizens back to a country which remains in a constant state of war is potentially life-threatening. The extension of TPS status for Yemen is warranted, and I’m pleased to see more compassion and certainty for Yemenis impacted during this difficult time.” During the designated period, eligible nationals of Yemen (and people without nationality who last habitually resided in Yemen) who are approved for TPS will not be removed from the United States. For more information about the application process and eligibility requirements, please visit www.uscis.gov/tps. Members of the community who need assistance should contact Dingell’s Dearborn office at 313-278-2936. Last month, Dingell led a group of 39 of her colleagues in calling on the Trump Administration to extend and re-designate TPS for Yemen due to the ongoing armed conflict within the country. ###
07.03.2018	DEARBORN, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and local experts today held a town hall on the state of healthcare and pre-existing conditions coverage and what it means for people in Michigan. Dingell was joined by Marianne Udow-Phillips, Executive Director at the Center for Healthcare Research & Transformation, Mary Zatina, Senior Vice President of Government Relations at Beaumont Health, and Shari Navetta, Advocacy Chair at the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation of Southeast Michigan. Dingell live streamed the event on her Facebook page. Photos from the event are available here. “Whether I’m at a townhall or the grocery store, in Ann Arbor or Downriver, I hear from people who are scared to death about the potential loss of pre-existing conditions coverage,” said Congresswoman Debbie Dingell. “We cannot go back to days that people with diabetes, high blood pressure or heart issues have to fear being denied insurance or premiums to high they cannot afford them. There’s so much happening, but it’s important we keep talking about changes happening in healthcare and what it means for families in Michigan. When you live in America, you have a right to affordable, quality healthcare. Congress must work to improve – not dismantle – the Affordable Care Act.” "At Beaumont, we believe that the most important aspect of delivering care is ensuring our patients have full and robust access to care and health insurance. The ACA helps us help people. It's the doorway to better care, better value and healthier lives and it offers protections for pre-existing conditions and protections for children,” said Mary Zatina, Senior Vice President of Government Relations at Beaumont Health. “The ACA is not perfect but it has provided access to care where there was none before, and we should build off these gains rather than moving backwards." “Recent changes to the Affordable Care Act have been destabilizing to the individual market in many ways. 2018 premiums in Michigan increased an average of 26.7% in large part because of federal regulatory changes and uncertainty about the future of the ACA.” said Marianne Udow-Phillips, Executive Director for the Center for Healthcare Research and Transformation at the University of Michigan. “ In particular, there were payments owed to health plans that the Administration decided not to pay that significantly contributed to the large premium increases. While, premium increases in 2019 look to be much lower, future increases are likely as a result of things like the repeal of the tax penalty for people who don’t have health insurance which is a problem because it means that people have less incentive to buy health insurance and those insured are more likely to be sicker which makes costs go up actually for everyone.” “It is imperative that people with Type One Diabetes have access to affordable, quality and predictable healthcare coverage. Keeping themselves healthy and in range every day is stressful enough without the added burden of wondering if they will be able to afford the supplies and insulin they need to live,” said Shari Navetta, Advocacy Chair at the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation of Southeast Michigan. ###
06.29.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell continued to urge the FCC and FTC to investigate whether consumers’ viewing and other personal information was improperly shared with Cambridge Analytica. Dingell followed-up with Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Chairman Ajit Pai and Federal Trade Commissioner (FTC) Joseph Simmons to stress the importance of protecting consumers privacy amongst news that Cambridge Analytica improperly collected and shared information from set-top cable boxes. In addition to investigating viewing information, Dingell also urged the FTC to investigate Cambridge Analytica’s overall collection of consumers’ data and if they collected data with the help of other knowing or un-knowing data collectors and platforms. In April 2018, Dingell asked FCC Chairman Pai to investigate comments by Cambridge Analytica program director Brittany Kaiser, who in a 2016 interview, claimed that the company purchased consumers’ viewing or other personal data. Kaiser noted that these data are exceptionally detailed and can “tell you exactly when someone logs in, what they are recording, [and] what they fast forward through.” Additionally, Cambridge Analytica’s Chief Revenue Officer claimed earlier this year that the company could not only use such viewing habits to understand voters’ preferences but that the company could also use that data in conjunction with new smart TVs and set-top-boxes to target political content on televisions. In response to her original letter, FCC Chairman Pai passed the issue to the FTC, responding that TiVo and ComScore do not fall under the FCC’s jurisdiction and that “it is unclear whether DISH shared individual PII or only ‘aggregate data which does not identify particular persons’ – I believe the appropriate investigatory agency is not the FCC but instead the FTC.” In a follow-up letter to the FCC Dingell stated that Chairman Pai’s response “raises more questions than answers. The FCC has clear authority and a responsibility to protect the viewing data of cable and satellite television subscribers. Your punting this matter to the FTC raises questions as to whether the FCC takes serious its obligation to aggressively and effectively protect consumer privacy.” Dingell also sent a separate letter to FTC Chairman Simmons urging an investigation into whether data collectors improperly collected and shared consumer information with the Cambridge Analytica and noted that, “The FTC should also investigate how Cambridge Analytica collected information about Americans in unscrupulous ways and potentially with the aid of other data collectors. Such an investigation should not be limited to the much-discussed personality-test app but to all of Cambridge Analytica’s and others’ tactics, including whether data on Americans was obtained by smart televisions, set-top boxes, streaming services, or other companies in the television ecosystem and whether that supplied data to Cambridge Analytica committed unfair and deceptive practices in their collection, use, and sharing of that data.” ###
06.27.2018	DEARBORN, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) will host eight Congress in Your Community events over the Fourth of July week to meet and talk with people in Michigan’s 12th District. Congress in Your Community provides an opportunity for members of the community to conveniently discuss issues and concerns with Dingell and her staff, and take advantage of services provided through her office. Constituents across the 12th District are welcome to attend and no appointment is necessary. For questions or additional information, please call Dingell’s Dearborn office at 313-278-2936. Dingell will continue to hold these events throughout the summer. Saturday, June 30, 2018 ​WHAT: Dingell to host Congress in Your Community in Ann Arbor WHEN: 8:00-9:30 am, Saturday, June 30 WHERE: Ann Arbor Farmers Market, 315 Detroit Street, Ann Arbor, MI Monday, July 2, 2018 WHAT: Dingell to host Congress in Your Community in Belleville WHEN: 4:30-6:00 pm, Monday, July 2 WHERE: Belleville Farmers Market, 4th Street Square 396 Main Street, Belleville, MI Tuesday, July 3, 2018 WHAT: Dingell to host Congress in Your Community in Ypsilanti WHEN: 3:00-4:30 pm, Tuesday, July 3 WHERE: Ypsilanti Growing Hope Market 16 South Washington, Ypsilanti, MI Thursday, July 5, 2018 WHAT: Dingell to host Congress in Your Community in Pittsfield Township WHEN: 3:00-4:30 pm, Thursday, July 5 WHERE: Pittsfield Township Farmers Market, Lillie Park South 4365 Platt Rd, Pittsfield TWP, MI WHAT: Dingell to host Congress in Your Community in Ann Arbor’s Westside WHEN: 5:00-6:30 pm, Thursday, July 5 WHERE: Westside Farmers Market, Zingermans 2501 Jackson Road, Ann Arbor, MI ***NEW*** Friday, July 6, 2018 WHAT: Dingell to host Congress in Your Community in Taylor WHEN: 12:00-1:30 pm, Friday, July 6 WHERE: Taylor Farmers Market 12111 Pardee Rd, Taylor, MI ***NEW*** WHAT: Dingell to host Congress in Your Community in Wyandotte WHEN: 2:00-3:30 pm, Friday, July 6 WHERE: Wyandotte Farmers Market 3200 Biddle Ave, Wyandotte, MI Saturday, July 7, 2018 WHAT: Dingell to host Congress in Your Community in Ypsilanti WHEN: 9:00-10:30 am, Saturday, July 7 WHERE: Ypsilanti Depot Town Farmers Market 400 Rice Street, Ypsilanti, MI Friday, June 29, 2018 ***POSTPONED DUE TO EXTREME HEAT**** WHAT: Dingell to host Congress in Your Community in Dearborn WHEN: 5:00-6:30 pm, Friday, June 29 WHERE: Dearborn Farmers & Artisans Market, West Village Commons Plaza, 22223 Michigan Ave, Dearborn, MI Sunday, July 1, 2018 ***POSTPONED DUE TO EXTREME HEAT**** WHAT: Dingell to host Congress in Your Community in Lincoln Park WHEN: 1:00-2:30 pm, Sunday, July 1 WHERE: Lincoln Park Farmers Market, SW Corner, Fort Street & Southfield, Lincoln Park, MI ### This press release has been updated.
06.27.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Representatives Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and Jim McGovern (MA-2) introduced legislation to ease the financial burden on American citizens who need to be evacuated from foreign countries during extreme situations such as natural disaster or outbreak of war. Currently, State Department policy requires American citizens who are being evacuated from a foreign country to sign a promissory note obligating them to repay the US government the equivalent price of a commercial flight from the area from which they are being evacuated. These evacuation fees typically cost hundreds of dollars, and the federal government will put a hold on an evacuee’s passport until this amount is repaid. “In times of crisis, we have an obligation to assist our fellow Americans seeking safety, and individuals facing emergencies abroad should not have to worry about being hit with a bill after their evacuation,” said Dingell. “People from Michigan contacted me asking to do something about the outrageous prices charged of citizens during a traumatic time. Further, these evacuation fees provide a minimal amount of revenue while placing significant burdens on travelers.” Dingell and McGovern introduced the Leave No Americans Behind Act of 2018, which eliminates the federal government’s practice of charging evacuees a fee. “It is unconscionable that Americans, who have lost everything in a natural disaster or whose lives are in grave peril, are then hit with a bill from the U.S. government because they were evacuated,” said McGovern. “I thank Congresswoman Dingell for championing this issue and I’m proud to support her efforts.” ###
06.27.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) made the following statement after the Supreme Court ruled on the case of Janus v. AFSCME: “Today the Supreme Court issued a deeply disturbing decision that will mean smaller paychecks because employers will pay workers less without effective negotiations and fewer protections in the workplace. Make no mistake about it, this is just another in a long series of attacks on working families. “Congress must do everything we can to address the challenges facing our working men and women, and with today’s decision, our to-do list got much larger. The current administration has consistently enacted policies that put corporations ahead of workers – from today’s decision, to the tax giveaway or right to work bills across the country. “Unions are on the front lines fighting for America’s workers, and the Janus decision is just the latest attack on unions and workers. Unions have negotiated for all working men and women including protections in the workplace, health care coverage, retirement security, smaller student to teacher and patient to nurse ratios, and many other benefits workers take for granted such as paid holidays. “For a President whose campaign promises were to bring good jobs back to America, his Supreme Court nominee doesn’t reflect that priority. We are all stronger together and we must stop the erosion of our labor unions, the best tool workers have to level the playing field.” ###
06.26.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement in response to the Supreme Court upholding the Trump Administration’s Muslim Ban: “Today is a sad and disappointing day. From our earliest founding, the United States has been a land of opportunity for individuals seeking religious freedom. Our Constitution and the First Amendment are clear: our country must respect all religions. The Supreme Court made the wrong decision in their interpretation and application of the Constitution. “The discriminatory Muslim Ban keeps people away from their loved ones and says ‘Do Not Enter’ to refugees fleeing war and violence. National security experts have been clear that the Muslim Ban has made our country less safe. Religious freedom is one of the most fundamental pillars of our Constitution, and this policy is at odds with who we are as a nation. We will continue to fight to protect our Constitution.” ###
06.21.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) issued the following statement after voting against both immigration bills before the House of Representatives: “Our country’s immigration system is broken. Families are being torn apart at the border, and for years farmers, our hospitality industry, and businesses have struggled to get the workers they need. We must commit to work in a bipartisan manner on comprehensive immigration reform that secures our borders, respects families, provides permanent protections for Dreamers, helps employers, and provides a pathway to citizenship for immigrants living and contributing to our country. It is hard, but we must do it. The two bills that we have seen this week do not accomplish that.” ###
06.21.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) led a group of House members in calling on the Trump Administration to extend and re-designate Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for Yemen due to the ongoing armed conflict within the country. TPS, once designated, allows individuals from nations experiencing war, natural disasters, or extraordinary circumstances to live and work in the United States on a temporary basis. Yemen’s TPS status expires on July 5, 2018. The status was originally designated in 2015 and re-designated in 2017 as the conflict and humanitarian crisis worsened. “Yemen remains in a constant state of war. For this reason, TPS for Yemen is not only deserved, but warranted under the law. The outbreak of war, which was the main reason for TPS designation in September 2015, is not only ongoing today but is reaching new levels of violence throughout the country,” the lawmakers wrote. “Current TPS recipients from Yemen living in safely in the United States have contributed greatly to the social and economic welfare of our communities. Failing to extend TPS for Yemenis who have it and re-designate it for eligible individuals will put many men, women, children, and families in jeopardy and do much to undermine the security of the American homeland.” During the designated period, eligible nationals of Yemen (and people without nationality who last habitually resided in Yemen) who are approved for TPS will not be removed from the United States. For more information about the application process and eligibility requirements, please visit www.ucis.gov/tps. Members of the community who need assistance should contact Dingell’s Dearborn office at 313-278-2936. In addition to Dingell, the letter was signed by Reps. Nydia M. Velázquez (NY-7), James P. McGovern (MA-2), Gene Green (TX-29), Betty McCollum (MN-4), Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC), Yvette D. Clarke (NY-9), Frederica S. Wilson (FL-24), Joe Crowley (NY-14), Barbara Lee (CA-13), Adriano Espaillat (NY-13), Rick Larsen (WA-2), Brenda L. Lawrence (MI-14), Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12), Gwen Moore (WI-4), Adam Smith (WA-9), David N. Cicilline (RI-1), Zoe Lofgren (CA-19), David E. Price (NC-4), Pramila Jayapal (WA-7), Rosa DeLauro (CT-3), Elijah Cummings (MD-7), André Carson (IN-7), Keith Ellison (MN-5), Diana DeGette (CO-1), Sander Levin (MI-9), Jackie Speier (CA-14), Dina Titus (NV-1), Jan Schakowsky (IL-9), Frank Pallone, Jr. (NJ-6), Ted Deutch (FL-22), Michael Capuano (MA-7), Ro Khanna (CA-17), John Yarmuth (KY-3), Joe Courtney (CT-2), John Delaney (MD-6), Alcee Hastings (FL-2), Peter A. DeFazio (OR-4), Peter Welch (VT), and Ted W. Lieu (CA-33). The full letter can be read here or below. Dear Secretary Nielsen and Secretary Pompeo: In less than one month, this administration will decide the fate of nearly 1,200 Yemeni nationals who have built new lives that depend upon Temporary Protected Status for their continued livelihood, safety, and survival. We write to strongly urge you to both extend and re-designate Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for Yemen before the deadline on July 5, 2018. Yemen remains in a constant state of war. For this reason, TPS for Yemen is not only deserved, but warranted under the law. The outbreak of war, which was the main reason for TPS designation in September 2015,[1] is not only ongoing today but is reaching new levels of violence throughout the country. The United Nations and the Armed Conflict Location and Event Data Project has documented thousands of civilian deaths, with upward of 3,000 persons killed in 2018 alone.[2] All parties involved in the war are indiscriminately targeting civilians and vital civilian infrastructure, including residences, medical centers, and transportation networks.[3] Moreover, the war’s widespread destruction has caused the world’s worst humanitarian crisis, an extraordinary and temporary condition that justified the extension and re-designation of TPS in 2017.[4] More than 22 million Yemenis—roughly three-quarters of the population—need some form of humanitarian assistance. At least 8.4 million are severely food insecure, and nearly every governorate in the country is at crisis levels for impending famine.[5] The civil war has caused nearly 3 million Yemenis to be internally displaced, the majority of which have now been displaced for over one year, and nearly 200,000 have left for refuge across the world.[6] Preventable diseases are rampant, with the international community recording over 1 million cases of cholera and the spread of diphtheria and measles across the country.[7] The case for extending TPS for the 18-month maximum allowed by the law, and re-designating TPS for eligible Yemenis, is statutorily clear. The armed conflict renders the safe return of roughly 1,200 Yemeni TPS holders in the United States unfeasible and inhumane. The humanitarian crisis represents a “substantial, but temporary, disruption of living conditions” for Yemenis, and the civil war and loss of territory and vital infrastructure renders the Yemeni government “unable, temporarily, to handle adequately the return” of Yemenis (8 U.S.C. §1254a). Extending and re-designating TPS for Yemen is also clearly in the interest of America’s national security. Since March 2015, the United States has been involved in a regional military campaign in support of the internationally recognized government and seeks, for the stability of Yemen and its neighbors, a negotiated settlement to the conflict and an amelioration of its resulting humanitarian crisis. The sudden return of 1,200 Yemenis will not only further undermine the international humanitarian response in Yemen, but also undermine America’s standing amongst our allies and give antagonistic states and non-state actors in the region a needless propaganda boon. Current TPS recipients from Yemen living in safely in the United States have contributed greatly to the social and economic welfare of our communities. Failing to extend TPS for Yemenis who have it and re-designate it for eligible individuals will put many men, women, children, and families in jeopardy and do much to undermine the security of the American homeland. ###
06.20.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today Congresswomen Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and Annie Kuster (NH-2) announced they are leading a group of nearly 60 Democratic women in pressing the Secretaries of Homeland Security (DHS) and Health and Human Services (HHS) to release details about immigrant children separated from their parents. You can read the letter here. “It’s repugnant to think of children separated from their families,” said Dingell. “What’s worse is we don’t know where girls are being housed, the conditions under which they are residing after being torn from their parents arms, and we don’t know how they are being protected, supported, or plans for reunification. These are children and it’s our job to protect them. Rep. Annie Kuster and I are proud to work with our other Democratic colleagues in the House to demand specifics to ensure these girls safety and care.” “The situation on the southern border is absolutely heartbreaking,” said Kuster. “No child should be separated from their parents. I’m deeply troubled that the administration appears to be only allowing access to detention facilities housing boys. We need to know what is taking place with young girls, as well as toddlers and infants who are being detained. This is a devastating crisis and the American government cannot be in the business of locking up children including toddlers and babies.” “The Administration’s policy of separating children from their parents at the border is deeply concerning and it goes against our nation’s values and long history as a land of immigrants,” the lawmakers wrote. “As we learn more about the devastating effects of President Trump’s zero tolerance policy, we are seeing more and more images of some of the children that are being detained. Based on these images, many have raised concerns about the status of young girls who have been separated at the border. The American people have a right to know what is being done to ensure that these young girls are safe and being properly cared for.” In photos of the detention centers released by DHS, only photos of young boys have been released. Prompting questions from the public and members of Congress as to the whereabouts of the young girls separated from their parents. The lawmakers continued, “Disturbingly, the photos and videos released as of the date of this letter only show boys, and only boys age 10 and up. We are asking for a formal answer to these and other questions regarding the status of children being detained by DHS and HHS.” In the letter, the Democratic women asked DHS and HHS to give specifics as to how many children have been separated, how many facilities are housing them, how their safety and care are being ensured, and what the plans are for family reunification. The letter was signed by Congresswomen Alma Adams (NC-12), Nanette Barragan (CA-44), Karen Bass (CA-37), Joyce Beatty (OH-3), Suzanne Bonamici (OR-1), Julia Brownley (CA-26), Cheri Bustos (IL-17), Kathy Castor (FL-14), Judy Chu (CA-27), Katherine Clark (MA-5), Yvette Clarke (NY-9), Susan Davis (CA-53), Diana DeGette (CO-1), Suzan DelBene (WA-1), Rosa L. DeLauro (CT-3), Val Demings (FL-10), Anna Eshoo (CA-18), Elizabeth Esty (CT-5), Lois Frankel (FL-22), Marcia Fudge (OH-11), Tulsi Gabbard (HI-2), Michelle Lujan Grisham (NM-01), Colleen Hanabusa (HI-1), Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC), Shelia Jackson Lee (TX-18), Eddie Bernice Johnson (TX-30), Pramila Jayapal (WA-7), Marcy Kaptur (OH-9), Robin Kelly (IL-2), Brenda Lawrence (MI-14), Barbara Lee (CA-13), Zoe Lofgren (CA-19), Nita M. Lowey (NY-17), Carolyn Maloney (NY-12), Doris Matsui (CA-6), Betty McCollum (MN-4), Grace Meng (NY-6), Gwen Moore (WI-4), Stephanie Murphy (FL-7), Grace Napolitano (CA-32), Chellie Pingree (ME-1), Kathleen Rice (NY-4), Lisa Blunt Rochester (DE), Jacky Rosen (NV-3), Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA-40), Linda Sanchez (CA-38), Jan Schakowsky (IL-9), Teri Sewell (AL-7), Carol Shea-Porter (NH-1), Jackie Speier (CA-14), Dina Titus (NV-1), Norma Torres (CA-35), Niki Tsongas (MA-3), Nydia M. Velázquez (NY-7), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23), Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12), and Frederica Wilson (FL-24). The full letter can be read below: Dear Secretary Azar and Secretary Nielsen: The Administration’s policy of separating children from their parents at the border is deeply concerning and it goes against our nation’s values and long history as a land of immigrants. As we learn more about the devastating effects of President Trump’s zero tolerance policy, we are seeing more and more images of some of the children that are being detained. Based on these images, many have raised concerns about the status of young girls who have been separated at the border. The American people have a right to know what is being done to ensure that these young girls are safe and being properly cared for. On June 18, 2018, Secretary Nielsen was unable to speak to the whereabouts and living conditions for the many girls, toddlers, and infants who have been separated from their families at the border. According to data released by the Department of Homeland Security, almost 2,000 children have been separated from their parents and placed under supervision of HHS in accordance with the Trump Administration’s current immigration policy. Disturbingly, the photos and videos released as of the date of this letter only show boys, and only boys age 10 and up. We are asking for a formal answer to these and other questions regarding the status of children being detained by DHS and HHS. How many total girls are under the supervision of DHS and HHS? How many facilities are there? What is the budget for each facility? How has HHS ensured that the facilities housing girls are safe, clean, and age appropriate? When will HHS allow access or provide visual evidence of the status of these girls and the facility conditions? What precautions are being taken to keep young girls protected from exploitation? Who is taking care of infant and toddlers who have been separated from their mothers and can no longer be breastfed? How are DHS and HHS ensuring that the companies and nonprofits that operate facilities through government contracts and grants are conducting thorough background checks on potential illegal behavior among their employees who work with young girls and boys? How are DHS and HHS ensuring that the specific needs of young girls are being met? How many pregnant young women are in ORR’s custody? What is ORR doing to ensure they are receiving adequate prenatal and medical care? How many young women in ORR’s custody have recently given birth? What is ORR doing to ensure they are receiving adequate medical care? Please provide more information on the reported practice of forcibly injecting children with powerful psychiatric drugs, including what children are being injected with, the rationale for this practice, the number of children subjected to this. What plans does DHS and HHS have to reunify children who have been separated from their parents at the border? The Administration has claimed that limiting media access to the detention centers is out of privacy protection for the detained children. We recognize the importance of protecting the privacy of these children. However, this crisis has raised great concern among Members of Congress and the American people. We look forward to your timely response to our questions. ### This press release has been updated.
06.19.2018	DEARBORN, MI – Today Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) issued the following statement as the Trump Administration continues to stand behind their “zero tolerance” policy causing immigrant children to be separated from their parents: “This Administration continues to double down on the inhumane, unjust and – as Cardinal Dolan said – unbiblical policy of separating parents from children. Asylum-seekers are fleeing violence, abuse and brutal governments to seek a better life in the US. These children are crying and terrified, not knowing when they will see their parents again. This policy is causing psychological damage that will last their lifetimes. “The President could stop separating immigrant families if he wanted to. It is my fervent hope my Republicans colleagues, who I know are deeply disturbed as well, will make their voices heard tonight when the President meets with the Republican Caucus. He could stop this hateful, heartless policy immediately, but he doesn’t. So Congress must kick up our moral responsibility and take urgent action to end this policy. We’ve all seen the news reports, but members of Congress from both sides of the aisle must see the conditions firsthand, which I plan on doing. In the meantime, as I have said many times, we need comprehensive immigration reform in this country that keeps our borders safe but addresses a myriad of issues. We have DACA young people terrified. We have crops not being picked, a hospitality industry which is cutting back and closing restaurants, and a construction industry in need of workers. National security must always be a priority but it is time to tackle these problems in a broad manner so that all these issues are addressed.” ###
06.19.2018	DETROIT, MI – Today, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) issued the following statement as Ford unveiled plans for Michigan Central Station in Detroit: “Today is a great day for Michigan. Ford’s bold vision for Michigan Central Station means more than just more jobs, it will ensure that the heart of the auto industry stays right here in Michigan. It will help revitalize all of Michigan Avenue from Detroit to Ann Arbor, creating a mobility corridor that will be the center of transportation innovation and technology worldwide. Michigan Avenue will connect the University of Michigan, the American Center for Mobility at Willow Run, Ford World Headquarters in Dearborn, and the new Central Station development right in Corktown. For far too many years, the train station stood vacant as a stark symbol of Southeast Michigan’s challenges, but today it will serve as a reminder that our best days are still ahead of us and will inspire all of us to improve our region for the better. It is an example of how this region is dependent on each other and working together as one community can and will succeed. Bill Ford, Jim Hackett and the entire team at Ford deserve credit for their exciting vision for the site and their commitment to Michigan workers.” ###
06.15.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) issued the following statement on the Administration’s policy of separating immigrant families at the border: “The stories from the border make me ill. Babies ripped away from their breastfeeding mothers. Fathers driven to suicide. These are not American values. It’s cruel, inhumane, and does nothing make us a safer country. “This weekend families across America will celebrate Father’s Day. But there’s nothing to celebrate for immigrant parents separated from their children. “Members of Congress must see first-hand the conditions these children are being held in and the pain inflicted on these families. Our country must end this despicable policy immediately.” ###
06.12.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the House of Representatives passed three bipartisan bills introduced by U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) to address the opioid epidemic. All of the bipartisan bills, the Advancing Cutting-Edge (ACE) Research Act, Jessie’s Law and the Safe Disposal of Unused Medication Act, were introduced with Michigan Republicans. For video of Dingell speaking on the House floor, please click here. “Today the House took a good first step to address the opioid crisis which is ravaging every corner of our country,” said Dingell. “I’ve lived all sides of the epidemic and I know the horrible pain, desperation, and frustration of living with a family member with addiction and the sadness of ultimately losing someone you love. But I also live with a man in intense pain who must use opioids because there are no other alternatives. We must ensure the pendulum does not swing too far in one direction. “These bipartisan bills should only be the beginning. They will spur research into non-addictive pain medications, they will provide medical providers with the information they need to treat patients, and they will help prevent the diversion of unused prescription drugs. But much more must be done. Tackling the opioid epidemic needs a comprehensive approach that includes putting real dollars behind treatment and addressing mental health crisis in this country.” The legislation approved by the House includes: The Advancing Cutting-Edge (ACE) Research Act, legislation introduced by Dingell and Rep. Fred Upton (MI-06) to spur urgently needed research on new non-addictive pain medications. The bill provides the National Institutes of Health (NIH) with new, flexible authorities to conduct innovative research on ways to prevent, treat and cure diseases, including vital research to respond to public health threats like the opioid epidemic. For more information, please click here. Jessie’s Law, legislation introduced by Dingell and Rep. Tim Walberg (MI-07) named after Michigan resident Jessie Grubb who tragically died of an opioid overdose last year. Jessie’s Law would help ensure doctors have access to a consenting patient’s prior history of addiction in order to make fully informed care and treatment decisions. Providing this information would help prevent cases like Jessie’s, where a recovering addict in Ann Arbor was unknowingly prescribed and discharged with a powerful opioid that led to her death. For more information, please click here. The Safe Disposal of Unused Medication Act, legislation Dingell introduced with Rep. Walberg to help prevent the misuse or diversion of unused medications by allowing hospice professionals to safely dispose of unused drugs after a hospice patient’s death.
06.12.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) issued the following statement after the Department of Justice announced it will no longer defend the Affordable Care Act’s pre-existing conditions provisions in court: “Yesterday, taking John to the doctor, I was struck by the number of people terrified by the announcement that the Justice Department will no longer defend the Affordable Care Act’s protections for people with pre-existing conditions. A woman stopped us who had a stroke last year who had never had a health problem beforehand. She doesn’t know what she will do if pre-existing conditions are no longer covered. She won’t be eligible for Medicare for several years. “This is not some academic debate – this is life for death for people. I’m regularly reminded how real this is for the working men and women we all represent. I also met the mother of a child who had juvenile diabetes and was worried about her child’s future. Could the Justice Department’s decision impact her child’s success in life? “During debate over repealing the Affordable Care Act, I heard my colleagues on the other side of the aisle say time and time again that they wanted to protect people with pre-existing conditions. If they are serious about this, then they should join Democrats in urging the Administration to reverse this decision that jeopardizes care for 130 million Americans with a pre-existing condition. There is plenty of space for us to work on improving American’s access to health care insurance. Taking away pre-existing conditions coverage is not the solution.”
06.11.2018	DEARBORN, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) issued the following statement as the FCC order to end net neutrality goes into effect today, June 11: “We use the internet to do business, keep up with the news, and connect with family and friends. Students, parents, seniors and entrepreneurs of all sizes need the freedom to choose what websites and applications they want to use and see online. The House must pass bipartisan legislation to protect net neutrality, and a fair and open internet. Every individual in Michigan and across the country is counting on us.” ###
06.04.2018	DEARBORN, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement in response to reports that Fred Fleitz, who was recently appointed as the Chief of Staff and Executive Secretary of the National Security Council, made anti-Muslim comments in an interview last year: “I am deeply concerned about comments reported to have been made by the newly appointed Chief of Staff to the White House National Security Council. His statements expressing concern about Muslim populations in Michigan are appalling. In Michigan and across the country, Muslim-Americans are doctors, lawyers, teachers, community leaders and some of the most patriotic Americans I know. They are literally my next-door neighbors in Dearborn, the city which has been our home for decades. Racism and bigotry have no place in our politics, and especially not in the White House. We must not allow fear and hatred to divide us, and irresponsible statements like this make us less safe. Freedom of religion is a fundamental pillar of our democracy and we must stand together as Americans to protect the values and ideals that make this nation great.”
05.29.2018	DEARBORN, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement in honor of Memorial Day, which will be observed on Monday, May 28. “On Memorial Day, we come together in our communities to honor the legacy of the American heroes who have made the ultimate sacrifice defending our country and the democratic values we hold dear. Since America’s founding, over 1.3 million American men and women have answered the patriotic call to service and laid down their lives for the freedom of families at home and afar. Their courage, their character, and the enduring power of their example truly embody the best of America. “As we pay tribute to these fallen heroes this weekend, let us pledge to serve our veterans and their families as well as they have served us. May we always remember that we are the land of the free because of the brave- in war and in peace, our soldiers deserve our endless thanks and support.”
05.24.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Representatives Debbie Dingell (D-MI), Annie Kuster (D-NH) and Mia Love (R-UT) applauded the passage of a key provision from their legislation to protect military survivors of sexual assault as part of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). Their provision addresses what the military calls “collateral misconduct” – violations of military rules committed by sexual assault survivors, which are often minor offenses. Despite the comparatively inconsequential nature of offenses, collateral misconduct is “one of the most significant barriers” to service members reporting sexual assaults, according to the Department of Defense’s own policy, which has been in place since 2004. The measure included in the NDAA requires the first ever large-scale and independent review of prosecutions and punishments that target service members who survive sexual assaults. In addition to the NDAA amendment, today Dingell, Kuster and Love also introduced a bill featuring more comprehensive reforms, including annual reports to Congress and database tracking of collateral misconduct. “No survivor anywhere—including in the ranks of our military—should have to live in fear of reporting a sexual assault or other serious crimes,” said Dingell. “The practice of ‘collateral misconduct’ must stop, and I am proud to join my colleagues in this important effort. By reporting and tracking its prevalence we can better understand this conduct and institute reforms to empower every soldier, sailor, marine, airman, and coast guardsman to speak out.” “The fact that serious crimes against members of our military go unreported and unpunished because of a preoccupation with minor mistakes made by survivors is unacceptable,” said Kuster. “The fear of repercussion is a serious barrier to survivors of sexual assault coming forward with their allegations. We must work to ensure that no service member is forced to endure sexual violence because they fear coming forward.” “I am proud to stand with my colleagues to introduce this important bipartisan legislation,” said Love. “The threat of punishment for collateral misconduct is a serious barrier to reporting sexual assault within the military. While the brave men and women who serve our nation face many threats, this should never be one of them.” The amendment included today directs the Defense Advisory Committee on Investigations, Prosecution, and Defense of Sexual Assault in the Armed Forces (DAC-IPAD) to conduct a review of this issue. The policy recognizes that survivors often choose to remain silent rather than risk derailing their military careers in pursuit of justice. Consequently, their assailants go unpunished. Before Wednesday’s vote, congressional efforts to reform collateral misconduct policies have largely failed to gain the bipartisan support needed to become law. Currently, the military neither tracks collateral misconduct nor reports to Congress about them as part of its annual report on sexual assault. If approved by the Senate and signed into law, the amendment stipulates the first in a series of on-going reports will be completed by Sept. 30, 2019. The inaugural filing will be followed with reports every two years thereafter.
05.24.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Yesterday, U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) questioned members of the U.S. Olympic community at a hearing of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Oversight and Investigation Subcommittee entitled, “Examining the Olympic Community’s Ability to Protect Athletes from Sexual Abuse.” Dingell pressed the officials on their systematic failure to protect young athletes and how the newfound U.S. Center for SafeSport will implement sexual assault policies and procedures to prevent similar abuses in the future. “It is troubling that leaders in the Olympic community could not sufficiently answer concerns regarding the complete failure of the systems meant to protect young athletes, including the lack of urgency in opening the U.S. Center for SafeSport,” Dingell said. “Those of us in Michigan have stood witness to the devastating and inexcusable abuse of power that has forever scarred the lives of hundreds of athletes. “Team USA is more than just a team; it is 13 million young men and women across our country that rely on the safeguards promised by the Olympic Committee. It should not have taken 7 years to create an independent agency to investigate wide ranging claims against bad actors and yesterday’s hearing made it clear- the time for talk is over and now the Olympic Committee must walk their talk.” For video of Dingell’s questioning, please click here. In January 2018, Dingell voted in support of the Protecting Young Victims from Sexual Abuse and Safe Sport Authorization Act which has since been signed into law. The legislation authorized the U.S. Center for SafeSport’s jurisdiction over investigations into alleged code violations -including sexual assault and harassment- against leaders in the Olympic and Paralympic Movement’s 47 member organizations.
05.17.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) led a letter with seven colleagues urging President Trump to reconsider a reported decision to eliminate the role of Special Assistant to the President and Cyber Security Coordinator. Such a decision would leave a significant void in coordinating a whole-of-government response to cyber threats, while signaling to allies and adversaries that the United States is abdicating its international leadership role in this space, the Representatives argued. “We urge you to strongly reconsider this decision,” they wrote. “America needs to send a strong message to allies and adversaries alike that we are committed to leading and solving complex cybersecurity issues. “The risks individuals and countries face in cyberspace are only increasing, and we must build on our capacity to combat those risks – not take needless steps backwards. With increased tensions with China, Russia and now Iran, the need to bolster and form a cohesive strategy for dealing with threats new and old is of vital importance. We will also be having elections in six short months, and the need for increased election security is glaring.” The elimination of the Cyber Security Coordinator would hinder the country’s ability to respond quickly to threats and curb intellectual property theft and attacks on infrastructure. “Nations will continue to brazenly defy international norms in cyberspace,” the Representatives continued. “Whether it is attacks on our financial sector, energy sector, industry or even political campaigns we cannot let these go unanswered and leave ourselves open for future attacks.” In addition to Dingell, the letter is signed by Reps. Denny Heck (WA-10), Jacky Rosen (NV-03), Dina Titus (NV-01), Jim Himes (CT-04), Stephen F. Lynch (MA-08), Derek Kilmer (WA-06) and Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18). The full letter is here and below: President Donald Trump The White House 1600 Pennslyvania Ave, NW Washington DC, 20500 This letter is regarding recent media reports that your administration is eliminating the role of Special Assistant to the President and Cyber Security Coordinator. We urge you to strongly reconsider this decision. America needs to send a strong message to allies and adversaries alike that we are committed to leading and solving complex cybersecurity issues. The role of Cyber Security Coordinator has been influential in developing and coordinating the United States’ strategy and responses to threats across government, as well as outreach to the private sector. The previous holders of this office have done tremendous work on casting sunlight on the vulnerabilities equity process, and worked extensively with the Intelligence Community and Department of State to reach international consensus on curbing intellectual property theft and attacks on infrastructure. These are complicated issues that demand strong and capable leadership. The risks individuals and countries face in cyberspace are only increasing, and we must build on our capacity to combat those risks – not take needless steps backwards. With increased tensions with China, Russia and now Iran, the need to bolster and form a cohesive strategy for dealing with threats new and old is of vital importance. We will also be having elections in six short months, and the need for increased election security is glaring. Additionally, with the splitting of NSA and CYBERCOM roles, it is imperative the Executive Branch have someone capable to help manage this transition. When inevitable questions on how to implement new policies arise, there should be someone in the White House to answer them. Nations will continue to brazenly defy international norms in cyberspace. Whether it is attacks on our financial sector, energy sector, industry or even political campaigns we cannot let these go unanswered and leave ourselves open for future attacks. The Cyber Security Coordinator works with all departments of government to ensure that the cost of carrying out these malicious actives is high, and that bad actors are deterred. The importance of a harmonized and coordinated American cyber policy spans the entire global economic system. Whether it is coordinating an international response to an outbreak of ransomware, fighting Distributed Denial of Service attacks, or protecting American companies from the theft of trade secrets and intellectual property, the role the Cyber Security Coordinator plays in these cannot be overstated. A strong and coordinated whole of government response to these issues will ensure American leadership in the continually changing landscape of cyberspace. Cybersecurity is one area where bipartisan agreements on policy and strategy still exists. It should come as no surprise that nation-states and criminals will keep attacking us and our allies and it is vital that we have the best people working on these problems, with a visible figurehead that other government agencies, the private sector, and our allies can turn to for guidance. We must continue to lead the way towards making the Internet and cyberspace a secure and stable place. We know you share these goals, and therefore urge you to leave the office of Cyber Security Coordinator in place. Sincerely,
05.16.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today in a hearing of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Environment, U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) pressed Bill Wehrum, assistant administrator of EPA’s Office of Air and Radiation, to maintain One National Program for fuel economy standards. The hearing follows press reports signaling that the Administration would not consult with California on the new standards. “Mr. Wehrum, I understand that Administrator Pruitt sat down with the President and a number of the CEOs, automakers last Friday to discuss automotive fuel economy and GHG emission standards,” Dingell said. “In that meeting, I understand the President directed Administrator Pruitt and Transportation Secretary Chao to reach out and negotiate a possible deal with California to ensure that we have One National Program in this country for fuel economy and that GHG standards are maintained. I was happy to hear that. That’s what the autos say that they need. California has said that they would work with everybody. “But I’m concerned that yesterday I heard that was not the case – that you were not going to work with California, signaling the exact opposite of what we heard on Friday. It is troubling because the auto industry needs stability.” Dingell asked Wehrum if EPA understands the importance of keeping everyone at the table working toward one national standard for the health of the auto industry and the jobs it supports. Wehrum responded, “I would speak for myself and say absolutely. I understand the importance of that and what I would say is it’s a priority of my office and I believe a priority of the Administration to try to maintain One National Program so I believe that to the degree the press reports are saying that that’s not a goal, I would say that’s wrong. “But, what I would say is that we think changes need to be made and we have started a dialogue with the State of California. I’ve personally been involved in those conversations; we plan to continue that dialogue consistent with what the President said in last week’s meeting. And, in fact, as we speak, we are trying to set up the next discussion with our colleagues at CARB for Wednesday – they are going to be here next week for meetings and we’re hoping to get together with them while they’re here in town. So, we have a dialogue underway and we intend to continue that dialogue and if we can find a way to maintain One National Program, we certainly want to do that and I know California wants to do it and I know the OEMs want to do it and we are going to try.” To watch the full interaction between Dingell and Wehrum, please click here. Dingell also pressed Wehrum on EPA’s recent decision to rescind longstanding policy that limits toxic air pollution from factories and industrial operations and urged the agency to make available studies on how this decision would impact public health. Wehrum announced EPA will issue a rulemaking on the proposal. For more information, please click here.
05.10.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the House of Representatives approved a bipartisan amendment introduced by U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and U.S. Congressman Fred Upton (MI-06) expressing the sense of the Congress that the governments of the United States and Canada should not allow permanent or long-term storage of spent nuclear fuel or other radioactive waste near the Great Lakes. The amendment comes as Ontario Power Generation (OPG) continues to seek approval to construct a deep geologic repository for nuclear waste less than one mile from Lake Huron in Kincardine, Ontario. The amendment now moves to the U.S. Senate as part of the Nuclear Waste Policy Amendments Act of 2018. “The Great Lakes account for 20 percent of the world’s freshwater supply and are absolutely critical for millions of Americans who rely on them for clean drinking water, jobs and their way of life,” said Dingell. “This amendment sends a strong, bipartisan message to our friends and neighbors in Canada that the U.S. Congress is united against storing nuclear waste near the Great Lakes. Rep. Upton and I were proud to get this amendment included on behalf of everyone from the Great Lakes region, and we will continue working with our colleagues to protect these precious waters for future generations.” “The Great Lakes are the lifeblood of our great state,” said Upton. “Right now we have four spent nuclear fuel sites, including two in Southwest Michigan right on the shores of Lake Michigan. Keeping spent fuel there in perpetuity is not an option, especially when a permanent, responsible solution has long been available. This amendment sends a bipartisan message that we will continue working to protect our Great Lakes for future generations.” The Great Lakes delegation has been consistent in their strong opposition to OPG’s proposed nuclear waste site near the Great Lakes. Last year, 32 Members sent a letter to the State Department urging leadership to do everything in their power to protect the Great Lakes and convince the Canadian government to select an alternative site. A copy of the letter is available here.
05.09.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the House Energy and Commerce Committee approved four bipartisan bills introduced by U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) to address the opioid epidemic and reform the outdated over-the-counter drug monograph system. Three of the bills, the Advancing Cutting-Edge (ACE) Research Act, Jessie’s Law and the Safe Disposal of Unused Medication Act, were introduced with other Michigan members. “The opioid epidemic is ravaging every corner of our country,” said Dingell. “I know the horrible pain, desperation, and frustration of living with a family member with addiction and the sadness of ultimately losing someone you love. But I also live with a man in intense pain who must use opioids because there are no other alternatives. We must ensure the pendulum does not swing too far in one direction. “I’m pleased that today the Energy and Commerce Committee advanced a number of bipartisan bills we’ve worked on to address this epidemic in a balanced way, including legislation to spur research into non-addictive pain medications, provide medical providers with the information they need to safely and effectively treat patients, and help prevent the diversion of unused prescription drugs. We also advanced bipartisan legislation to improve the over-the-counter drug monograph system to ensure that new, safe and reliable medications get to those who need them. I look forward to voting for these measures on the House floor.” The legislation approved by the committee includes: The Advancing Cutting-Edge (ACE) Research Act, legislation introduced by Dingell and Rep. Fred Upton (MI-06) to spur urgently needed research on new non-addictive pain medications. The bill provides the National Institutes of Health (NIH) with new, flexible authorities to conduct innovative research on ways to prevent, treat and cure diseases, including vital research to respond to public health threats like the opioid epidemic. For more information, please click here. Jessie’s Law, legislation introduced by Dingell and Rep. Tim Walberg (MI-07) named after Michigan resident Jessie Grubb who tragically died of an opioid overdose last year. Jessie’s Law would help ensure doctors have access to a consenting patient’s prior history of addiction in order to make fully informed care and treatment decisions. Providing this information would help prevent cases like Jessie’s, where a recovering addict in Ann Arbor was unknowingly prescribed and discharged with a powerful opioid that led to her death. For more information please click here. The Safe Disposal of Unused Medication Act, legislation Dingell introduced with Rep. Walberg to help prevent the misuse or diversion of unused medications by allowing hospice professionals to safely dispose of unused drugs after a hospice patient’s death. The Over-the-Counter Monograph Safety, Innovation, and Reform Act, legislation Dingell introduced with Reps. Bob Latta (OH-05), Michael Burgess, M.D. (TX-26), Gene Green (TX-29), Diana DeGette (CO-01), and Brett Guthrie (KY-02) to reform the outdated over-the-counter monograph system. The legislation modernizes the monograph framework and allows new, safe products to come to market more quickly while addressing safety issues.
05.09.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Representatives Debbie Dingell (MI-12), Susan W. Brooks (IN-05), Ted Deutch (FL-22) and Fred Upton (MI-06) held a press conference to introduce H.R. 5717, the Jake Laird Act, a bipartisan bill named after an Indianapolis, Indiana police officer who was shot and killed in 2004 in the line of duty by a man who struggled with mental illness. This bill provides grants to encourage states to adopt laws, similar to Indiana’s 2005 Jake Laird Law, that enable local law enforcement, with probable cause, to seize and retain firearms from individuals who are determined to be an imminent danger to themselves or others. The families of the victims killed in the tragedy in Parkland, Florida on February 14, 2018, wrote a letter to show their support for the Jake Laird Act. To read the letter, click here. “We have a responsibility to come together – Democrats and Republicans – to keep our schools and communities safe,” said Dingell. “In the weeks since the horrific shooting in Parkland, Florida, I have met with law enforcement, prosecutors, mental health experts, the ACLU, students, teachers, parents, and other stakeholders to find common ground. One of the biggest takeaways from these conversations is that we need to provide family members and law enforcement the tools needed when they know someone is a threat to themselves or others. The Jake Laird Act builds on a successful Indiana law to help provide local law enforcement – who are on the frontlines of responding to these crises – with the resources necessary to act before warning signs escalate into tragedies, all while protecting due process.” “The Jake Laird Law has been used successfully more than 600 times in Indianapolis since 2005 and should be used as a model for states nationwide,” said Brooks. “As our country continues to grapple with how to keep our communities safe, the Jake Laird Act will provide our local law enforcement officers the tools and training necessary to prevent senseless acts of violence from claiming more innocent lives. After many meetings with students, teachers, school administrators, law enforcement departments and fellow members of Congress, I am proud to introduce this bipartisan gun violence reduction tool that will help us better avoid situations that could jeopardize countless lives while also protecting individual constitutional rights.” “This bipartisan legislation will encourage states, like Michigan, to adopt common-sense ‘Red Flag’ laws – with stringent due process and probable cause – to prevent those in imminent danger to themselves or others to have firearms,” said Upton. “As I’ve sat down with countless students, teachers, law enforcement officials, gun owners, and others in my area – this has been an idea that constantly comes up. We’ve been successful in getting bipartisan legislation passed to improve our background check system, increase funding for mental health, and billions for school safety programs. These efforts will make a real difference. The Jake Laird Act will be yet another tool in our law enforcement tool box. And my focus is on making sure they also have the proper training to make the proper decisions to prevent dangerous individuals from using firearms to harm themselves or others.” “I made a promise to the Stoneman Douglas community that I’d do everything I can, work with any Member of Congress, and consider all options to help prevent gun violence,” said Deutch. “The Jake Laird Act is based on an existing state model that was passed with bipartisan support after the tragic death of Officer Laird. We are introducing this successful model in Congress, also with bipartisan support, to help the remaining states and territories without gun violence restraining order laws pass what could be live-saving tools.” For a one-page summary of the bill, click here.
05.09.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and U.S. Congressman Fred Upton (MI-06) today joined the majority of their colleagues on the Energy and Commerce Committee in voting to advance their bipartisan legislation, H.R. 5002, the Advancing Cutting-Edge (ACE) Research Act. The bill passed unanimously and now heads to the House Floor for consideration. “I have lived all sides of the opioid epidemic,” said Dingell. “My father was addicted to opioids before anyone really knew what they were and my sister died of a drug overdose. Yet my husband lives with chronic pain and needs opioids to live comfortably. We cannot let the pendulum swing too far in either direction and we cannot be denying medication from those who need it. This bill will allow NIH to innovate and partner with new entities conducting cutting-edge medical research so we can develop new non-addictive painkillers – giving people the relief they need from crippling pain while helping to prevent addiction from taking hold of families in the first place.” “I’m pleased to see the ACE Research Act – a bipartisan bill my colleague Debbie Dingell and I have worked on – advance today,” said Upton. “This bill better allows the National Institutes of Health to partner with innovative companies doing cutting-edge research to address to the tragic opioid epidemic and get non-addictive pain medications to those in need. We’ve seen major responses to the opioid crisis in recent years, but more work remains. We urge our leadership here in the House to bring this bill up for a vote quickly. There isn’t time to waste.” Developing new, non-addictive pain medications is essential to combating the opioid epidemic. During Congressional hearings Dr. Francis Collins, Director of the National Institutes of Health (NIH), requested the agency be given more flexibility, known as other transaction authority (OTA), so the agency could better partner with innovative companies doing research to address the opioid epidemic and other public health threats. Under the ACE Research Act, the NIH Director will be able to more quickly support research on new, non-addictive pain medications and other emerging technologies that can offer hope to those suffering from opioid addiction. Senators Lamar Alexander (TN) and Patty Murray (WA), the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions, have introduced companion legislation in the U.S. Senate (S.2406).
05.08.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today released the following statement on President Trump’s decision to withdraw the United States from the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action. “This dangerous decision puts our national security at risk. The Iran Nuclear Agreement has worked as intended for more than two years, preventing Iran from obtaining the materials needed to gain nuclear capability. Withdrawing from this agreement without an alternative or a comprehensive strategy is irresponsible and makes it easier, not harder, for Iran to develop a nuclear weapon. This decision jeopardizes our relationship with our allies around the world and threatens the security of the American people.”
05.05.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today joined the Michigan Committee to Protect Pensions to address the pension crisis facing more than 30,000 Michiganders and 1.5 million workers and retirees nationwide. Dingell was joined by National United Committee to Protect Pensions President Mike Walden, local Teamsters leaders Kevin Moore and Greg Nowak, and Michigan workers and retirees. The meeting comes as Congress continues to work towards a bipartisan, bicameral solution to the pension crisis. “Men and women in Michigan and across the country worked a lifetime to retire with the dignity and security promised by their pensions. They earned their retirement with blood, sweat and tears and many sacrifices along the way. They played by the rules, put money into their pension and now they are scared to death about how and what they will live on in their later years,” said Dingell. “It is critical that we continue to work across the aisle - Democrats and Republicans, House and Senate - to address the pension crisis in this country. I am grateful for the leaders in this effort and will continue working alongside them and with workers and retirees to protect the retirement they have earned.” Dingell has made fighting for a solution to the pension crisis a top priority since coming to Congress and recently introduced the Butch Lewis Act that would ensure multiemployer pension plans remain solvent and continue providing retirement security for members. In February, Dingell was also appointed to the newly-created Joint Select Committee on Solvency and Multiemployer Pensions, tasked with crafting bipartisan legislation to solve the pension crisis this year. The Joint Select Committee will hold at least five public meetings, including one outside of Washington, and report out a solution to their House and Senate colleagues by the end of the year.
05.04.2018	ANN ARBOR, MI – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and Congressman Tim Walberg (MI-07) today co-hosted a Veterans Fair to provide veterans and their families throughout Washtenaw County with access to resources earned through their service to our country. Nearly 20 different veteran employment specialists, Veterans Affairs counselors, and veterans service organizations participated. Dingell and Walberg both represent parts of Washtenaw County, and this is the fourth Veterans Fair they have hosted for local veterans and their families. “The men and women who served our country deserve our gratitude and support, and we have a responsibility to ensure they have access to the resources they need when they return home,” said Dingell. “Today’s Veterans Fair was an opportunity to connect veterans and their families with the critical services they have earned. It is our hope that by holding these annual resource fairs that local veterans will know what is available to them and be able to access these benefits with ease.” “Veterans have sacrificed so much for our country, and in return, we have a duty to keep our promises to them and their families,” said Walberg. “I’m grateful to all the organizations that joined us at today’s Veterans Fair and provide health care, counseling, employment, and a wide variety of services. Michigan’s veterans deserve access to the very best care and benefits, and we’ll keep working in a bipartisan way to help our local heroes.” For photos, please click here and here. Veterans and their families from Michigan’s 12th District who need help with the VA or another federal agency are encouraged to call Dingell’s Dearborn office at (313)278-2936. Veterans from the 7th District can call Congressman Walberg’s Jackson office at (517)780-9075. Organizations that participated in today’s Veterans Fair include: American Legion Attorney General - Consumer Protection Buddy-to-Buddy Catholic Social Services of Washtenaw County Concordia University Dearborn Vet Center Detroit VARO (Veterans Benefits Administration) Disabled American Veterans Great Lakes National Cemetery Habitat for Humanity Huron Valley Michigan Veterans Affairs Agency (MVAA) National Guard Family Assistance Center Operation: Military Resources State Representative Donna Lasinski Talent Investment Agency, Veterans’ Employment Services VA Ann Arbor Healthcare System VA Loan Guaranty Division Veterans History Project
05.02.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, during a hearing of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Environment, U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) questioned Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Scott Pruitt about the agency’s recent rollback of a critical longstanding policy that limits toxic air pollution from factories and industrial operations. Dingell asked Pruitt whether EPA had conducted any assessment of the impact of this decision on public health or the magnitude of increased air pollution nationally. “It is disturbing and unacceptable that Administrator Pruitt could not answer significant questions on the real impact of EPA’s recent decision to rollback limits on toxic air pollutants, including many that cause cancer such as mercury, arsenic and lead,” said Dingell. “This is likely to have devastating consequences for people in communities across the country, yet Administrator Pruitt could not tell me whether EPA analyzed how this decision could impact the health of children, babies, pregnant women, older Americans or those with chronic health problems, or minority and low-income communities. He could only tell me that it provided an incentive to companies. “This should bother all of us. It is the responsibility of EPA to protect human health and the environment against potential harms, not subject the public to more hazards in order to increase industry profits. We know that this decision will increase emissions of toxic pollutants that are the worst of the worst, and Mr. Pruitt needs to be transparent immediately on whether public health was considered in this decision-making process. If we find that public health was not considered at all, this is just another reason why this flawed rollback should be reversed.” For video of Dingell’s questions and Pruitt’s answers, please click here. Yesterday, Dingell and Congressman Don Beyer (VA-08) led 87 Representatives in sending a letter to Pruitt urging him to reinstate the “once in, always in” policy for major sources of hazardous air pollutants. In January, EPA announced the roll back of this guidance—in place since 1995—without providing notice to the public or opportunity for comment. This policy institutes important safeguards to permanently reduce hazardous air pollutants (HAPs) known to cause cancer, reproductive harm and developmental issues in children. For more information, please click here.
05.02.2018	ANN ARBOR, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and U.S. Congressman Tim Walberg (MI-07) will co-host a Veterans Resource Fair in Washtenaw County on Friday, May 4 to provide veterans and their family members with access to resources earned through their service to our country. Nearly 20 veteran employment specialists, Veterans Affairs counselors, and veterans service organizations will participate. Constituents can call Congresswoman Dingell’s office at 313-278-2936 or Congressman Walberg’s office at 517-780-9075 for more information. Friday, May 4, 2018 WHAT: Walberg, Dingell to hold Washtenaw County Veterans Resource Fair WHEN: Friday, May 4 from 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. WHERE: VFW Post 423, 3230 S. Wagner Rd. in Ann Arbor PARTICIPATING ORGANIZATIONS: American Legion Attorney General - Consumer Protection Buddy-to-Buddy Catholic Social Services of Washtenaw County Concordia University Dearborn Vet Center Detroit VARO (Veterans Benefits Administration) Disabled American Veterans Great Lakes National Cemetery Habitat for Humanity Huron Valley Michigan Veterans Affairs Agency (MVAA) National Guard Family Assistance Center Operation: Military Resources State Representative Donna Lasinski Talent Investment Agency, Veterans’ Employment Services VA Ann Arbor Healthcare System VA Loan Guaranty Division Veterans History Project
04.25.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and Congressman Don Beyer (VA-08) today led 87 Representatives in urging Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Scott Pruitt to reinstate longstanding policy that requires factories and industrial operations to limit toxic air pollutants. In January, EPA announced the roll back of the “once in, always in” policy—critical guidance in place since 1995—without providing notice to the public or opportunity for comment. This policy institutes important safeguards to permanently reduce hazardous air pollutants (HAPs) known to cause cancer, reproductive harm and developmental issues in children. “The American public needs and deserves clean air and protection from hazardous air pollution,” the Representatives wrote. “This is a matter of critical human health and safety. We ask you to reverse your decision to rescind the ‘once in, always in’ policy, in order to safeguard future generations from harmful air pollutants.” The “once in, always in” policy focuses on “major sources” – factories and other large polluters that emit more than 10 tons of a single hazardous air pollutant such as mercury, arsenic, formaldehyde and lead, or 25 tons of more than one of these toxins. It requires polluters to use technology to permanently reduce, to the maximum extent possible, their emissions, which has resulted in an estimated reduction of 1.7 million tons of toxic air pollutants. Under the roll back, these polluters can legally increase their emissions of these hazardous air pollutants, causing serious health consequences for the public. “EPA’s unraveling of longstanding policy is among the most dangerous the Trump EPA has taken yet against public health,” said John Walke, Clean Air Director at the Natural Resources Defense Council. “We applaud Representatives Dingell and Beyer for opposing rollbacks of protective limits on known toxins, especially in communities already suffering a legacy of pollution.” In addition to Dingell and Beyer, the letter is signed by Reps. Frank Pallone (NJ-06), Nanette Diaz Barragán (CA-44), Paul D. Tonko (NY-20), Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC-00), Raúl M. Grijalva (AZ-03), Jerry McNerney (CA-09), Mike Quigley (IL-05), Jamie Raskin (MD-08), Mark Pocan (WI-02), Matt Cartwright (PA-17), Nydia M. Velázquez (NY-07), Betty McCollum (MN-04), Jimmy Gomez (CA-34), Jared Huffman (CA-02), Diana DeGette (CO-01), Bill Foster (IL-11), Jan Schakowsky (IL-09), Bobby L. Rush (IL-01), Gwen S. Moore (WI-04), Pramila Jayapal (WA-07), Gerald E. Connolly (VA-11), Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18), Wm. Lacy Clay (MO-01), Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Frederica S. Wilson (FL-24), Daniel W. Lipinski (IL-03), Gregorio Kilili Camacho Sablan (MP-00), Ruben Gallego (AZ-07), John Sarbanes (MD-03), Doris Matsui (CA-06), Ro Khanna (CA-17), Suzanne Bonamici (OR-01), Adam Smith (WA-09), Colleen Hanabusa (HI-01), Darren Soto (FL-09), Jared Polis (CO-02), Alan Lowenthal (CA-47), A. Donald McEachin (VA-04), Mark Takano (CA-41), James R. Langevin (RI-02), Donald M. Payne, Jr. (NJ-10), Henry C. “Hank” Johnson, Jr. (GA-04), Keith Ellison (MN-05), Dwight Evans (PA-02), James P. McGovern (MA-02), Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18), Michael E. Capuano (MA-07), Salud O. Carbajal (CA-24), John Lewis (GA-05), Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12), Jackie Speier (CA-14), Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), Ruben J. Kihuen (NV-04), Peter Welch (VT-AL), Rick Larsen (WA-02), Ted W. Lieu (CA-33), Rosa L. DeLauro (CT-03), Adam Schiff (CA-28), Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32), Jerrold Nadler (NY-10), Brenda L. Lawrence (MI-14), Jimmy Panetta (CA-20), Adriano Espaillat (NY-13), Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23), Luis V. Gutiérrez (IL-04), Susan A. Davis (CA-53), Kathy Castor (FL-14), José E. Serrano (NY-15), Brian Higgins (NY-26), John Garamendi (CA-03), John Yarmuth (KY-03), Linda T. Sánchez (CA-38), Emanuel Cleaver II (MO-05), Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13), Albio Sires (NJ-08), Stephen F. Lynch (MA-08), Joseph P. Kennedy III (MA-04), Seth Moulton (MA-06), Daniel T. Kildee (MI-15), Carol Shea-Porter (NH-01), Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11), Elizabeth H. Esty (CT-05), Ben Ray Luján (NM-03) and Zoe Lofgren (CA-19). The full letter can be read here and below. April 25, 2018 The Honorable Scott Pruitt Administrator U.S. Environmental Protection Agency 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20460 Dear Administrator Pruitt: We are concerned regarding the health and environmental consequences of a January 25, 2018, Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) memo, which dramatically weakens protections against toxic air pollution by withdrawing the long standing “once in, always in” (OIAI) policy. As you know, the Clean Air Act requires EPA to limit emissions of hazardous air pollutants (HAPs), including many known to cause cancer, harm development in children, and kill. The lengthy list includes mercury, arsenic, formaldehyde, benzene, asbestos, chlorine, cyanide, and lead. In the Clean Air Act amendments of 1990, Congress made major changes to the way EPA regulates these toxic emissions because the agency had regulated only seven HAPs in the preceding 20 years. Congress acted out of deep concern that Americans were dying of cancer and facing other serious adverse health effects as a result of exposure to industrial HAPs. Congress was quite prescriptive in its direction to the agency: we required EPA to issue rules limiting emissions of 189 toxic HAPs, from all categories of “major sources” of these pollutants. The law requires the “maximum degree of reduction in [HAP] emissions … including a prohibition on such emissions, where achievable.” Sources must employ “maximum achievable control technology” or “MACT” to reduce HAP emissions to levels that the top-performing sources in an industry sector already meet. Congressional concern with these carcinogens and neurotoxins was so great that the law also contains additional safeguards: periodic reviews for control technology updates; residual cancer risk authorities; strict compliance directives; and anti-backsliding provisions. From 1995 until this year, sources emitting HAPs were required to meet MACT standards if, on the date that the MACT standard went into effect, they had the potential to emit 10 tons of any one HAP or 25 tons of any combination of HAPs, annually (“10/25 ton per year threshold”). To ensure major sources kept those protections in place, EPA implemented what became known as the “once in, always in” policy, requiring major sources to continue to meet HAP emission limits based on MACT, even as they lowered and maintained emissions at or below MACT limits. EPA recognized that, without this policy, polluting sources could curtail use of MACT and increase their HAP emissions substantially above MACT-based emission limits, all the way up to the 10/25 ton per year threshold. On January 25, without providing any notice to the public or opportunity for comment on its step, EPA reversed this decades-old understanding. In a four-page memorandum, EPA announced that sources currently complying with MACT air toxics standards now have the option of getting out of all MACT requirements if their emissions are below the 10/25 ton per year threshold. EPA will permit this even if sources are currently subject to one or more MACT standards that reduces HAPs emissions well below that threshold, and even if that means sources may increase their hazardous emissions significantly and increase the health hazards to Americans in neighboring communities. This is not the first time EPA has tried to weaken protections against toxic air pollution so radically. When EPA proposed to take this same step more than 10 years ago, the agency’s own regional offices expressed concern that the proposal would allow HAPs to increase, and “would be detrimental to the environment and undermine the intent of the MACT program.” The regional offices further argued that many plants would take the opportunity to use the less stringent requirements, and “the cost of the increased [HAP] emissions would be borne by the communities surrounding the sources.” An EPA political appointee claimed at the time that industry would be motivated to be good neighbors and not increase emissions. However, after Congress inquired pointedly, this claim was revealed this to be little more than speculation, with no basis in fact. Thanks to the concerns raised during the open and transparent rulemaking process, EPA did not make the mistake of finalizing a proposal that would have jeopardized the health and welfare of the American public. Now, the current EPA has decided to re-litigate the past, purporting to authorize through mere guidance the approach of the failed 2007 proposed rule, and granting immediate permission to industries to increase HAPs substantially. What’s more, we now have a snapshot of the potential toxic impacts this policy would have on communities near, and downwind from, the thousands of major sources subject to MACT. Last month, the Environmental Integrity Project released a brief analysis of the current HAP emissions of 12 major sources in the Midwest, and their potential emission increases without longstanding protections from HAPs. Combined, these facilities released over 121,000 pounds of HAPs annually in 2016, including neurotoxins like lead and carcinogens like benzene. Without the safeguards preserved in EPA’s 1995 policy, the report found that “the total emissions from these major sources could more than quadruple to a total of 540,000 pounds a year, because the new exemption allows such facilities to save money by cutting back on their pollution controls.” Furthermore, the report highlighted the danger in relying on corporations to report their emissions to prove their HAP emissions are below the 10/25 ton per year threshold and will remain there. The report noted major sources “seldom actually measure their hazardous emissions” on their own volition, so monitoring requirements were created in scores of MACT standards to keep them honest. But EPA’s reversal of an essential protection against toxic air pollution would allow industrial emitters to no longer meet the monitoring, recordkeeping, or reporting requirements in MACT standards. This is in addition to letting polluting facilities evade the emission limits that protect Americans from increased HAPs. The Environmental Defense Fund released a second report assessing the toxic air pollution impacts on the Houston-Galveston region from EPA’s new loophole, focusing on at least 18 potentially eligible facilities. The report found that if all these facilities took advantage of the loophole to the maximum extent allowed by EPA’s January rollback, the “total annual emissions of hazardous air pollutants from these facilities would increase by almost 146 percent over 2014 levels, to a total of 900,000 pounds.” Moreover, the report identified eight more facilities that appear eligible for the loophole; adding these facilities would increase emissions by 400,000 more pounds. EPA’s new loophole would allow a total increase of an astonishing 1.3 million pounds of HAPs from just these 26 industrial facilities in the Houston-Galveston region. We share the serious concerns of those who opposed past attempts to undermine legal protections against HAP increases. The Environmental Integrity Project and Environmental Defense Fund analyses make our concerns far more pressing. This alarming information demands your immediate attention. The American public needs and deserves clean air and protection from hazardous air pollution. This is a matter of critical human health and safety. We ask you to reverse your decision to rescind the “once in, always in” policy, in order to safeguard future generations from harmful air pollutants. Thank you in advance for considering this timely and important request. Sincerely,
04.24.2018	DEARBORN, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) hosted a community forum entitled “Challenges and Opportunities: A discussion about Arab Women in public service.” She hosted members of the Empowering Kuwaiti Women in Politics (EKWIP) program with local leaders and officials to discuss the persistent barriers facing women seeking public office in the U.S. and around the world and the important role women play in shaping public policy. “Women bring a unique and important perspective to the policy-making dialogue – whether it’s in the United States, Kuwait or elsewhere around the world,” said Dingell. “While we’ve made progress in increasing the number of women in public service, much work remains to ensure our governing bodies are truly representative of our diverse communities. It is my hope that by bringing emerging women leaders together for conversations like this one, we can help break down barriers and improve women’s representation in public service around the world.” “Participating in the forum was both rewarding and enlightening,” said Dearborn City Council President Susan Dabaja. “I look forward to those opportunities where I can share my experience and knowledge as a woman in politics in hopes that I can encourage other females to forge forward and continue the fight for equal voice and opportunity.” “The EKWIP future leaders meeting with Representative Dingell was both inspiring and illuminating,” said Dr. Alanoud Alsharekh of Ibtkar Strategic Consultancy. “Her frank discussion of the challenges she faced demonstrated that the cultural differences are not as important as the entrenched patriarchy in most political systems.” In addition to Dabaja and Alsharekh, Dingell was joined by Alyaa Mugaddas of the Empowering Kuwaiti Women in Politics program, State Representative Abdullah Hammoud, Ghida Dagher of United Way Southeast Michigan, and Rana Elmir of the American Civil Liberties Union. The Empowering Kuwaiti Women in Politics program is a State Department initiative hosting 15 Kuwaiti women in the U.S. who are eager to break into Kuwaiti politics. Kuwaiti women were granted the right to vote and stand for parliamentary and municipal elections beginning in 2006. There is currently only one female representative in the country’s 65-member governing body.
04.24.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12), Congresswoman Carol Shea-Porter (NH-01), and Senator Edward Markey (D-MA) today are introducing legislation that would create a grant program at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) to assist state and local education agencies, institutions of higher education, and professional associations to improve climate literacy. Climate change education teaches students at all age levels about climate adaptation and mitigation; climate resilience; and the effects of climate change on our environment, energy sources, and our social and economic systems. Only 30 percent of middle school teachers and only 45 percent of high school science teachers understand the extent of the scientific consensus on climate change, according to Yale University Research. Over 97 percent of actively publishing climate scientists agree that human activity is the likely cause of climate change. The Climate Change Education Act would establish a grant program to promote climate literacy by broadening students’ understanding of climate change, the consequences of climate change, and potential solutions. It would support the application of the latest scientific and technological discoveries by promoting formal and informal learning opportunities that emphasize actionable information. The grants would also support professional development for teachers; science, technology, health and engineering education; the development of climate literacy curricula; and improve the quality of and access to training and certification for green-collar jobs. “Since the first Earth Day in 1970, we’ve made significant progress in recognizing and combatting environmental threats to the planet, but much work remains – particularly when it comes to mitigating the real and pressing impacts of climate change,” said Congresswoman Dingell. “No one can deny that today, sea levels are rising, weather is becoming more severe, droughts are decimating crops and floods are devastating communities. This extreme weather impacts our environment and our economy, and it’s critical that our next generation of leaders have the knowledge and skills to help address this pressing problem. I am proud to work with Congresswoman Shea-Porter and Senator Markey to create a new grant program that will help prepare students to do just that while taking advantage of opportunities in the 21st century energy economy.” “On Earth Day, we celebrate our incredible planet, but we also recognize the enormous challenges ahead of us to protect it in the face of major climate events such as unprecedented flooding and devastating superstorms that are happening across our country at a record pace,” said Congresswoman Shea-Porter. “We owe it to our states and local governments to ensure that they are prepared with the knowledge and know-how to understand what is happening and to mitigate the impacts of these events. That’s why I worked with Senator Markey and Congresswoman Dingell to craft legislation to create a grant program to help fund climate literacy programs in our schools and institutions of higher education. Every student that graduates from high school should be climate-literate and ready to hit the ground running to counteract the increasingly devastating future effects of our changing climate.” “The Climate Change Education Act creates opportunities for Americans to combat climate change through education, innovation, and workforce training,” said Senator Markey. “We must ensure that our teachers are informed with the most current and accurate scientific data, that our students are educated about climate change, and that our businesses are providing jobs in the new clean energy economy. By introducing the Climate Change Education Act, we’re giving students, teachers, and families the tools they need to protect our planet for future generations.” The Climate Change Education Act authorizes $20 million a year from 2019 through 2024 to be appropriated to NOAA to establish the Climate Education program office and administer the grant program. The legislation is endorsed by the Union of Concerned Scientists, the Campaign for Environmental Literacy, the Alliance for Climate Education, the Association for the Advancement of Sustainability in Higher Education, the National Center for Science Education, the National Wildlife Federation, the North American Association for Environmental Education, and Earth Day Network. Senators Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Kamala Harris (D-CA), and Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) are original cosponsors in the Senate. In the House, the legislation is cosponsored by Reps. Gallego (AZ-7), Hanabusa (HI-01), McGovern (MA-02), Watson-Coleman (NJ-12), and Wasserman-Schultz (FL-23).
04.18.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today introduced the Defective Firearms Protection Act, legislation that allows the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) to address safety defects in firearms like they would for any other consumer product by potentially issuing safety warnings and issuing recalls if necessary. Today firearms are excluded from the definition of a consumer product, which prohibits the CPSC from addressing safety issues in firearms. “Currently, the Consumer Product Safety Commission can order the recall thousands of defective products, from bicycles to high chairs to lightbulbs,” said Dingell. “However, if a firearm is found to be defective or pose a safety risk, nothing can be done to address it. As a result, faulty guns remain on the market that can be fired with the safety still engaged and without anyone pulling the trigger. This legislation will help ensure that defective and unsafe guns are addressed immediately so we can prevent accidents that can turn deadly.” In 2016, a 28-year-old Georgia man named Jarred Brown was killed when the gun he was carrying fired in its holster, sending a bullet through his femoral artery. Following his death, Jarred’s family learned that the gun was part of a class-action lawsuit against the manufacturer which asserted that because of design and manufacturing defects, the gun could fire unintentionally when bumped, dropped or when the safety is on. Despite offering to repair or replace nine different handguns following the settlement, the company denied any negligence and wrongdoing. Dingell’s legislation aims to help prevent such accidents by removing barriers in current law that prevent the CPSC from addressing defective pistols, revolvers or firearms.
04.16.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Representatives Debbie Dingell (MI-12), Ryan Costello (PA-06) and Gwen Moore (WI-04) launched the Bipartisan Working Group to End Domestic Violence, a new caucus bringing together members of Congress and key stakeholders dedicated to ending domestic violence, creating innovative prevention strategies, and strengthening resources for survivors and their children. “Domestic violence does not discriminate. It impacts people of every age, race, gender, socioeconomic status, sexual orientation, and yes, political persuasion,” said Congresswoman Dingell. “It’s an honor to work with my colleagues Congressman Costello and Congresswoman Moore to begin these important conversations about domestic abuse and its wide-ranging implications. Our goal today, tomorrow and the day after is to end domestic violence, and we are fortunate to have the foremost domestic violence organizations ready to share how we can accomplish that goal. This is not a Democratic or Republican priority, and it is our hope that by engaging on a regular monthly basis with experts and our colleagues we can find new ways to collaborate and move closer to communities that are free from violence and assault.” “This working group will be an important forum for sharing ideas for legislation and other efforts that can reduce domestic violence in Pennsylvania and across the country,” said Congressman Costello. “I’m proud to work with Congresswoman Dingell and Congresswoman Moore to advance solutions that can result in real change for survivors of domestic violence and their families.” “Since coming to Congress, one of my primary passions has been freeing our communities from the terror of domestic violence,” said Congresswoman Moore. “This bipartisan working group takes a critical step forward to achieving that goal. I am hopeful that we will build innovative solutions that lift up survivors and protect future generations from domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking.” Facilitated by the National Task Force to End Domestic Violence, the working group will convene each month to receive presentations from experts representing diverse domestic violence issue areas, including immigration and forced marriage, LGBTQ issues, campus sexual assault, violence against those with disabilities and violence in tribal communities. The working group will explore the policy implications around domestic violence and ways Congress can craft legislation that supports survivors and establish prevention programs for future generations. During the first working group meeting today, Members received a presentation by the National Task Force to End Domestic Violence on gender-based violence. Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18), ranking member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations also provided an update on the reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA). Next month’s working group meeting will focus on the nexus between domestic violence and firearms.
04.11.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today questioned Facebook Chairman and CEO Mark Zuckerberg at a hearing of the House Energy and Commerce Committee entitled, “Facebook: Transparency and Use of Consumer Data.” Dingell pressed Zuckerberg about the questions he failed to answer during his congressional testimony regarding Facebook’s business practices, as well as the extent to which Facebook collects information about users across the internet, even those who do not have Facebook accounts. “I worry that when I hear companies ‘value’ our privacy, it’s meant in monetary terms, and not the moral obligation they have to protect it,” Dingell said. “Data protection is like clean air and water. There need to be clear rules of the road.” The full exchange between Dingell and Zuckerberg can be read below. Video is available here. Dingell: I know Facebook’s value – I’ve used it for a long time – but with that value also comes obligation. We’ve all been sitting here for more than four hours. Some things are striking in this conversation. As CEO, you didn’t know some key facts. You didn’t know about major court cases regarding your privacy policies against your company. You didn’t know that the FTC doesn’t have fining authority and that Facebook could not have received fines for the 2011 consent order. You didn’t know what a shadow profile was. You didn’t know how many apps you need to audit. You did not know how many other firms have been sold data by Dr. Kogan other than Cambridge Analytica and Eunoia Technologies even though you were asked that question yesterday. You don’t even know the all the kinds of information Facebook is collecting from its own users. Here’s what I do know. You have trackers all over the web. On practically every website you go to, we all see the Facebook Like or Facebook Share buttons. And with Facebook Pixel, people browsing the internet may not even see any Facebook logo. It doesn’t matter whether you have a Facebook account. Through those tools, Facebook is able to collect information from all of us. So I want to ask you. How many Facebook Like buttons are there on non-Facebook web pages? Zuckerberg: Congresswoman, I don’t know the answer to that off the top of my head, but we’ll get back to you. Dingell: Is the number over 100 million? Zuckerberg: I believe we’ve served the Like button on pages more than that, but I don’t know the number of pages that have the Like button on actively. Dingell: How many Facebook Share buttons are there on non-Facebook web pages? Zuckerberg: I don’t know the answer to that exactly off the top of my head either, but that’s something that we can follow up with you on. Dingell: And do we think that’s over 100 million? Likely. Dingell: How many chunks of Facebook Pixel code are there on non-Facebook web pages? Zuckerberg: Congresswoman, you’re asking some specific stats that I don’t know off the top of my head, but we can follow up with you and get back to you on all of these. Dingell: Can you commit to get back to the Committee? The European Union is asking for 72 hours on transparency. Do you think we could get that back in Committee in 72 hours? Zuckerberg: Congresswoman, I will talk to my team and we will follow up. Dingell: I know you are still reviewing but do you know now whether there are other fourth parties that had access to the data from someone other than Dr. Kogan or is this something we’re going to find out in a press release down the road? I think what worries all of us, and you’ve heard it today, is it has taken almost three years to hear about that, and I am convinced that there are other people out there. Zuckerberg: As I have said a number of times, we are now going to investigate every single app that had access to a large amount of people’s information in the past before we lock down the platform. I do imagine that we will find some apps that were either doing something suspicious or misused people’s data. If we find them, then we will ban them from the platform, take action to make sure they delete the data and make sure that everyone involved is informed. Dingell: And you’ll make it public quickly? Not in three years? Zuckerberg: As soon as we find them. Dingell: I’m going to conclude because my time is almost up. I worry that when I hear companies “value” our privacy, it’s meant in monetary terms, and not the moral obligation they have to protect it. Data protection is like clean air and water. There need to be clear rules of the road.
04.06.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Following disturbing revelations that Cambridge Analytica obtained the personal data from more than 87 million Facebook users, U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) is urging the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to investigate whether consumers’ viewing or other personal data was also sold to Cambridge Analytica. In a letter to FCC Chairman Ajit Pai, Dingell said the investigation should consider whether Cambridge Analytica used such data to influence the 2016 Presidential Election, and whether the company’s use of such data violated the Communications Act. In the letter, Dingell cited comments by Cambridge Analytica program director Brittany Kaiser, who in a 2016 interview, claimed that the company purchased consumers’ viewing or other personal data. Kaiser notes that these data are exceptionally detailed and can “tell you exactly when someone logs in, what they are recording, [and] what they fast forward through.” “What’s more,” Dingell wrote, “[R]eports indicate that Cambridge Analytica’s Chief Revenue Officer claimed earlier this year that the company could not only use such viewing habits to understand voters’ preferences, but that the company could also use that data in conjunction with new smart TVs and set-top-boxes to target political content on televisions.” “Given the specific protections laid out under the Communications Act and the troubling scope of the recent revelations regarding Cambridge Analytica, I believe the Commission should bring its investigatory resources to bear to protect consumers’ privacy,” Dingell continued. “Specifically, I request the Commission investigate whether any entity under the FCC’s oversight provided its subscribers’ personally identifiable information or viewing habits to Cambridge Analytica, and whether such disclosure violated the Communications Act. Further, such an investigation should seek to uncover the business relationship between these companies and Cambridge Analytica, including any understanding by the companies of how Cambridge Analytica used such data and whether Cambridge Analytica planned to use the data to influence the 2016 Presidential Election.” The full letter can be read here and below. April 6, 2018 The Honorable Ajit V. Pai Chairman Federal Communications Commission 445 12th Street SW Washington, DC 20554 Dear Chairman Pai: I write to ask the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to open an investigation into whether Cambridge Analytica has or has ever had access to consumers viewing or other personal data, whether Cambridge Analytica used such data to influence the 2016 Presidential Election, and whether Cambridge Analytica’s use of such data violated the Communications Act.[1] Reports have surfaced indicating that Cambridge Analytica—a data analysis firm with close ties to President’s Trump’s 2016 Election Campaign—has used consumers’ personal information without consent.[2] Reports have focused primarily on how Cambridge Analytica obtained intimate data from more than 87 million Facebook users.[3] Yet, statements made by officers at Cambridge Analytica indicate that they may have also obtained the specific viewing habits of many subscribers in the United States.[4] Specifically, Cambridge Analytica program director Brittany Kaiser claimed as part of a 2016 interview that the company purchased consumers viewing or other personal data.[5] Kaiser notes that these data are exceptionally detailed and can “tell you exactly when someone logs in, what they are recording, [and] what they fast forward through.”[6] What’s more, reports indicate that Cambridge Analytica’s Chief Revenue Officer claimed earlier this year that the company could not only use such viewing habits to understand voters’ preferences, but that the company could also use that data in conjunction with new smart TVs and set-top-boxes to target political content on televisions.[7] Given these reports, the FCC has a responsibility to launch an investigation to uncover whether any entity that the FCC regulates sold or otherwise provided any subscriber data to Cambridge Analytica and, if so, whether such provision of data violated the Communications Act. Sections 338 and 631 of the Communications Act provide several protections for sensitive subscriber information of the type Cambridge Analytica claims to have obtained. The privacy protections in both Sections 338 and 631 include a requirement that operators provide an annual notice to their subscribers describing the “nature” of the information that will be collected by the operator and the nature of the use of such information. [8] Such disclosure must also detail the types of persons with whom the data may be shared.[9] Importantly, both sections also require that an operator obtain the prior written or electronic consent of a subscriber before collecting personally identifiable information.[10] Finally, the law requires that operators “take such actions as are necessary” to prevent unauthorized access to subscribers’ viewing habits.[11] Given the specific protections laid out under the Communications Act and the troubling scope of the recent revelations regarding Cambridge Analytica, I believe the Commission should bring its investigatory resources to bear to protect consumers’ privacy. Specifically, I request the Commission investigate whether any entity under the FCC’s oversight provided its subscribers’ personally identifiable information or viewing habits to Cambridge Analytica, and whether such disclosure violated the Communications Act. Further, such an investigation should seek to uncover the business relationship between these companies and Cambridge Analytica, including any understanding by the companies of how Cambridge Analytica used such data and whether Cambridge Analytica planned to use the data to influence the 2016 Presidential Election. I appreciate your assistance with this important matter. Please provide a response to this letter within three weeks of receipt. Should you have any questions regarding this request, please contact Kevin Dollhopf in the Office of Congresswoman Debbie Dingell at (202) 225-4071 Sincerely, Debbie Dingell Member of Congress
04.05.2018	DEARBORN, MI – Today, U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) reminded all high school students who live or attend school in Michigan’s 12th Congressional District to participate in the 2018 Congressional Art Competition. The winning artwork will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C. for one year alongside other first place winners from across the country. “The Congressional Art Competition is an opportunity for students around the 12th District to showcase their artistic talent and represent their communities in the halls of Congress,” said Dingell. “The talent we see each year in this competition is truly impressive, and I look forward to seeing the inspiring and creative works submitted for 2018. When young people have the opportunity to tap into their creativity, new doors are opened and new paths are discovered, which is why these programs are so important.” The Congressional Art Competition is a nationwide annual event that allows high school students from all fifty states, the District of Columbia, and territories to showcase their artistic ability. The winning artwork from each Congressional district is displayed in an eleven-month exhibit in the United States Capitol. The winner and his or her family members are invited to Washington, D.C. for the unveiling of the artwork. The second and third place submissions will be displayed in Dingell’s Dearborn office for the next year. Dingell will host the Michigan 12th District competition on Saturday, May 5, 2018 from 2-4 p.m. at Wayne County Community College Downriver Campus in Taylor, with a reception following for students, teachers, families and friends. Each framed artwork must be two-dimensional and no larger than 26 inches high, 26 inches wide, and 4 inches deep. No framed piece should weigh more than 15 pounds. For additional guidelines, please click here. All submissions must follow the art competition guidelines and be submitted no later than 5 p.m. on Tuesday, April 17, 2018. Artwork can be dropped off at Dingell’s Dearborn Office at 19855 West Outer Drive, Suite 103-E in Dearborn or participants may call the office at 313-278-2936 to arrange for pickup. Interested applicants may direct any questions to Donyale Martin at 313-278-2936 or via email at Donyale.Martin@mail.house.gov.
03.30.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – As the NCAA Tournament semifinals kick off this weekend, Reps. Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and Jan Schakowsky (IL-09) wagered on whether the Michigan Wolverines or the Loyola Ramblers would win in Saturday’s Final Four game. If the Wolverines win, Schakowsky will have to wear a Michigan jersey for a day, if Loyola wins, Dingell will have to sport Ramblers gear. “Like all of America, I’ve fallen in love with Sister Jean and the Ramblers, but the Wolverines have John Dingell, Grammie and Coach Beilein on their side,” said Rep. Dingell. “As John Dingell said, we all ‘pray to the same guy upstairs, so we’ll just have to see what he decides.’ But what we do know is that Coach Beilein will have the Wolverines ready to go, and their well-balanced attack, rock-solid defense and strong team play will be tough to beat – even for the Ramblers and Sister Jean. We’re looking forward to cheering them on this weekend. Go Blue!” “As much as I love Michigan superfans Debbie and John Dingell, I can’t wait to watch the Ramblers beat the Wolverines tomorrow,” said Rep. Schakowsky. “With Sister Jean on our side, Coach Porter Moser calling our shots, and the Ramblers exhibiting the team work and accuracy they have had all season long, there truly is ‘no finish line.’ Ramble on!” The Wolverines will face the Ramblers in the NCAA Final Four game on Saturday, March 31, 2018. The game is at the Alamodome in San Antonio, Texas at 6:09 p.m. Eastern.
03.30.2018	DEARBORN, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today led a letter to Office of Management and Budget Director Mick Mulvaney and Department of Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross urging them to reconsider their decision to exclude a Middle Eastern or North African (MENA) category in the 2020 census. Dingell and her colleagues requested a detailed accounting of how the Administration reached this decision, citing exhaustive testing and research conducted by the U.S. Census Bureau which found that adding a MENA category would improve the accuracy of census data. “For over three decades now, community organizations and advocates have been working tirelessly to be properly counted on the decennial census under a separate MENA designation,” the Representatives wrote. “The addition of a MENA category would mean many undercounted communities will no longer be overlooked; overall data collection accuracy on the U.S. population will improve; policymakers will be more informed; our ability to uphold important civil rights laws and prevent discrimination will increase; and we will have greater access to MENA-specific health statistics and better allocation of educational grants.” Dingell and her colleagues noted that the decision to exclude a MENA category is particularly concerning since the U.S. Census Bureau announced this week it would include an untested question on citizenship in the 2020 census. “The U.S. Census Bureau has exhaustingly researched the use of a MENA category on decennial census surveys, finding that its inclusion would actually improve the accuracy of census data and that it would be both appropriate and beneficial for the 2020 census,” the Representatives continued. “These results, combined with the overwhelming support of MENA stakeholders for the inclusion of the category as an ethnicity, makes the decision not to include it all the more irresponsible. “We should strive to improve census data collection each decade to ensure the count is accurate and inclusive for future generations—it is in the best interest of every American and a responsible government to have a detailed and accurate understanding of its people.” Dingell was joined on the letter by Reps. Gerald Connolly (VA-11), Joe Crowley (NY-14), Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), Zoe Lofgren (CA-19), Gwen Moore (WI-04), Bill Pascrell (NJ-09) and Darren Soto (FL-09). The full letter can be read here and below. March 30, 2018 The Honorable Mick M. Mulvaney Director The Office of Management and Budget 725 17th Street, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20503 The Honorable Wilbur L. Ross Secretary U.S. Department of Commerce 1401 Constitution Avenue, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20230 Dear Director Mulvaney and Secretary Ross: We write to express our disappointment and register our concerns regarding the Administration’s recent announcement that the 2020 Decennial Census will not include a new designated category for all those who identify as Middle Eastern or North African (MENA). To that end, we request a detailed accounting of how this decision was reached, and, considering the implications this has for many across the country, we also urge you to reconsider your decision and include a separate MENA category as an ethnicity in the 2020 Census questionnaire. Since our founding, we have deployed enumerators far and wide to accurately count the U.S. population. The count, a requirement under the U.S. Constitution, is a key element of determining our representative democracy, as well as helping to understand the makeup of district constituencies, redistricting, and distributing more than $675 billion[1] in federal funds. By not including a MENA category we jeopardize a full and accurate count, creating real consequences for vulnerable populations. For over three decades now, community organizations and advocates have been working tirelessly to be properly counted on the decennial census under a separate MENA designation. The January 28, 2018, announcement[2] not to include MENA was a disappointing setback for these groups as well as an invalidation of the time, research, and stakeholder consultation that has been undertaken by the seasoned demographers at the U.S. Census Bureau. The addition of a MENA category would mean many undercounted communities will no longer be overlooked; overall data collection accuracy on the U.S. population will improve; policymakers will be more informed; our ability to uphold important civil rights laws and prevent discrimination will increase; and we will have greater access to MENA-specific health statistics and better allocation of educational grants. This decision is specifically concerning since the U.S. Census Bureau announced this week it would also include an untested question on citizenship that would be destabilizing to the overall decennial process this late in the cycle, as noted by many key stakeholders. The U.S. Census Bureau has exhaustingly researched the use of a MENA category on decennial census surveys, finding that its inclusion would actually improve the accuracy of census data and that it would be both appropriate and beneficial for the 2020 Census.[3] These results, combined with the overwhelming support of MENA stakeholders for the inclusion of the category as an ethnicity[4], makes the decision not to include it all the more irresponsible. We should strive to improve census data collection each decade to ensure the count is accurate and inclusive for future generations—it is in the best interest of every American and a responsible government to have a detailed and accurate understanding of its people. Thank you in advance for your attention and consideration of this timely request. We urge you to reconsider and look forward to receiving a full and detailed response to understand the decision not to including a MENA category for the 2020 Decennial Census. Sincerely,
03.30.2018	DEARBORN, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement on the Environmental Protection Agency’s expected announcement on fuel economy standards. “The expected announcement by the EPA that current fuel economy standards for model year 2022-2025 are not attainable is the beginning of a process. While the decision itself is not surprising from this Administration, what happens next is very important. It is critical that all stakeholders, including California, automakers, environmentalists and the Administration, remain at the table to reach consensus on standards that meet the dual goals of environmental protection and affordability. “While much has changed since these standards were implemented in 2012, nobody can deny that strong fuel economy standards have helped keep our environment clean, reduced our dependence on foreign oil, and saved consumers money at the pump. We need to maintain the strong, upward trajectory of fuel economy standards to ensure that we are protecting the environment and giving industry the certainty they need so we don’t undermine the economic health of these companies. I also believe that we should be setting strong standards through 2030. One challenge is to determine how newer technologies are included in these calculations. “The Administration must respect and understand the importance of California in this discussion, and California must remain at the table so that we are all working together to ensure strong, workable standards that protect jobs and the environment and keep pace with innovation and technology so the United States remains competitive. Everybody wins if we work together. Everybody loses if we don’t.”
03.29.2018	DEARBORN – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) this week celebrated two important milestones for improving long-term care for seniors in southeast Michigan – the expansion of the Huron Valley PACE facility in Ypsilanti and the grand opening of a new PACE Southeast Michigan facility in Dearborn. PACE, which stands for Program for All-Inclusive Care for the Elderly, helps older adults live independently at home by providing comprehensive health care and support services for seniors all in one place. “PACE has been an important part of our community for many years, and these expansions in Ypsilanti and Dearborn will help them continue their work as national leaders in long-term care,” said Dingell. “With 10,000 Americans turning 65 every day, it is critical that we have support systems in place to ensure seniors can live independently – with the highest quality of life – for the longest time possible, while continuing to be active, contributing members of their communities. PACE represents a high quality, efficient and effective way to provide long-term care for people who need it, and these expansions allow more seniors to access the high quality care the program provides. I will continue working to protect and expand Medicare and Medicaid, which support this critical program, and ensure we have the resources necessary to improve long-term care in this country.” Dingell is committed to working in Congress to find innovative solutions that bring the long-term health care system into the 21st century. The first bill she introduced, the Medicare Hearing Aid Coverage Act, helps solve one piece of the puzzle by expanding Medicare to cover hearing aids and exams. This month, Dingell also introduced the EMPOWER and Care Act to help seniors and those with disabilities receive long-term services and supports in their homes and communities by reauthorizing the Money Follows the Person (MFP) Demonstration Program. For more information, please click here.
03.29.2018	DEARBORN, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and U.S. Congressman Bill Pascrell, Jr. (NJ-09) wrote a letter to U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) Robert E. Lighthizer calling on him to instill greater transparency in ongoing trade negotiations. Dingell and Pascrell highlight that the USTR has failed to exercise suitable transparency or consult with Congress in several areas, including in the renegotiation of the U.S.-South Korea trade agreement and in issuing key reports. The letter also reminds Ambassador Lighthizer that he is required to name a Chief Transparency Officer to strengthen transparency and interbranch cooperation in trade. “[W]ith the NAFTA renegotiation at a critical phase and the KORUS also under renegotiation, we are seriously concerned that you still have not designated an individual at USTR to serve as Chief Transparency Officer,” Dingell and Pascrell write. “We will continue consulting and working with you on the specific concerns raised in our August letter and the additional concerns outlined here. This is critical to ensuring that Members of Congress, their staff, advisory committee members, and the public receive timely access to trade negotiation information so that we are accountable for U.S. trade policy to the fullest extent possible,” the letter concludes. In August 2017, Reps. Pascrell and Dingell and 50 of their House colleagues wrote to Ambassador Lighthizer detailing their belief that guidelines formulated by the USTR did not adequately adhere to requirements passed by Congress. The text of this week’s letter can be read below. March 28, 2018 The Honorable Robert Lighthizer United States Trade Representative Office of the U.S. Trade Representative 600 17th Street, NW Washington, DC 20508 Dear Ambassador Lighthizer: We received your recent response to a letter that we, along with 50 of our House Democratic colleagues, wrote to you in August 2017 (attached) to emphasize the importance of the requirements placed on USTR by the Bipartisan Congressional Trade Priorities and Accountability Act of 2015 (TPA) to facilitate transparency, encourage public participation, and promote collaboration in the trade negotiations process. In our August letter, we expressed our view that elements of the consultation guidelines developed by USTR in 2015, pursuant to TPA’s requirements, fell short of our expectations. We identified a number of areas for improvement in USTR’s policies and guidelines for its engagement with Congress, including access to negotiating and related text authored by the Administration and other parties to trade negotiations. We would like to see increased access for Members of Congress, Congressional staff, the advisory committees, and the public. While we appreciate your written response to the letter, we were disappointed that it was sent nearly six months after your office received the original letter and that it failed to respond to the specific issues that we raised. In the meantime, while recognizing some of USTR’s more recent efforts to increase communications with Members of Congress and their staff, we continue to encounter frustrations with lapses in transparency and new deficiencies in consultative engagement. These are exemplified by the following actions taken by the Administration: Initiation of the renegotiation of the U.S.-South Korea trade agreement (KORUS) without articulating specific objectives or process for the exercise; Decision, to date, to adopt parameters for Congressional and cleared stakeholder consultations on the KORUS renegotiation that differ from and are significantly weaker than those USTR is employing in the NAFTA renegotiation; and Failure to produce or publish reports called for by the President regarding causes of significant trade deficits, Buy American policies, and violations or abuses of WTO rules and trade agreements. When we sent our letter last August, we also asked that you immediately designate a Chief Transparency Officer at USTR. TPA requires that USTR appoint a Chief Transparency Officer whose responsibility is to “consult with Congress on transparency policy, coordinate transparency in trade negotiations, engage and assist the public, and advise the United States Trade Representative on transparency policy.” More than six months later, with the NAFTA renegotiation at a critical phase and the KORUS also under renegotiation, we are seriously concerned that you still have not designated an individual at USTR to serve as Chief Transparency Officer. Earlier reports indicated that you intended to appoint incoming Deputy U.S. Trade Representative CJ Mahoney to fulfill this role. Now that Amb. Mahoney is confirmed and sworn in, we congratulate and welcome him to his new role. We also urge you to formally designate Amb. Mahoney the USTR Chief Transparency Officer as soon as possible. We welcome the opportunity to meet with Amb. Mahoney so that we may further discuss our expectations for the Chief Transparency Officer role and what a fully transparent process during trade negotiations and renegotiations should entail. We will continue consulting and working with you on the specific concerns raised in our August letter and the additional concerns outlined here. This is critical to ensuring that Members of Congress, their staff, advisory committee members, and the public receive timely access to trade negotiation information so that we are accountable for U.S. trade policy to the fullest extent possible. Sincerely, ____________________________________ Bill Pascrell, Jr. Ranking Member Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee ____________________________________ Debbie Dingell Member of Congres
03.23.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – As students from across the country prepare to march on Saturday, U.S. Representatives Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and Fred Upton (MI-06), Co-Chairs of the bipartisan Problem Solvers Caucus Working Group on Response to the Parkland Shooting, announced they are continuing to work together to find bipartisan consensus on meaningful legislation to reduce gun violence in our communities. The caucus reached agreement on commonsense measures to improve school safety and fund mental illness research, which successfully passed the House of Representatives and Senate in the omnibus funding agreement. “The work of the Problem Solvers Caucus is just beginning,” said Dingell. “We have a responsibility to keep our children and communities safe, and with thousands of children marching in Washington and across the country this weekend, it is critical that we give them hope. Congressman Upton and I remain committed to working with our colleagues – Democrats and Republicans – toward meaningful legislation to ensure our kids can go to school and feel safe, including measures to improve and strengthen the background check system, expand ‘Red Flag’ laws, and close loopholes that allow domestic abusers access to guns. The time to act is now, and we must all have the courage and conviction to advance meaningful solutions that will save lives.” “Looking forward, we urge our leadership and colleagues to join us in fair, full, and thoughtful debate on solutions to tragic gun violence,” said Upton. “The students converging on Washington and those that we are joining in Michigan are pleading for action. We owe it to them to deliver. There is plenty of blame to go around for past tragedies, but what can Congress do now to prevent more? We have made progress on a host of fronts – but we are not done. Our discussions continue on developing common-sense ‘Red Flag’ legislation, banning Bump Stocks, and stricter background checks to include new domestic violence protections. There are plenty of areas we can find agreement but it will take commitment, courage, and consensus. Our bipartisan work continues.” The forty-eight member bipartisan Problem Solvers Caucus, led by Co-Chairs Tom Reed (NY-23) and Josh Gottheimer (NJ-05), launched the Working Group in response to the tragedy in Parkland, Florida, to find common ground between Republicans and Democrats. The Working Group, co-chaired by Upton and Dingell, has partnered with key stakeholders and Members of Congress on both sides of the aisle to find consensus for sensible policy on preventing gun violence and ensuring school safety. Congressman Brian Fitzpatrick (PA-08), Congresswoman Elizabeth Esty (CT-05) and Congresswoman Stephanie Murphy (FL-07) also serve on the Problem Solvers Caucus Working Group. The Problem Solvers Caucus agreed to support H.R. 4477, the Fix NICS Act of 2017; H.R. 4909, the STOP School Violence Act of 2018; H.R. 4811, the Securing Our Schools Act of 2018; and appropriations to fund mental health programs established in the 21st Century Cures Act, all of which were passed by the House of Representatives and Senate and recently signed into law. The Caucus also agreed to support H.R. 3999, legislation to ban the manufacture, sale, and use of “bump stocks” and similar devices, and H.R. 4471, the NICS Denial Notification Act of 2017. “We must work together to find a comprehensive solution to violence in our schools, which is what the Problem Solvers Caucus looks to achieve. We have to focus on the full picture by addressing mental illness, funding School Resource Officers, and enhancing the background check system. It’s time we ensure that when our kids leave for school in the morning, that they will be safe and protected,” – Problem Solvers Caucus Co-Chair Tom Reed. “America’s teachers and students deserve better to prevent violence in our schools. There’s no reason we shouldn’t be able to end gun violence and ensure that our children are safe in school. I’m proud that, after Parkland, our caucus has overcome the traditional partisan divide on this issue and took the first steps to deliver a plan to keep our kids and families safe.” – Problem Solvers Caucus Co-Chair Josh Gottheimer. “Gun violence has touched far too many families, including my own, and it is time that Congress take substantive action to reduce gun deaths in our country. While no one piece of legislation is the panacea, we must continue to work together to pass reasonable measures like those included in this bipartisan package.” – Rep. Salud Carbajal (CA-24) “The proposed measures that are being put forward by the Problem Solver’s Caucus today, I believe are a good starting point in this national conversation, and will ensure that our schools, teachers and our law enforcement partners have the necessary tools to begin addressing some of the systematic problems that currently exist.” – Rep. Mike Coffman (CO-06) “Finding a way to keep our children and communities safe is unquestionably a top priority for Americans across our country. To do so, we must stop fighting over our differences and, instead, work together on policy proposals that will improve school safety and on which we can find agreement. This is how I continue to work towards solutions in the San Joaquin Valley, and this is what we are doing in the Problem Solvers Caucus.” – Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) “While there is no single or easy solution to end gun violence, it is long past time for Congress to take the first steps. It’s what our families deserve and demand,” said Crist. “These common-sense reforms have the support of a majority of Americans — Republicans and Democrats alike. Saving lives and keeping children safe isn’t a partisan issue, it’s about doing what’s right for the people.” – Rep. Charlie Crist (FL-13) “For the first time in decades, there is growing bipartisan consensus for sensible gun policy, a polarizing issue that has deeply divided Republicans and Democrats. This common-sense legislation will ban devices that blatantly circumvent already existing law without restricting Second Amendment rights. I’m grateful for the Problem Solvers Caucus’ support and hope that paired with the activism of Americans across the nation we can build enough momentum to stir even more of my colleagues to join us in supporting policies that could mitigate and prevent similar gun violence tragedies in the future.” – Rep. Carlos Curbelo (FL-26) “As we pray as a nation for all the victims and families devastated by the Parkland school shooting, we must not allow yet another tragedy to go unanswered. It is incumbent upon all of us to identify the root causes of this senseless violence and move to address it immediately. All options must be on the table, including comprehensive background checks, a bump stock ban, prohibiting the sale of military assault weapons and full funding for gun violence research in a comprehensive manner that could have prevented tragedies like this. This Congress can, and must, take meaningful action to put aside partisanship and work toward solutions.” – Rep. Brian Fitzpatrick (PA-08) “Today, the Problem Solvers Caucus is taking an important step in endorsing multiple bills addressing gun violence. I’m proud of the Caucus’ role in building bipartisan support for solutions to the tough issues of the day, because bipartisan ideas have the best chance to make it into law and endure over time.” – Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-03) “We have to collaborate now – Republicans and Democrats – to finally and effectively address the nationwide public health crisis of gun violence. We can’t wait for the political tides to change because by then we will have lost more lives to senseless acts, and that is why I am proud to have worked with the bipartisan Problem Solver Caucus’s on several gun safety bills.” – Rep. Jared Polis (CO-02) “Our children deserve to feel safe and secure in the places where they learn. The commonsense legislation endorsed by the Problem Solvers Caucus represents an important first step in our work to improve student safety and reduce gun violence in our communities, and I’ll be working with my colleagues to build on this bipartisan progress in the days ahead through responsible reform of our gun laws. I’m particularly proud that the bipartisan provision I introduced to help schools install panic buttons in the classroom has earned the support of the Problem Solvers Caucus, and was glad to see the measure included in the omnibus passed by the House and Senate this week.” – Rep. Brad Schneider (IL-10)
03.23.2018	DEARBORN, MI – In celebration of March as National Reading Month, U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and Librarian of Congress Dr. Carla Hayden will visit the Taylor Community Library tomorrow, March 24th to host a special story time and craft making event for children in the community. The story time event is free and open to the public. During the visit, Rep. Dingell and Dr. Hayden will present Taylor Community Library Director Theresa Powers with books from the Library of Congress’ Surplus Books Program to help build the library’s collection. Dr. Hayden is the 14th Librarian of Congress, nominated by President Barack Obama in February 2016. She is the first woman and first African American to lead the national library and has made it a priority to expand educational programming to schools and libraries throughout the country. TOMORROW: Saturday, March 24, 2018 WHAT: Rep. Dingell and Librarian of Congress Dr. Carla Hayden to host story time at Taylor Community Library WHO: Rep. Dingell Dr. Carla Hayden, Librarian of Congress Theresa Powers, Director, Taylor Community Library State Representative Erika Geiss WHEN: 10 a.m. – Story Time WHERE: Taylor Community Library, 12303 Pardee, Taylor, MI
03.22.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement on House passage of the FY2018 Omnibus Appropriations Act. “Over the last six months, we have been asked to vote on five short-term continuing resolutions that simply kicked the can down the road and failed to provide certainty to families and businesses. We received the final text of the Omnibus less than 24 hours before being asked to vote on it today to avoid a government shutdown. We must stop governing by crisis. “Having said that, deciding how to vote on this legislation was ultimately difficult. The omnibus is far from perfect, but it secures funding for critical priorities that keep our nation safe and competitive and our families strong. Particularly important for Michigan are investments in child care, opioid treatment and prevention, medical and scientific research, infrastructure, the environment, veterans’ health care, and many others. “Significantly, the bill also includes full funding for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, which President Trump proposed virtually eliminating. The GLRI is the single most important program for keeping the Great Lakes clean and fighting invasive species, and I will continue working with my colleagues – Democrats and Republicans – to protect it. I’m also pleased that the bill includes a provision to support automated vehicle proving grounds like the American Center for Mobility in Ypsilanti, which provides a safe testing environment for the vehicles of the future.” “While I strongly disagree with the process by which this legislation was brought to the floor, it is ultimately good for Michigan and I support it. I will always consider legislation through this lens and will continue to push for thoughtful, transparent debate on issues that matter to the American people – and long-term budgets that provide needed certainty.”
03.21.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today sent a letter to Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Commissioner Brendan Carr urging him to reconsider a proposed order that would eviscerate critical environmental and transparency protections created by the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA). In the letter, Dingell argued that 5G infrastructure holds great promise for improving lives and connecting our communities, but that landmark environmental protections do not have to be sacrificed in the process. “As a Member of Congress, I am committed to pursuing high-speed, universal broadband access, but I believe it foolish to sacrifice public transparency and thoughtful environmental considerations to do so,” Dingell wrote. “Without much thought, your proposed order weakens NEPA’s transparency framework in the name of efficiency, yet does not include a single enforceable commitment to ensure that broadband providers will actually build more infrastructure. “At its root, NEPA requires the government to consider the environmental impact of its actions and encourage public participation in its decision-making process. Testimony before the House Subcommittee on Communications and Technology reveals that often ‘NEPA gives citizens their only opportunity to voice concerns about a federal project’s impact on their community.’ The Commission’s process leading to this proposed order has not adequately considered the benefits of NEPA and its transparency requirements for infrastructure projects. “For those reasons, I ask for your commitment and urge you to reconsider your proposal.” The full letter can be read here and below. March 21, 2018 The Honorable Brendan Carr Commissioner Federal Communications Commission 445 12th Street SW Washington, DC 20554 Dear Commissioner Carr: This letter is to urge you to reconsider your proposed order that would eviscerate the critical environmental and transparency protections created by the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA). The justification for your proposed order’s attack on NEPA is lacking. I am particularly puzzled by the dearth of serious discussion in the record regarding the impact of gutting NEPA on local communities, businesses, and the environment. In addition, the NEPA process also provides an opportunity for input to improve project design and public acceptance. As a Member of Congress, I am committed to pursuing high-speed, universal broadband access, but I believe it foolish to sacrifice public transparency and thoughtful environmental considerations to do so. Without much thought, your proposed order weakens NEPA’s transparency framework in the name of efficiency, yet does not include a single enforceable commitment to ensure that broadband providers will actually build more infrastructure. Since the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) first voted to open this docket, I have feared that it misunderstands NEPA and its purpose. At its root, NEPA requires the government to consider the environmental impact of its actions and encourage public participation in its decision-making process.[1] Testimony before the House Subcommittee on Communications and Technology reveals that often “NEPA gives citizens their only opportunity to voice concerns about a federal project’s impact on their community.”[2] The Commission’s process leading to this proposed order has not adequately considered the benefits of NEPA and its transparency requirements for infrastructure projects. For example, “the NEPA process has saved money, time, lives, historical sites, endangered species, and public lands while encouraging compromise and resulting in better projects with more public support.”[3] With such little forethought or discussion in the record, it is baffling to me that your proposed order would completely remove from the NEPA process the foundational infrastructure of our nation’s 5G networks.[4] The hundreds of thousands of small wireless facilities[5] excluded by this proposed order will ultimately be deployed on street corners and light poles across the country,[6] collectively comprising a massive nation-wide infrastructure project. Your proposed order, however, misses the forest for the trees. It only discusses the individual, pizza box-sized, small wireless facilities.[7] The FCC’s record provides not even a cursory analysis of the environmental effects of deploying hundreds of thousands of such facilities across the country.[8] Even the White House provides only superficial and political support for your proposal.[9] The letter filed in the record from President Trump’s Council on Environmental Quality lacks any substantive discussion, and in so lacking, only further delegitimizes the record that produced this proposed order.[10] For what little is left of NEPA under your proposed order, I question the wisdom of excluding wireless facilities sited in a flood plain from NEPA if they are sited one foot above the base flood height.[11] I understand the proposed order contemplates using local permitting processes as a backstop to ensure wireless facilities will not adversely impact the floodplain.[12] However, local zoning laws are not an adequate substitute for an open and transparent environmental review afforded by NEPA. I am uneasy with cutting away federal review, given that the Commission may next decide to preempt local authorities’ role in siting wireless infrastructure. For that reason, I ask that if you do move forward with this misguided proposed order that you first commit to opposing any future FCC action that would preempt local siting authority. For those reasons, I ask for your commitment and urge you to reconsider your proposal. I appreciate your assistance with this important matter. I have also enclosed the written testimony of Mr. Scott Slesinger, Legislator Director, Natural Resources Defense Council for inclusion in WT Docket No. 17-76 along with this letter. Should you have any questions regarding this request, please contact Kevin Dollhopf in the Office of Congresswoman Debbie Dingell at (202) 225-4071. Sincerely, Debbie Dingell Member of Congress [1] CRS, Implementing the NEPA for Disaster Response, Recovery, and Mitigation Projects , at 2 (Jan. 13, 2011) (“NEPA is a procedural statute with twin aims that require agencies to consider the environmental impacts of their proposed actions and inform the public that environmental concerns have been accounted for in the decision-making process”). [2] House Committee on Energy and Commerce, Hearing on Closing the Digital Divide: Broadband Infrastructure Solutions, 115th Cong. (Jan. 13, 2018). [3] Id. [4] See note 1 at ¶ 35. [5] Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, Hearing on Rebuilding Infrastructure in America: Investing in Next Generation Broadband, 115th Cong. (Mar. 13, 2018). [6] See note 1 at ¶ 40. [7] See e.g., note 1 at ¶ 63. [8] See id. at ¶ 55-76. [9] Letter from Edward A. Boling, Associate Director for NEPA, Council on Environmental Quality to Thomas M. Johnson Jr., General Counsel, Federal Communications Commission (Mar. 9, 2018). [10] See id. [11] See note 1 at ¶ 132. [12] Id. at ¶ 134.
03.20.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today sent a letter to U.S. Postmaster General and Chief Executive Officer Megan J. Brennan requesting a full schedule of the monthly public forums the Ypsilanti Post Office committed to holding during a February 22nd town hall with Dingell and local residents. The Post Office pledged to hold the regular meetings as part of an effort to resolve the ongoing and significant mail delivery issues in Ypsilanti and Ypsilanti Township. “As you know, our office has received a substantial number of complaints from the community about mail delivery issues and a lack of responsiveness from the Ypsilanti Post Office to these concerns,” Dingell wrote. “In response, we held a town hall meeting on February 22 to continue a dialogue with the community and explore solutions to these problems. During this meeting, the Ypsilanti Post Office staff made a number of commitments to improve their responsiveness and facilitate better customer service. This included holding monthly forums with residents of the City of Ypsilanti and Ypsilanti Township so USPS staff can be regularly available to discuss any ongoing mail problems. “It has been approximately one month since USPS made a commitment to residents of the City of Ypsilanti and Ypsilanti Township to hold regular monthly forums. However, USPS has yet to follow through on their commitment in this regard outside of providing a tentative date at the end of the month for an inaugural meeting. Additionally, USPS staff have been unclear whether these forums will be open to the public at large, and we have received word that USPS will potentially restrict attendance to these events to a preselected community advisory board. “This format goes against the spirit of USPS’s commitment to be more transparent and accountable to the residents of the City of Ypsilanti and Ypsilanti Township, and I am concerned that this decision reflects an ongoing pattern of USPS to avoid accountability for mail delivery issues.” Dingell requested a written response which includes the schedule for regular monthly public forums as well as details on the changes that USPS staff in Ypsilanti will be making to ensure that area residents may swiftly and efficiently report and resolve any mail delivery issues. Dingell has repeatedly pressed the postal service to uphold their commitment to improve mail delivery service in Ypsilanti and Ypsilanti Township and is committed to holding USPS accountable. The letter can be read here and below. March 20, 2018 Ms. Megan J. Brennan Postmaster General and Chief Executive Officer United States Postal Service 475 L’Enfant Plaza S.W. Washington, DC 20260 Dear Ms. Brennan, This letter is to request that the United States Postal Service take prompt action to ensure residents of the City of Ypsilanti and Ypsilanti Township in Michigan have an open line of communication to staff at the Ypsilanti Post Office. As you know, our office has received a substantial number of complaints from the community about mail delivery issues and a lack of responsiveness from the Ypsilanti Post Office to these concerns. In response we held a town hall meeting on February 22 to continue a dialogue with the community and explore solutions to these problems. During this meeting, the Ypsilanti Post Office staff made a number of commitments to improve their responsiveness and facilitate better customer service. This included holding monthly forums with residents of the City of Ypsilanti and Ypsilanti Township so USPS staff can be regularly available to discuss any ongoing mail problems. These meetings are intended to be widely accessible to the public in order to provide the community with ready access to local USPS employees and help restore the community’s trust in USPS to deliver mail and respond to issues in a timely manner. Since this town hall, we have been made aware of several issues with respect to the proposed monthly forum. It has been approximately one month since USPS made a commitment to residents of the City of Ypsilanti and Ypsilanti Township to hold regular monthly forums. However, USPS has yet to follow through on their commitment in this regard outside of providing a tentative date at the end of the month for an inaugural meeting. Additionally, USPS staff have been unclear whether these forums will be open to the public at large, and we have received word that USPS will potentially restrict attendance to these events to a preselected community advisory board. This limitation is not what was agreed to when these monthly forums were proposed to the Ypsilanti community and me. This format goes against the spirit of USPS’s commitment to be more transparent and accountable to the residents of the City of Ypsilanti and Ypsilanti Township, and I am concerned that this decision reflects an ongoing pattern of USPS to avoid accountability for mail delivery issues. Ypsilanti residents deserve to have prompt and efficient mail service, as well as open lines of communication to USPS in order to address any mail delivery issues that arise. Please provide a written response which includes the schedule for regular monthly forums that will be open to anyone who wishes to attend as well as details on the changes that USPS staff in Ypsilanti will be making to ensure that area residents may swiftly and efficiently report and resolve any mail delivery issues. Thank you and I look forward to your prompt response. Sincerely, Debbie Dingell Member of Congress
03.16.2018	DEARBORN, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement on the passing of Congresswoman Louise Slaughter. “Today the Congress lost one of its truest champions for working men and women across this country. Louise Slaughter was a force – she fought tirelessly for the hardworking families in her district with tenacity, grace and humor. Whether it was pushing for fair trade, affordable health care, or access to a quality education for every child, Louise dedicated her life to building a better future for her neighbors in Rochester and Americans across the country. “As a trailblazing woman in Congress and the first woman to chair the powerful House Rules Committee, Louise inspired countless young women to follow her example and worked diligently to open the doors wider for those who came after her. John and I are simply heartbroken by the loss of a wonderful friend and colleague, and our prayers are with Louise’s family and friends during this difficult time. May they find comfort in knowing that Louise’s spirit and her work will carry on through all those whose lives she touched.”
03.16.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representatives Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and Brett Guthrie (KY-02), Members of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, introduced H.R. 5306, the bipartisan Ensuring Medicaid Provides Opportunities for Widespread Equity, Resources (EMPOWER) and Care Act to help seniors and those with disabilities receive long-term services and supports in their homes and communities, while saving taxpayer dollars in the process. The legislation reauthorizes and expands the Money Follows the Person (MFP) Demonstration Program, a highly effective program first authorized in 2005, which provides a way for elderly and disabled patients to move from institutional care to home or community-based services. “Helping seniors and those with disabilities receive the care they need in the setting of their choice is something we can all agree on,” said Congresswoman Dingell. “The Money Follows the Person Program has provided people in Michigan and across the country the opportunity to transition from a nursing home back into their homes and communities, where they can live independently, age with dignity and be with their family and friends. I’m proud to introduce the EMPOWER Care Act with Congressman Guthrie to reauthorize and strengthen this important program and help improve quality of life for all those who need long-term support.” “The Money Follows the Person program is a proven success that has allowed Medicaid patients to take charge of their health care in a commonsense, cost-effective way,” said Congressman Guthrie. “Kentucky’s Money Follows the Person program, Kentucky Transitions, has helped hundreds of Kentuckians transition from health care facilities to receiving long-term care in their homes and communities. I was proud to introduce the EMPOWER Care Act with Congresswoman Debbie Dingell to ensure that people with disabilities receive the best care possible.” At the end of 2015, 43 states and the District of Columbia were participating in the MFP demonstration. As part of an evaluation provided to Congress in a 2017 report, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services concluded there is strong evidence beneficiaries’ quality of life improves when they transition from institutional to community-based long-term care system. The report also found that on average, monthly expenditures for beneficiaries participating in the demonstration program declined by 23 percent during the first year, saving Medicare and Medicaid $978 million. Dingell and Guthrie’s legislation to continue and improve the program is supported by a large coalition of aging and disability organizations. “The Money Follows the Person Program is a crucial tool for states to fulfill the promise of Olmstead and support older adults and people with disabilities in community-based settings. We are thrilled that the House has recognized the value of this program with a bipartisan reauthorization bill, and we encourage Congress to quickly pass this important legislation.” said Martha Roherty, Executive Director of the National Association of States United for Aging and Disabilities. "Time and money is running out for the thousands of people who have been able to leave nursing homes and choose the freedom to return to their own homes, with the support of the Money Follows the Person program," said Joe Caldwell, National Council on Aging Director of Long-term Supports and Services. "We are already losing the progress MFP made, as the 44 participating states shut down their programs for lack of funding. We appreciate bipartisan leadership of Reps. Dingell and Guthrie to extend and improve this common-sense program that improves lives and saves money, because we all agree, there's no place like home." “The Money Follows the Person program has been a vital tool in helping states support people with developmental disabilities to live in the community. Since the program hasn’t been reauthorized, states are dismantling their MFP infrastructure, so we hope Congress will come together quickly to pass this legislation and make sure these valuable efforts can continue without disruption,” said Mary Lee Fay, Executive Director of the National Association of State Directors of Developmental Disabilities Services (NASDDDS). “This bill would extend a program that represents a win/win for states and individuals with disabilities. Individuals regain their independence and life in the community, while state and federal governments save money,” said Nicole Jorwic, Director of Rights Policy for The Arc of the United States. “The Arc is happy to see Congress taking action to support states to advance their efforts to keep individuals with disabilities in their communities where there are proven quality of life outcomes. This is a topic of great importance to the disability community and The Arc is grateful to Representatives Guthrie and Dingell for co-sponsoring this legislation. We are confident that if passed this bill will greatly assist states as they continue to rebalance service systems into the community and move us towards a more inclusive society.” "There is no place like home. The Money Follows the Person Program has provided more than 75,000 individuals with disabilities freedom to return to their own homes and communities,” said Kim Musheno, Chair of the Consortium for Citizens with Disabilities (CCD) the largest national coalition of disability organizations. “We applaud the bipartisan leadership of Representatives Dingell and Guthrie to extend this program.” “Autism Speaks recognizes the critical importance of Medicaid-funded Home and Community Based Services (HCBS) to individuals with autism and their families,” said Angela Geiger, President and CEO Autism Speaks. “Reauthorizing the Money Follows the Person (MFP) program would benefit individuals across the country who are waiting for HCBS. We strongly support the EMPOWER Care Act and urge Congress to pass this important piece of legislation.” "The Money Follows the Person is an essential and successful program that helps individuals move from institutions to community settings," said Dr. Larry Atkins, Executive Director of the National MLTSS Health Plan Association. "As key partners with states and providers, our member health plans can attest to the positive impact this program has had in the lives of the beneficiaries they serve and we commend the bipartisan effort to renew it." For more information on the EMPOWER Care Act, please click here.
03.14.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today delivered the following opening statement at the first meeting of the Joint Select Committee on Solvency of Multiemployer Pensions. “Thank you Mr. Chairman. It’s an honor to be here with you and with Chairman Brown on an issue that is so important. “We do have a monumental task ahead of us. I have lived with these men and women for years who worked a lifetime and contributed money to their pension fund. They’re not asking for a hand out. They invested in their pension, thinking they would have a safe and secure retirement, and suddenly the system is not there for them. “I continue to have grown men cry in my arms because they don’t know how they are going to live – they don’t know how they’re going to eat, what they’re going to give their families. “So we’ve got to roll up our sleeves and get to work. This select committee was created for a reason. It was created because there will be an economic crisis in this country if we do not act on multiemployer pensions by the end of the year. It’s that simple. We’ve got to make difficult decisions, but I know almost everybody on this committee and we’re not afraid of tough work. “John taught me, and his father taught him, that God gave us two ears and one mouth for a reason. We need to listen. But by the end of the year, we have a moral responsibility to the working men and women of this country to figure this out and come up with a solution. And none of us are afraid of tough work. “Thank you Mr. Chairman.” About the Committee The Joint Select Committee is chaired by Senators Sherrod Brown (OH) and Orrin Hatch (UT) and made up of 16 members appointed by House and Senate leaders. The members include eight Senators and eight House members, equally divided between Republicans and Democrats, including U.S. Sens. Mike Crapo (ID), Lamar Alexander (TN), Joe Manchin (WV), Rob Portman (OH), Heidi Heitkamp (ND) and Tina Smith (MN), and U.S. Reps. Richard E. Neal (MA), Bobby Scott (VA), Virginia Foxx (NC), Vern Buchanan (FL), Phil Roe (TN), David Schweikert (AZ), Donald Norcross (NJ) and Debbie Dingell (MI). The Joint Select Committee was created as part of the overall budget compromise that passed in February. The committee has instructions to report a bill by the last week of November, and is required to hold at least five public meetings, including the option of field hearings outside of D.C., so members of Congress can hear directly from retirees, workers and businesses affected by the pension crisis. The solution the committee produces will be guaranteed an expedited vote in the Senate without amendments.
03.13.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Reps. Fred Upton, R-Michigan; John Faso, R-New York; Debbie Dingell, D-Michigan; and Elizabeth Esty, D-Connecticut; today led a bipartisan letter, signed by 28 Members of Congress, to leaders of the House Appropriations Committee pushing for more funding and resources to address mental health issues. “Important reforms in the 21st Century Cures Act made mental health services more affordable, provided new funding authorizations for research programs to develop best practices in mental health treatment that are backed by science, and established new federal grants to increase the number of mental health providers nationwide. In addition, the legislation pushed states to develop early intervention for psychosis and serious mental illness, which is needed for the best hopes of recovery. However, patients and families have yet to benefit from many of these programs due to our government operating on continuing resolutions resulting in the inability to provide funding without completion of the Fiscal Year 2018 appropriation bills,” the lawmakers’ letter reads. “As such, we respectfully request that as you are completing the FY 2018 appropriations package, you include necessary funding to ensure the that the programs established in the 21st Century Cures Act achieve the success that was intended by Congress….As our nation faces many challenges, we remain committed to ensuring better identification, treatment and care for those facing mental health issues,” the letter concludes. The full text of the letter can be found below or online here. With the enactment of the 21st Century Cures Act in December of 2016, the first major reform to our mental health care system in decades was achieved. Bipartisan efforts led to multiple provisions that will improve mental health care for millions of Americans and help ensure earlier intervention and better treatment options for individuals and families that need help. Important reforms in the 21st Century Cures Act made mental health services more affordable, provided new funding authorizations for research programs to develop best practices in mental health treatment that are backed by science, and established new federal grants to increase the number of mental health providers nationwide. In addition, the legislation pushed states to develop early intervention for psychosis and serious mental illness, which is needed for the best hopes of recovery. However, patients and families have yet to benefit from many of these programs due to our government operating on continuing resolutions resulting in the inability to provide funding without completion of the Fiscal Year 2018 appropriation bills. To date, many of these programs have yet to receive any funding. As such, we respectfully request that as you are completing the FY 2018 appropriations package, you include necessary funding to ensure the that the programs established in the 21st Century Cures Act achieve the success that was intended by Congress. These programs can be found in the attached Congressional Research Service report. As our nation faces many challenges, we remain committed to ensuring better identification, treatment and care for those facing mental health issues. Thank you for your help and support in this endeavor.
03.09.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement on President Trump’s tariff announcement. “For too long, unfair trade practices have shuttered steel plants in Michigan and across the country and cost hardworking families the opportunity to earn a decent living. The abandoned McLouth Steel facility that sits empty and dilapidated along the Detroit River in my district is just one reminder of what unfair steel practices have done to this country. ”I have said from the beginning that I would work with President Trump on trade because it is critical that we level the playing field for working men and women, and I commend the Administration’s action to crack down on steel dumping by China and other countries. We must address steel overcapacity while monitoring the implementation of these policies closely to ensure there are not unintended consequences that cost jobs instead of protecting and creating them. “While this is a first step to level the playing field, it cannot be the only. The President must keep his promises to address currency manipulation, the mother of all trade barriers, and renegotiate NAFTA in a way that puts working families first. I am committed to working with the Administration, my colleagues in Congress and all stakeholders to ensure that our trade policies, first and foremost, grow American manufacturing and create jobs at home.”
03.08.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Although great strides have been made in advancing protections against sexual violence on college campuses, students with disabilities still suffer a disproportionate number of violent sexual crimes. A recent report from the National Council on Disability, “Not on the Radar: Sexual Assault of College Students with Disabilities,” found that the needs of these students are often not addressed under existing policies. To address this gap and build upon the work of the landmark Jeanne Clery Act and the Americans with Disabilities Act, U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12), alongside U.S. Senator Bob Casey (PA) and U.S. Senator Maggie Hassan (NH), introduced the Safe Equitable Campus Resources and Education (SECuRE) Act. “Every student deserves to learn and study in an environment that is safe and free from harassment and assault,” said Congresswoman Dingell. “Despite suffering from sexual violence at nearly double the rate of their peers, it is clear that students with disabilities are slipping through the cracks when it comes to campus efforts to prevent and respond to sexual assault. This must change. The SECuRE Act ensures the needs of students with disabilities are taken into account in campus planning and response efforts, and that resources provided to the campus community are accessible to everyone. This is a critical step in our effort to combat campus sexual assault and ensure all survivors have a place to turn.” “While my Campus SaVE legislation helped improve reporting and access to support services for survivors of sexual assault, domestic violence, dating violence and stalking, more can and must be done for students with disabilities,” said Senator Casey. “This legislation will help ensure that all students, regardless of whether or not they have a disability, have access to the resources they need to feel safe at school. It’s past time we step up for them and I urge my colleagues to support the SECuRE Act.” “All students have the right to be safe and to not fear that they will be sexually assaulted, yet sexual harassment and violence continue to occur at alarmingly high rates on college campuses across the country,” Senator Hassan said. “While there has been some increased awareness and progress in addressing sexual assault on campuses, students who experience disabilities – who face higher rates of sexual violence than students without disabilities – are often ignored or relegated to second-class status when it comes to combating sexual assault. I am introducing this legislation with Senator Casey to ensure that all students impacted by sexual violence have access to the resources and supports they need when these unconscionable incidents occur." Specifically, the SECuRE Act would: Require institutions to report how many of the sex offenses, domestic violence, dating violence and stalking incidents reported involved a victim who was an individual with a disability. Ensure that campus policies for emergency response and evacuation take into account the needs of individuals with disabilities. Require that all reports, materials and information required under the Clery Act be made available in accessible formats and in a timely manner. Expand the risk reduction component of prevention and awareness programs to include abusive behavior and attacks targeting individuals with disabilities. Require an assurance that campus security personnel and individuals responsible for providing the required information under the Clery Act are trained to work with individuals with disabilities. Require institutional disciplinary proceedings to be conducted by officials who receive training on how to work with individuals with disabilities, and that the proceedings themselves be accessible to individuals with disabilities. Permit an individual with a disability who is the accuser or the accused individual to be accompanied to any meeting or proceeding by an interpreter or other individual providing communication assistance services, in addition to his or her advisor of choice. Require the written notice of the outcome of a disciplinary proceeding be provided in an accessible format if required. Require campus policies to include information about the accommodations available to individuals with disabilities with respect to the programs and procedures outlined in the Clery Act. The SECuRE Act has been endorsed by: Advocates Building Lasting Equality in New Hampshire (ABLE NH) American Association of People with Disabilities (AAPD) The Arc of Pennsylvania The Arc of the United States Association of University Centers on Disabilities (AUCD) Autism Society of America Autistic Self Advocacy Network (ASAN) Brain Injury Association of America (BIAA) Christopher & Dana Reeve Foundation Clery Center Coalition of Parent and Attorney Advocates (COPAA) Family Voices Little Lobbyists National Association of Councils on Developmental Disabilities (NACDD) National Association of State Directors of Special Education National Council on Independent Living (NCIL) National Disability Rights Network National Down Syndrome Congress (NDSC) Safety Advisors for Educational Campuses, LLC (SAFE Campuses, LLC) The SECuRE Act is also recommended and supported by the National Council on Disability, a federal advisory body.
03.07.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representatives Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) issued the following statements today after the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) announced an action plan to combat harmful algal blooms in Lake Erie. Dingell and Kaptur have repeatedly urged EPA to take steps to manage excessive phosphorous, the root cause of toxic algal blooms, to protect human health and the environment. “It is critical that EPA take action to protect the drinking water that 11 million people in Michigan and throughout the Great Lakes region rely upon,” said Dingell. “We have urged EPA to be more aggressive in combatting Lake Erie’s toxic algal blooms, and this action plan is a step in the right direction. However, we continue to believe that full remediation of Lake Erie requires an impairment designation by EPA. We will continue working with state and federal stakeholders to ensure communities have the resources needed to clean up these waters and protect the health of residents throughout the region.” "Though we welcome support from U.S. EPA to combat harmful algal blooms, this plan does not reflect the urgency or accountability we need in this fight," said Kaptur. "This first step must be followed by actions on the state and federal level to meet the plan’s reduction targets. Congress has provided one important tool for achieving these goals by funding the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative. Even still, the Trump Administration plans to cut GLRI funding by 90 percent. We cannot settle for the U.S. EPA having its budget slashed and hands tied leaving the Great Lakes and the millions of Americans who rely on them for water and commerce in the lurch.” In November 2016, Dingell and Kaptur sent a letter to U.S. EPA urging them to list the waters of Lake Erie as officially impaired. Last May, EPA accepted both Ohio’s and Michigan’s assessments even though Michigan had designated the open waters of Lake Erie as impaired, while Ohio had refused to do so. The Representatives reiterated their call for EPA to disregard Ohio’s determination. U.S. EPA now considers the Ohio assessment to be “incomplete.” Read the full letter here. Today’s plan from EPA outlines federal and state efforts to achieve the binational phosphorus reduction targets adopted by the United States and Canada in 2016 under the Great Lakes Water Quality Agreement. Under the agreement, the U.S. committed to reduce phosphorus nutrient sources by 40 percent. The U.S. Action Plan can be accessed here.
02.28.2018	U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell convened a town hall meeting on Thursday, February 22nd with representatives of the U.S. Postal Service (USPS) to address serious concerns with mail delivery service in the broader Ypsilanti/Ypsilanti Township community. Hundreds of community members attended the meeting to share stories of long delays in pickup and delivery, periods where no mail is delivered for days at a time, instances where mail is never received or delivered, and unresponsive and unreachable customer service, among other complaints. Congresswoman Dingell is committed to working with the Post Office to ensure these issues are resolved and that the Ypsilanti/Ypsilanti Township community has quality mail service. In order to facilitate the handling of complaints, the following contacts are critical: To file a complaint, report a mail issue, or discuss a problem, the first point of contact should be the Huron Street Post Office at 734-482-3046 or via email at 48197YpsilantiMI@usps.gov. If your complaint is not handled in a timely manner, Stephanie Brantley, USPS Post Office Operations Manager, can be reached at 313-234-7002. The third point of contact is USPS Detroit District Manager Lee Thompson, who is also committed to ensuring that these issues are addressed. She may be reached at 313-226-8607. Constituents who continue to experience problems may always reach out to the Congresswoman’s office at 313-278-2936 or email Katie Jesaitis at Katie.Jesaitis@mail.house.gov. Post Office Locations: 1606 S Huron St. Ypsilanti, MI 48197 108 S Adams St. Ypsilanti, MI 48197 11014 Whittaker Rd. Whittaker, MI 48190 Members of the community should also be aware of a service offered by the U.S. Postal Service called Informed Delivery, which allows customers to digitally preview mail and packages scheduled to arrive at their home. More information is available here. Additionally, at the town hall meeting, all of the Post Office management present committed to ensuring there are open lines of communication between the Post Office and the public. To improve communications, Ypsilanti Postmaster Alicia Brown will hold regular community meetings at the Adams Street Post Office, located at 108 S. Adams Street in Ypsilanti. The first of these meetings will be held in March, and will be announced by the Post Office in the coming weeks. When Dingell’s office receives notification, she and other local officials will also post the information on their websites to keep the community informed.
02.28.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and Rep. Fred Upton (MI-06) today announced they have been named Co-Chairs of the bipartisan Working Group on Response to Parkland Shooting. The working group exists as part of the bipartisan Problem Solvers Caucus, of which they are both members. “We all have a responsibility to ensure our students feel safe at school,” said Dingell. “Following the horrific shooting in Parkland and the wave of gun violence across this country, we cannot afford to go to our corners and have the same politically-charged conversation that gets us nowhere. Congressman Upton and I have been meeting in our communities with law enforcement, prosecutors, mental health experts, the ACLU, students, teachers, parents, and other stakeholders to find real solutions to the gun violence epidemic. We will continue this productive, inclusive approach as co-chairs of this new working group so we can turns ideas into action that keep our children safe.” “We all share in the heartbreak from the senseless tragedy in Florida,” said Upton. “Congresswoman Dingell and I are committed to finding common-ground in this heated debate. We both have been meeting directly with our local law enforcement officials, parents, teachers, students, gun owners, and other folks to discuss common-sense, bipartisan solutions. As co-chairs of this new working group we will spend the coming days and weeks continuing our productive work. We owe it to our constituents to try.” The Problem Solvers Caucus is a bipartisan group in Congress comprised of 48 members – equally divided between Republicans and Democrats – who are committed to forging bipartisan cooperation on key issues. They are led by co-chairs U.S. Rep. Tom Reed (NY-23) and U.S. Rep. Josh Gottheimer (NJ-05).
02.23.2018	DEARBORN, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today convened leaders from Michigan’s sportsmen’s community and wildlife conservation groups and officials from the Michigan Department of Natural Resources at the Detroit Zoo to highlight the need for improved species conservation and call on Congress to pass the Recovering America’s Wildlife Act (RAWA). Dingell and Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (NE-01) introduced the bipartisan legislation, which received overwhelming support in the House Natural Resources Committee last week, to conserve at-risk species in every state. “In Michigan, our state’s fish and wildlife are some of our most valuable resources – supporting jobs, the recreation economy, and our outdoor heritage,” said Dingell. “At a time when one-third of all wildlife species in the United States are at risk of extinction, including species native to Michigan like the Kirtland’s warbler, monarch butterfly and lake trout, we all need to work together to proactively protect wildlife and habitat. The Recovering America’s Wildlife Act takes a proven approach to conserve at-risk species before they land on the endangered species list, where recovery is ultimately more costly and restrictive. We are glad to have support from a broad coalition of sportsmen and conservation groups in Michigan and nationwide working to pass this important bill and will continue working together to move it across the finish line.” The group toured the Detroit Zoo’s bald eagle habitat, a conservation success story, and participated in a roundtable discussion on Michigan’s latest Wildlife Action Plan and how the Recovering America’s Wildlife Act would help species recovery in Michigan. "The RAWA is really important to conservation in Michigan for a couple reasons,” said Amy Derosier, wildlife lead on Michigan’s Wildlife Action Plan at the Michigan Department of Natural Resources. “We need to keep species off the endangered species list, and this funding allows us to do proactive conservation that benefits rare species and species that are hunted. Also the fact that part of the funding goes to outreach and recreational development is important to help connect Michiganders with nature" “Recovering America’s Wildlife Act is the top priority of the National Wildlife Federation,” said Mike Shriberg, executive director of NWF’s Great Lakes Regional Center. “Passing this bill would be the key step in reversing the decline of America’s wildlife.” “Michigan's hunting community is in full support of the Recovering America's Wildlife Act,” said Daniel Eichinger, executive director of Michigan United Conservation Clubs. “Passing this federal legislation will greatly extend the purchasing power of sportsmen generated conservation funds and it will set in motion our Wildlife Action Plans which are designed to keep species off the list of endangered species, preventing disruptive and expensive management actions." Dingell was also joined by Randi Meyerson, deputy chief of the Life Sciences/Detroit Zoological Society; Dr. Paul Buzzard, field conservation officer at the Detroit Zoological Society; Tom Schneider, curator of birds at the Detroit Zoological Society; Dan Kennedy, endangered species coordinator at the Michigan Department of Natural Resources; and Brent Rudolph, director of conservation policy at the Ruffed Grouse Society. The Recovering America’s Wildlife Act builds off the successes of landmark conservation programs including Pittman-Robertson, Dingell-Johnson and the Land and Water Conservation Fund by providing states the additional resources they need to proactively manage at-risk wildlife species. It would dedicate $1.3 billion annually in existing revenue from oil and gas royalties to the Wildlife Conservation Restoration Program to provide states with new critically needed financial resources to effectively implement State Wildlife Action Plans to conserve 12,000 species in greatest need of conservation while providing the public with more access to open spaces. Without a change in the way we finance fish and wildlife conservation, the list of federally threatened and endangered species is expected to grow from nearly 1,600 species today to thousands more in the future. The new dedicated funding created by the Recovering America’s Wildlife Act is aimed at preventing wildlife from becoming endangered to ensure the long-term health of all fish and wildlife that provide countless hours of outdoor enjoyment for the nation’s citizens.
02.23.2018	DEARBORN, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today was appointed to the newly-created Joint Select Committee on Solvency and Multiemployer Pensions by House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi. The Joint Select Committee will provide recommendations and legislative language to significantly improve the solvency of multiemployer pension plans and the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, which has been a priority for Democrats in the budget negotiations. “Millions of workers in Michigan and across the country stand to see massive cuts to their pensions if Congress does not act,” said Dingell. “I want to thank Leader Pelosi for this appointment and for her leadership on this critical issue. The men and women I represent worked a lifetime to retire with dignity and security and they cannot afford to have the rug pulled out from under them. This has been one of my top priorities since coming to Congress, and I’m glad to be part of the effort to find real solutions to put failing pension plans back on solid ground and protect the retirement workers have earned. Let’s roll up our sleeves and get to work.” “Defending every American’s right to a secure retirement is an urgent moral priority,” said Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi. “Congresswoman Dingell’s leadership will be invaluable in honoring our promises to working Americans and preserving families’ economic well-being.” Dingell has been fighting against proposed cuts to retiree pensions since coming to Congress. In 2016, she led a bipartisan coalition of 89 House colleagues in sending a letter to the U.S. Treasury Department urging the rejection of an application by the Central States Pension Fund to cut pensions by as much as 70 percent. Since the application was rejected, Dingell and her colleagues have been working with all stakeholders to find a solution that will shore up multiemployer pension plans without placing an undue burden on workers and retirees.
02.22.2018	DEARBORN, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement after U.S. Postal Service (USPS) officials informed her they would no longer attend tonight’s town hall to discuss ongoing mail delivery issues in Ypsilanti. “Late last night, we were informed by leadership of the U.S. Postal Service that they would not be participating in tonight’s town hall in Ypsilanti. This town hall meeting was planned in conjunction with USPS step by step in response to hundreds of complaints my office has received over several years from this community about poor mail service. Last night, USPS claimed that the Hatch Act, which ensures civil servants do not engage in political activity while on the job, prevented them from participating in this meeting. It is upsetting that the first time my office heard of this concern was the day before the event and not in the weeks before when we were planning it together. “USPS is accountable to the U.S. Congress and the American people. This town hall, which they agreed to weeks ago, was being held in my official capacity as a member of Congress to address the huge number of complaints we have received over the course of the last year. Complaints include mail not being delivered on time, mail being delivered to the wrong address, long lines at the post office, late delivery of bills, medicine sitting in trucks, and dozens of other issues that my office has documented in letters to the Postmaster General. “Since the problems with mail service are so serious and severe and because the people of Ypsilanti are desperate for answers from the Post Office, I have made the offer not to attend tonight’s meeting so the Post Office could still attend. Local officials will still be there to answer questions from the community. If the Post Office’s concern is that my presence could violate the Hatch Act, which I strongly disagree with and contest, then they should have no objection to attending the meeting tonight without me. We will see what their response is, and tonight’s meeting is still on. “The implications of the decision by the USPS not to attend the town hall sets a dangerous precedent of unaccountability to the Congress. Congress has a Constitutional responsibility to oversee all Executive Branch agencies, including the USPS, and ensuring constituents get answers from federal agencies is an essential part of our job. If they do not attend tonight, we will document every single case of poor service delays, lost mail, long lines, and late delivery and hand deliver them directly to the Postmaster General and continue to release the complaints to the media. We will continue to pursue all options to hold them accountable and ensure service is remedied. “It is critical that Ypsilanti residents get the answers they deserve from USPS. I hope that they show up tonight and have the courage to face tough questions about their recent performance.”
02.21.2018	DEARBORN, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) in conjunction with the SAFE Substance Abuse Coalition, State Representative Abdullah Hammoud and Dearborn Police, held a community forum yesterday evening in Dearborn to address the concerns of parents and families regarding the current wave of violence in schools across the country. In addition to educating the community about emergency procedures in place in Dearborn Public Schools to ensure student safety, the forum aimed to build coalitions within the community to make positive change and advance legislative solutions to keep our schools and communities safe. Rep. Dingell said: “Words are not enough. We have a responsibility to protect our young people, and rather than retreating to our corners, we must have an honest, productive conversation about the gun violence epidemic and commonsense solutions. We thank the SAFE Coalition for bringing us together – local elected officials, the police chief, representatives of mental health and suicide prevention groups, and members of the community – to talk about what we can do together to improve gun safety and keep our children and families safe. I look forward to taking these ideas back to Washington so we can take meaningful, bipartisan action to address gun violence and save American lives.” Hassan F. Abdallah, Executive Director of SAFE Substance Abuse Coalition, said: “This forum was put together in response and in service to the 100+ emails and calls SAFE received in response to the tragic domestic terror attack that occurred in Parkland, Florida. Our aim was to address the concerns of parents and families regarding the current wave of violence in schools across America and get a better understanding of the practices and procedures used in the Dearborn Public Schools to ensure student safety and address emergency situations. “I pride myself and hold my organization to the highest standard of public service and we wanted to make sure that the questions and concerns of community members and particularly the parents were heard and more importantly - ANSWERED. The safety of our families and children in our school systems is at the core of SAFE’s mission - children shouldn’t have to choose between attending school and being shot at. We’re lucky in Dearborn to have leaders like O’Reilly, Hammoud, Dingell, Haddad and Maleyko who are unwavering in their commitment to student safety.” State Rep. Hammoud said: "Tragedy after tragedy, those in charge have failed to act. Like so many other residents, I am angry and frustrated. My hope is with the young people of Florida and across our nation that are demonstrating their resilience and influence. They have made it clear that they will be a crucial voice in determining the outcome of gun reforms and I encourage us all to support those efforts." Dearborn Police Chief Ronald Haddad said: “There is no greater cause in America than protecting our children in a safe school environment. I am hopeful and encouraged that we can establish many of the commonsense reforms that have been recommended for school safety and gun reform that 90% of Americans support. I will continue to work with Congresswoman Debbie Dingell and other leaders to develop measures that best serve the nation.” The forum discussed a number of legislative solutions to the gun violence epidemic, including the bipartisan King-Thompson bill to strengthen the background check system to include all commercial firearm sales, including those at gun shows, over the internet or in classified ads while providing reasonable exceptions for family and friend transfers. The panel also explored ideas like establishing a 1-800 number to report individuals who pose a danger and expanding Red Flag Laws, which would allow family members or law enforcement to seek a court order temporarily restricting a person’s access to guns when they pose a threat to themselves or others.
02.20.2018	DEARBORN, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today pressed U.S. Postal Service (USPS) Postmaster General and Chief Executive Officer Megan J. Brennan on continued issues with mail delivery in Ypsilanti. Dingell wrote to Ms. Brennan in January detailing recurring problems reported by constituents and city leaders, including long delays in pickup and delivery, periods where no mail is delivered for days at a time, and unresponsive and unreachable customer service. Despite written assurances from USPS that the problems are being addressed, Dingell has received more than 100 complaints from residents since her last letter detailing continued mail delays and other issues. “This letter is to once again address the significant issues with mail delivery service in Ypsilanti, Michigan and to request that the U.S. Postal Service take prompt action to rectify the problems that the community is having in this regard,” Dingell wrote. “This is the third time that I have had to reach out to USPS on behalf of the Ypsilanti residents since 2016 and the second time this calendar year. Residents of Ypsilanti deserve to have timely and consistent mail service, and the magnitude and duration of these mail problems is unacceptable. Please provide me an updated assessment of the problems the Ypsilanti Post Office is facing as well as steps taken to address these delivery issues.” Dingell requested detailed answers to questions raised about the operation of the Ypsilanti Post Office, including staffing issues and the management of the mail delivery workload. She also requested a meeting with senior USPS staff in Washington, D.C. and a follow up meeting with regional USPS personnel in Michigan. The full letter is available here and below. February 20, 2018 Ms. Megan J. Brennan Postmaster General and Chief Executive Officer United States Postal Service 475 L’Enfant Plaza S.W. Washington, DC 20260 Dear Ms. Brennan, This letter is to once again address the significant issues with mail delivery service in Ypsilanti, Michigan and to request that the U.S. Postal Service take prompt action to rectify the problems that the community is having in this regard. This is the third time that I have had to reach out to USPS on behalf of the Ypsilanti residents since 2016 and the second time this calendar year. In spite of written assurances that my office has received from USPS that the problems are being addressed and corrective action has been taken to fix mail delivery issues, the Ypsilanti community continues to experience a substantial volume of mail delays and problems. Service issues that my office has been notified of in the past week include: - Mail is often being delivered after 8PM. - Mail is not being delivered for days at a time. A large bundle of older mail is then delivered after several days. - Mail continues to be consistently delivered to the wrong homes - so often that neighborhoods have taken to organizing street wide communication to sort on their own. - Package deliveries are late, delivered to incorrect addresses, or arrive damaged at their destination. - Customer service remains an issue with the Ypsilanti Post Office, with long lines and a lack of responsiveness to customer complaints. - Individuals have reported management issues with the Ypsilanti Post Office and fear retaliation for raising concerns about service issues. The high volume and persistence of mail delivery problems in Ypsilanti is having a substantial impact on the community’s ability to send and receive mail in a timely manner, and these issues have been raised to me by a number of constituents and city leaders. In discussing these issues with my constituents, a number of concerns have been raised about the operation of the Ypsilanti Post Office, including staffing issues and the management of the mail delivery workload. Given that these issues have seemingly gone unaddressed, please provide answers to the following questions: - Has management at the Ypsilanti Post Office or District Level received any inquiries or complaints about the mail carriers’ workload being unreasonable? If so, what is the frequency of these complaints and how are they handled? - Does the Ypsilanti Post Office have sufficient personnel to provide timely service to the community? How is staffing determined? Please provide details about the number of vacant positions at the Ypsilanti Post Office, as well as the turnover rate of employees. - When was the last time that the feasibility of the Ypsilanti Post Office routes were evaluated? Have these been updated to account for the increased volume of packages that USPS is processing? - How has the increase in package volume from Amazon affected the Ypsilanti Post Office’s ability to meet service delivery standards? Were additional staff added to account for this increased workload? - Do all established mail routes have permanent carriers assigned that are available and able to deliver the mail? What is the protocol when a permanent carrier is unavailable or on leave due to an unscheduled absence? - If the office has an adequate amount of personnel, why is the mail delivery inconsistent, with different delivery times and mail carriers throughout the week? What steps are you taking to address these systemic issues? - Our office does not receive the same volume of complaints from nearby communities about mail issues. What makes Ypsilanti’s mail delivery assignments different from those in surrounding cities? What volume of mail does the Ypsilanti Post Office handle, and how does this workload compare with similar postal units? - A commitment was made by the Ypsilanti Postal Service to the citizens of the Ypsilanti community that the facilities’ phones would be answered and staff would be accessible to handle any mail issues that may arise. However, my office has continued to receive reports of issues reaching USPS staff. What additional steps will you take to address this issue? Residents of Ypsilanti deserve to have timely and consistent mail service, and the magnitude and duration of these mail problems is unacceptable. Please provide to me an updated assessment of the problems the Ypsilanti Post office is facing as well as steps taken to address these delivery issues. Additionally, I am requesting a meeting in the coming weeks with senior USPS staff in my Washington, DC office, as well as a follow-up meeting with regional USPS personnel in Michigan to discuss the issues that my constituents continue to face and a plan of action to rectify these long-term mail delivery problems. Thank you for your attention to this issue and I look forward to receiving your prompt response. Sincerely, Debbie Dingell Member of Congress
02.15.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representatives Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and Fred Upton (MI-06) today introduced legislation to address the opioid epidemic by spurring urgently needed research on new non-addictive pain medications. Twenty-five million Americans suffer from pain every day, and it is essential that non-addictive medications are available to them. H.R. 5002, the Advancing Cutting-Edge (ACE) Research Act provides the National Institutes of Health (NIH) with new, flexible authorities to conduct innovative research on ways to prevent, treat and cure diseases, including vital research to respond to public health threats like the opioid epidemic. “The opioid epidemic is ravaging families in Michigan and across this country,” said Dingell. “It is critical that we come together – Democrats and Republicans – to stem this public health crisis while ensuring that those with very real medical needs continue to have access to necessary medication. This legislation does exactly that by expanding NIH authority to innovate and partner with new entities conducting cutting-edge medical research. By developing new non-addictive painkillers and pursuing other scientific advances, we can help prevent addiction from taking hold of families in the first place, combat this epidemic and save lives.” “Opioid abuse and addiction is tearing through families and communities here in Michigan and across the entire country,” said Upton. “We’ve taken concrete steps to address this heartbreaking epidemic with solutions such as the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act and the 21st Century Cures Act but clearly more work remains. This bipartisan bill will help those in need by giving the National Institutes of Health more tools and flexibility to support research on new, non-addictive painkiller alternatives and other scientific advances that will help respond to the crisis. Opioid abuse and addiction doesn’t cherry-pick Republicans or Democrats. It touches us all. It’s going to take a full-team effort, and working across party lines, to finally solve this.” Developing new non-addictive pain medications is essential to combating the opioid epidemic. During Congressional hearings Dr. Francis Collins, Director of the NIH, requested the agency be given more flexibility, known as other transaction authority (OTA), so the agency could better partner with innovative companies doing research to address the opioid epidemic and other public health threats. Under the ACE Research Act, the NIH Director will be able to more quickly support research on new, non-addictive pain killers and other emerging technologies that can offer hope to those suffering from an opioid addiction. Senators Lamar Alexander (TN) and Patty Murray (WA), the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions, have introduced companion legislation in the U.S. Senate (S. 2406). According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), overdose deaths involving prescription opioids were five times higher in 2016 than 1999. From 1999 to 2016, more than 200,000 people have died in the U.S. from overdoses related to prescription opioids.
02.12.2018	DEARBORN, MI - U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement on President Trump’s FY 2019 Budget proposal and infrastructure plan. “A budget is a statement of values, and I strongly believe the first priority of our nation’s budget should be investing in its people – in our children, families and seniors – and in the programs that keep our nation competitive and our communities strong. “The budget President Trump released today takes us in the wrong direction. It continues the Administration’s assault on the health care Americans depend upon – calling for hundreds of billions of dollars in cuts to Medicare and Medicaid, which the President promised not to touch. It hollows out funding for student loans, which allow our young people to obtain a college education, and most devastating for Michigan, it nearly eliminates funding for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative. This is the single most important program for keeping the Great Lakes clean and fighting invasive species like Asian carp. This is unacceptable. We came together last year – Democrats and Republicans – to restore funding for this vital program and we will do so again. The President doesn’t have the final say in budget matters, Congress does, and I will be working with my colleagues to invest in the programs the American people care about. “While it is good to see the President finally put forward a long-promised plan on infrastructure, this proposal falls far short of the resources needed to make real improvements to our crumbling roads and bridges, modernize our broadband and energy infrastructure, and update our drinking water systems and high-speed rail. It raises tolls on families, and shifts funding responsibilities to cash-strapped state and local governments. We need a plan that includes real and significant investments to modernize our infrastructure – one that fixes potholes, instead of running roughshod over environmental protections – and I am committed to working with my colleagues in Congress to make sure that happens in a bipartisan manner.”
02.08.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today introduced the Rehab and Ahmed Amer Foster Care Improvement Act of 2018, legislation that requires state foster care programs to ensure children are prioritized for placement with their relatives and puts additional requirements in place for a fairer decision-making process when an agency places a child. “The top priority of any foster care placement must be the child’s wellbeing and safety,” said Dingell. “This bill would help keep families together when it is appropriate and ensure children are placed into a safe and nurturing environment with relatives they know and love whenever possible. Michigan came together to pass this law after the Amer family lost their children to the state’s foster care system, leaving the family divided and heartbroken. Now is the time to make these same foster care improvements nationwide for the welfare and security of all children.” The Rehab and Ahmed Amer Foster Care Improvement Act of 2018 would require that a state provides notice of decision to the child’s parents, relatives, or other legal guardian within 90 days of a placement decision. Additionally, the legislation would require states to establish procedures that would allow any of the parties who receive notice of the placement decision to request, within five days after receipt of the notice, documentation of the reasons for the state's decision. It would also allow the child's attorney to petition the court to review the decision and require that the court commence a review within seven days after receipt of the petition. In 1985, Rehab and Ahmed Amer lost two of their children to Michigan's foster care system after the accidental death of their son. Although cleared of any wrongdoing, the State refused to return the Amers' children to their custody or allow a relative to care for the children. When Rehab’s brother petitioned to be a foster parent to the Amers’ children he was denied even though he had previously served as a foster parent for other children. Since then the Amer family has advocated tirelessly for improving foster care policies for all children.
02.07.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today introduced legislation mandating that all cosmetics marketed to children are demonstrated to be free of asbestos or otherwise carry a warning label. Dingell introduced the Children’s Product Warning Label Act of 2018 after accessories retailer Claire’s pulled 17 products from their shelves in December after asbestos was found in cosmetics marketed to children. Even small levels of asbestos can cause diseases like lung cancer and mesothelioma many years after exposure. “Parents across the country should have the peace of mind in knowing that the cosmetics they buy for their children are safe. Yet we were all stunned when the retailer Claire’s pulled 17 products from their shelves after asbestos was found in cosmetics marketed to children, including glitter and eye shadow,” said Dingell. “No child should be exposed to asbestos through the use of common, everyday products. That is why I introduced the Children’s Product Warning Label Act of 2018, which would require all cosmetics marketed to children to contain a warning label that the product may contain asbestos unless the manufacturer can prove otherwise to the FDA. “A broad overhaul of FDA’s authority over cosmetics and personal care products is long overdue and is the best way to address this problem. We need to pass comprehensive legislation to create a user fee program for cosmetics and give the FDA the authority to review the most dangerous ingredients so they can keep people safe. But if Congress is unwilling to consider this approach, we should start taking common sense steps to protect our children by passing my legislation to ensure consumers have all the facts about the products they purchase. Congress must make this a priority in 2018.” The Children’s Product Warning Label Act requires all cosmetics marketed to children to contain a warning label that the product has not been evaluated for asbestos contamination unless the manufacturer of the product attests in writing to the Secretary that the source is an asbestos free-mine, and that they demonstrate to FDA that the product is asbestos-free using the transmission electron microscopy method.
02.06.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement after voting against legislation that fails to provide long-term funding for the government. “Today, the Congress voted on the fifth short-term continuing resolution since September, leaving the country hurtling toward yet another budget crisis in a few weeks and putting our military readiness and national security at risk. The American people deserve a long-term budget that provides certainty to our military and addresses critical priorities, including the opioid epidemic, the pension crisis, disaster relief and our broken immigration system. “We cannot keep kicking the can down the road. The most basic responsibility of the Congress is to provide long-term funding for the government, and it’s time for the Republicans who control the House and Senate to work with Democrats to get the job done.”
02.06.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today released the following statement on the passing of former U.S. Congressman Joe Knollenberg. “John and I are deeply saddened by the passing of Congressman Joe Knollenberg, who was a friend and true champion for the state of Michigan. He committed his life to serving our country in the military and in Congress, and worked across the aisle to better the state he loved. Joe’s years of advocacy and public service changed Michigan for the better, and he will be greatly missed. My thoughts and prayers are with his wife Sandie and his family during this difficult time.”
02.06.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today released the following statement on House passage of the bipartisan Congressional Accountability Reform Act, which overhauls Congress’ system for preventing and responding to workplace harassment. “Today, the Congress took an important first step – Democrats and Republicans together – to reform the Congressional Accountability Act to support survivors, promote transparency and hold Members personally accountable so taxpayer dollars are never used to cover up bad behavior. We must continue working together to make this movement real for every person – the waitress, the factory floor worker, the teacher, the hotel worker, the lawyer trying to make partner and many more. Consequences remain for too many to speak up and speak out. Every worker deserves to have equal opportunity and be treated with decency and respect, and we will not stop until we reach that goal.”
02.02.2018	LINCOLN PARK, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and State Representative Cara Clemente today joined Lincoln Park Middle School and the Downriver Chapter of Families Against Narcotics for assemblies on youth opioid education and prevention. The Representatives were joined by 600 7th and 8th grade students for the events, which brought together educators, substance abuse counselors, state and local leaders, and young people in recovery. The assemblies also encouraged young people to join a new student organization, Students Together Against Narcotics and Drugs (STAND). “Today was about talking candidly to students so they understand that they are not too young to be hurt by this awful epidemic and the devastation it can cause,” said Dingell. “My sister became a drug addict at their age. Our goal today was to educate students about the realities of addiction so they can make informed decisions and to encourage them to join a club that supports each other. It’s important they know that when they are down, depressed or being bullied that there are places to turn besides drugs. We have got to all work together as a community address this awful epidemic, which has stolen the lives of too many young people across this country.” “I appreciate Lincoln Park Middle School and Judge Gregory Clifton for allowing me to speak today on this important topic,” said Clemente. “One of the biggest challenges of the opioid epidemic is the lack of knowledge about the problems people face. These assemblies, like we had today, help inform students of the dangers of opioids and addiction. I think a coordinated and committed effort at every level of government, local, state, and federal, is the only way to tackle this crisis.” Dingell and Clemente were also joined by Whitney Waskiewicz, principal of Lincoln Park Middle School; Simone Calvas, project director and community organizer for the Lincoln Park Substance Abuse Prevention Task Force; Gregory Clifton, Chief Judge for the 25th District Court; and Lincoln Park Mayor Tom Karnes. The impact of the opioid epidemic on young people is often overlooked. Over the past decade and a half, opioid poisonings have nearly doubled among children and adolescents. Research shows that any legitimate use of opioids before 12th grade confers a one third greater risk of non-medical opioid use in early adulthood. As a member of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce and the Bipartisan Heroin Task Force, Dingell is working to stem the opioid epidemic through fully implementing and funding the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA) and the 21st Century Cures Act. In Washington and in Lansing, Dingell and Clemente are working to pursue a multifaceted, collaborative public health and law enforcement approach to defeating the opioid epidemic, including through early education and prevention.
01.31.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement on President Trump’s State of the Union Address. “Tonight, President Trump outlined his plans for the future. While there are some concepts tonight where we can work together, there are others that are deeply concerning for Michigan and our country. My approach continues to be this: I will work with the President where I can and fight him where I have to. “What matters more than the words the President said tonight is his actions. He must deliver on the promises he made to the working men and women I represent, including renegotiating NAFTA in a way that ends outsourcing, raises wages and brings manufacturing back to this country. He needs to work with Congress to address the pension crisis and bring relief to the millions of workers who face staggering cuts to the retirement they’ve earned. We need to work together on a real infrastructure plan that devotes the resources necessary to fixing our crumbling roads and bridges and updating broadband and water infrastructure – one that fixes potholes rather than gutting environmental protections. “Finally, we need to work together to tackle comprehensive immigration reform. This is not a war of words between Republicans and Democrats. This is about real people’s lives. I was joined at the speech by Cindy Garcia, an American citizen born in Royal Oak, Michigan – a UAW working mom who is trying to do the right thing, but whose family has been ripped apart by our broken immigration system. Cindy's husband Jorge was brought to this country at 10 years old and has never received so much as a traffic ticket. He was not a criminal or a gang member. He was a respected member of our community, a hard worker who paid taxes, helped many and was loved by all. Yet he was deported to Mexico, a country he doesn't know and his family is devastated. America was his home. “The American people want to see us work together to get things done – from crafting an immigration policy that secures our nation without tearing families apart to stabilizing the health insurance marketplace in a way that brings down costs and ensures every American has access to affordable quality health care. That is our job – to work for working men and women. We need to work together to deliver for the American people.”
01.29.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today released the following statement on House passage of the Protecting Young Victims from Sexual Abuse and Safe Sport Authorization Act. “We all have a responsibility to protect our young people from despicable, predatory behavior, and this important legislation represents a first step in addressing the deep-rooted and systemic problems that came to light in the Dr. Larry Nassar case. This legislation sets up an independent body to investigate allegations of misconduct throughout Team USA and set up training for athletes, coaches and parents. This is an important step in the right direction, but we must continue to seek progress by ensuring the reforms made in this bill are fully funded. “I am also pleased that leadership of the Energy and Commerce Committee agreed to my request to hold hearings and conduct a bipartisan investigation into the Dr. Larry Nassar case. Even though Dr. Nassar will spend the rest of his life in prison, we must work in a bipartisan manner to get to the root of this issue and put the right protections in place to ensure it never happens again.”
01.26.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representatives Debbie Dingell (MI-12), Fred Upton (MI-06) and Tim Walberg (MI-07), members of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, released the following statement calling on the committee to hold hearings and conduct an investigation into the U.S. Olympic Committee, USA Gymnastics and Michigan State University’s handling of the Dr. Larry Nassar case. The Energy and Commerce Committee is the House Committee with jurisdiction over sports. “For 30 years, Dr. Nassar exhibited predatory behavior that scarred the lives of hundreds of young women. We are all inspired by the courage of these survivors to tell their story in court to expose the true character of Dr. Nassar and the scope of his misdeeds. Even though Dr. Nassar will spend the rest of his life in prison, we must get to the root of this issue and ensure it never happens again. There are many unanswered questions about how he continued to have access to young girls despite the numerous allegations against him. As the committee in the House of Representatives responsible for overseeing matters relating to sports, it is essential that the Energy and Commerce Committee exercise our jurisdiction on this important issue. “As a federally chartered institution, USOC has many questions to answer, including the details of their relationship with Dr. Nassar, how they dealt with allegations of abuse, and how they intend to fix the problem moving forward. It is imperative that we get to the bottom of this. “Families in Michigan and throughout the country were traumatized to learn the perverse details of this tragedy. It is incumbent on all of us to ensure this never happens again and to learn the role that USOC, USA Gymnastics and Michigan State University played in the tragedy.”
01.25.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representatives Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and Bob Latta (OH-05) were announced last night as Autos2050 award winners by the Auto Alliance and the Alliance for Transportation Innovation in Washington, D.C. The Representatives were recognized for making game-changing contributions to the automotive industry over the past year, including their leadership in passing the SELF DRIVE Act and work to advance the testing and deployment of autonomous vehicles as members of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce. “The future of mobility is here, and it is an honor to be recognized by the Auto Alliance and the Alliance for Transportation Innovation for our work to keep the U.S. in the driver’s seat,” said Dingell. “I was proud to partner with Chairman Latta and our committee colleagues to pass bipartisan self-driving legislation that brings us closer than ever to reducing congestion on our roads, improving mobility for seniors and those with disabilities, keeping the U.S. at the forefront of innovation and technology, and reducing the more than 35,000 deaths on our roadways each year. We’re committed to ensuring the right framework is in place to encourage innovation, while always putting safety first.” "It's an honor to be recognized by the Auto Alliance for the work that we did on the Energy and Commerce committee to advance self-driving legislation,” said Latta, Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Digital Commerce and Consumer Protection. “From the beginning, this was a bipartisan effort with Congresswoman Dingell, and it's one of the best examples this Congress that it's still possible to work across the aisle to get things done in Washington. We're not quite there yet, but I'm optimistic that we can drive autonomous vehicle legislation across the finish line this year and unleash the innovation that exists in the automotive sector to help make our roads safer and increase mobility." “It is important to spotlight the innovators and pioneers who are making future advancements a reality today. Their efforts and technologies have the potential to bring tremendous societal benefits – first and foremost greater motor vehicle safety, as well as greater mobility and reduced emissions,” said Bainwol. Recipients were nominated by peers within the industry and selected by the Autos2050 SM Host Committee comprised of representatives from automakers. The 2050 Awards recognize ingenuity, impact and leadership.
01.23.2018	DEARBORN, MI – As Valentine’s Day approaches, U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) is inviting local students to participate in the “Valentines for Veterans” project by making handmade valentine cards for local veterans. Last year, students across the region created hundreds of cards to show veterans how much they are loved and appreciated. This is the fourth year in a row that Dingell has organized the “Valentines for Veterans” project. “Our Veterans have done so much to protect our country and the freedoms we enjoy every day,” said Dingell. “For Valentine’s Day, I invite all students to join us in showing our local veterans how much we love and appreciate them.” The cards will be delivered in the days before Valentine’s Day by Congresswoman Dingell and friends to both the John D. Dingell VA Medical Center and the Ann Arbor VA. Those who wish to participate may drop off cards at Dingell’s Michigan offices anytime between now and Thursday, February 8th, or call the Dearborn office at 313-278-2936 to arrange for pickup. Dearborn Office 19855 West Outer Drive Suite 103-E Dearborn, MI 48124 Ypsilanti Office 301 West Michigan Avenue Suite 400 Ypsilanti, MI 48197 After “Valentines for Veterans” received such an overwhelming response from veterans, schools and the community in 2015, Dingell launched the year-round “Sending Smiles to Vets” program, which engages young people on an ongoing basis to create cards and artwork for veterans. The program celebrates various seasons and holidays, including Independence Day, Veterans Day and Thanksgiving.
01.22.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Sander Levin (MI-09), Congressman Dan Kildee (MI-05), Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and Congresswoman Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) issued the following statement after voting ‘no’ on a bill that fails to include a long-term budget or the priorities of the American people: “It is unacceptable for Congress to continue funding the government just weeks at a time. Another short-term continuing resolution—the fourth since last October—hurts our military readiness and injects uncertainty into our economy. “Congress should pass a long-term budget that provides certainty to our military and addresses the priorities of the American people. With so many unresolved and pressing issues, including the opioid epidemic, pension crisis, disaster relief, crumbling infrastructure and protecting DREAMers, Republicans and Democrats must sit down together and reach a compromise. We stand ready to work in a bipartisan fashion to address these issues. “While Senator McConnell has now pledged Senate action, we need a commitment from Speaker Ryan in the House to work with Democrats on a long-term budget agreement as well as legislation to fix our broken immigration system and protect DREAMers. We oppose another short-term funding bill for these reasons.”
01.20.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today released the following statement on the federal government shutdown and outlined the anticipated impact on families in Michigan’s 12th District. Dingell will remain in Washington for as long as it takes to reach a bipartisan solution to re-open the government and stands ready to help constituents navigate issues and concerns. “It is unacceptable that after a year of putting off critical priorities and hurtling from one short-term funding bill to the next, President Trump and the Republicans who control the House and Senate refuse to work to find common ground to meet the needs of the American people. This shutdown is not good for this country and is completely avoidable. There is bipartisan support for legislation that would provide long-term funding for the government, certainty to the military, and address critical priorities including funding the Children’s Health Insurance Program and raising budget caps on non-defense spending, one third of which goes to veterans and national security. This is not a war of words; it is about real people’s lives, and we need to get it done. This is what the American people expect and it is what they deserve. “Last year, President Trump tweeted that ‘our government needs a good shutdown.’ There is no such things as a good shutdown. Failure to find a bipartisan compromise disrupts the lives of millions of Americans and has a significant impact on our communities and economy. The last shutdown cost the American economy $24 billion. This is unacceptable. We were sent to Washington to govern, and I stand ready to work around the clock to end this shutdown and do the job the American people elected us to do. My office will remain open to help families, veterans, seniors and businesses navigate this situation.” Anticipated Impact of a Federal Government Shutdown *Additional agencies, not listed, may also be impacted. This list is subject to updates and changes. The following services will continue during a shutdown: Veterans Health Administration will remain open and continue to provide medical services. Social Security beneficiaries will continue receiving checks. The U.S. Postal Service will keep delivering mail. Medicare and Medicaid claims will continue to be processed. Active military will continue serving. Air traffic controllers, prison guards and border patrol agents will remain on the job. NASA Mission Control will continue supporting astronauts serving on the Space Station. The United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) offices will remain open. The following services will be halted during a shutdown: Loans to rural communities will be halted. New applications for small business loans will be halted. Permits and reviews for energy and transportation projects will be halted except in cases of emergency. Consumer protection services (child product safety, financial security, etc.) will be halted. Non-essential Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) inspections of chemical facilities and drinking water systems will be halted. Most non-essential federal employees will be immediately furloughed without pay. New patients may not enroll in National Institutes of Health (NIH) clinical trials. The following services will continue in a limited capacity but may be halted in an extended shutdown: Veterans compensation, pension, education and other benefits will continue, but the ability to enroll for benefits may be limited in an extended shutdown. Board of Veterans Appeals activities may be halted in an extended shutdown. SNAP, school lunch benefits, and other nutrition programs may be limited in an extended shutdown. Tax refunds may be delayed by the IRS. Applications to get Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid may be delayed in an extended shutdown due to limited staffing. Passports will continue to be issued by the State Department, but processing of applications may be delayed or halted in an extended shutdown or at certain locations. Questions and Answers on the Anticipated Impact of a Federal Government Shutdown: Will I continue to receive my Social Security and SSI checks? During a government shutdown, recipients will continue to receive their Social Security and SSI checks. However, a shutdown suspends the issuance of Social Security cards. On a typical day, approximately 60,000 Americans apply for Social Security cards, which they may need to be able to start a job, take out a loan, open a bank account, or conduct other financial transactions. During a shutdown, no Social Security cards are issued. Will my mail still arrive? Yes. The approximately 500,000 Postal Service employees are exempt from furlough because the Postal Service is self-funded. Will I still be able to visit the national parks and monuments? During the 2013 16-day shutdown, national parks, national monuments, and the Smithsonian museums were closed. However, the Trump Administration has announced that it will work to keep national parks “as accessible as possible” in the event of a shutdown. Officials have said that the anticipated plan is to keep many national parks open for hiking, wildlife watching, snowshoeing and cross-country skiing. Open-air parks and monuments in Washington, D.C. will remain open. However, other services that require National Park Service staff, including campgrounds and concessions, will be closed. How will the shutdown affect FEMA natural disaster clean-up efforts? It’s unclear how ongoing FEMA recovery efforts in Texas, Florida, California, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands from recent hurricanes and wildfires will be impacted. FEMA staff would still respond to emergencies, but the Trump Administration has not clarified how many workers, if any, would continue with long-term projects. What is the impact on veterans’ services? During a government shutdown, all VA medical facilities and clinics will remain fully operational. However, VA call centers and hotlines cease to function, and Veterans Benefits Administration public contact services are not available. In addition, the 2013 16-day shutdown stopped progress in reducing veterans’ disability claims backlog, which had previously been progressing at a rate of almost 20,000 claims per week. In addition, during the 2013 16-day shutdown, many veterans lost access to vocational rehabilitation and education counseling services. What is the impact on U.S. military personnel? The Defense Department issued guidance today saying that in the event of a shutdown, “Military personnel on active duty, including reserve component personnel on federal active duty, will continue to report for duty and carry out assigned duties.” Regarding their pay, the Washington Post reports, “There would be no gap in their pay unless the shutdown lasted past February 1, and otherwise they would continue on the job without getting paid until the shutdown ended or until Congress and the President agreed to cover their costs before it ended. The last time the government shut down, in 2013, the military remained on the job and legislation to pay service members during the shutdown was signed by President Obama.” What is the impact on small businesses? A shutdown halts federal loans to small businesses. During a shutdown, the Small Business Administration stops approving applications for small businesses to obtain loans and loan guarantees, typically $1 billion per month. During the 2013 16-day shutdown, the SBA was unable to process about 700 applications for $140 million in small business loans. What is the impact on federal housing loans? During a shutdown, the Federal Housing Administration stops approving applications for housing loans. During the 2013 16-day shutdown, the FHA delayed processing over 500 applications for loans to develop, rehabilitate, or refinance around 80,000 units of multifamily rental housing. What is the impact on medical research? During a shutdown, NIH shuts down most medical research taking place on its campus in Maryland, prevents the enrollment of patients in NIH Clinical Center studies, and stops reviewing medical research grant applications and making or renewing research grants. What is the impact on the Centers for Disease Control? During a shutdown, CDC has to greatly curtail its activities to conduct flu season surveillance and monitoring, promote immunization, support state and local health departments, and update disease treatment and prevention recommendations. What is the impact on food safety activities? During a shutdown, the FDA is unable to support the majority of its food safety activities. The 2013 16-day shutdown sharply curtailed critical FDA food safety inspections of domestic and international food facilities. Which federal employees keep working during a government shutdown? When there is a government shutdown, federal agencies are required to classify their employees as either “essential” or “non-essential.” The employees classified as “essential” continue to work during the shutdown. However, the employees classified as “non-essential” are put on unpaid furlough. In the 2013 16-day shutdown, about 800,000 of the 2.1 million civilian federal employees in the executive branch were classified as “non-essential” and furloughed. Do furloughed federal employees get back pay? That is up to the Congress and White House. The precedent has been that furloughed employees are later paid, through enactment of legislation. For example, that was done in the most recent shutdown in 2013.
01.18.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today announced that she has invited Cindy Garcia of Lincoln Park, MI to be her guest at the 2018 State of the Union in Washington, DC. Ms. Garcia is a UAW worker and the wife of Jorge Garcia, a 39-year-old father of two who was deported to Mexico this week after living in the United States for 30 years. “This week, America watched in horror as Jorge Garcia, a father of two and husband to an American citizen, who was brought to this country at 10 years old and has never received so much as a traffic ticket, was torn from his family and the only home he knows,” said Dingell. “The Garcia family’s story is heartbreaking and infuriating. It is both a symptom of a long-broken immigration system and a new rash immigration policy that does not recognize the difference between a hardworking family man and a criminal. This must change. “Jorge’s wife Cindy has shown incredible resilience and courage in the face of these impossible circumstances. I am honored that she will join me at the State of the Union to be a voice for the hundreds of thousands of aspiring Americans who are part of the fabric of our communities, and who deserve a pathway to legal status in the country they call home. “Now more than ever, we must not lose sight of who we are and the promise of America. It is time for Congress and the President to find the political will to do what is right, not what is convenient, and fulfill this nation’s promise to those who come here seeking a better life and those who call this nation home.” Congresswoman Dingell spoke directly to ICE officials at the Detroit Field Office to obtain an extension for Mr. Garcia, which allowed him to stay in the country through the holidays until January 15. The Congresswoman continues to work with the Garcia family to reunite them as quickly as possible.
01.18.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) issued the following statements after news that U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has withdrawn its approval of Ohio EPA’s assessment of the state’s list of impaired waterways. That assessment failed to address the open waters of Lake Erie. U.S. EPA had previously accepted both Ohio’s and Michigan’s assessments even though Michigan had designated the open waters of Lake Erie as impaired, while Ohio had refused to do so. U.S. EPA now considers the Ohio assessment to be “incomplete.” Read the full letter here. “With this change of heart, EPA is finally taking a first step toward protect the drinking water 11 million people in Michigan, Ohio and throughout the Great Lakes region rely upon,” said Dingell, a Member of the Great Lakes Task Force. “Failure to recognize these waters as impaired puts public health and the Great Lakes economy at risk. There is no line of separation in Lake Erie, and it is clear that EPA must take a proactive approach in confronting this challenge facing the entire region.” “EPA’s decision to reconsider the status of the open waters of Lake Erie is right on. There is no magic line between the impaired Lake Erie waters of Michigan and Ohio,” said Kaptur, Co-Chair of the Great Lakes Task Force. “This is simple, Lake Erie should be designated as impaired because it is. This past summer 1,000 square miles of the Lake were covered in green slime – even a child can see the Lake is impaired. The State of Ohio has proven time and again that it has more excuses than solutions. We hope Governor Kasich and the Ohio EPA will join us in welcoming the U.S. EPA’s input and expertise in helping return our Great Lake to great health.” In November of 2016, Dingell and Kaptur teamed up to send a letter to the EPA urging them to disregard Ohio’s determination and list the waters as officially impaired. Kaptur and Dingell reiterated this call last May. This move appears to be in response to a lawsuit filed by environmental groups in federal court with the U.S. Northern District of Ohio Judge James Carr to order the U.S. EPA to formally rule the western basin of Lake Erie impaired.
01.18.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement after the Michigan Supreme Court rejected Gelman Sciences’ appeal seeking to overturn a decision by a local court judge. “This ruling is welcome news that will help the community and all stakeholders fight for a more just and comprehensive solution to the Gelman dioxane plume. This contamination has been spreading through the groundwater in Ann Arbor for decades because of an irresponsible business practice by Gelman Sciences. The company should be held accountable and be responsible for cleanup. I remain committed to coordinating with all stakeholders to ensure this contamination is properly remediated that that families and the environment are protected.”
01.16.2018	DETROIT, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement after touring the North American International Auto Show in Detroit with a bipartisan delegation of Members of Congress. “The future of mobility is here, and Michigan – the heart and soul of the auto industry – is leading the way. It was great to tour the Detroit Auto Show today with a bipartisan group of colleagues committed to working together to support the auto industry and advance mobility. Other shows may have glitz and glamour, but here in Michigan, we have grit and determination, and the innovation happening in the domestic auto industry is truly inspiring. “The Auto Show makes clear that automated vehicle technologies are no longer theoretical. Our companies can build them today, which makes passing the bipartisan SELF DRIVE Act to support the safe development and deployment of self-driving vehicles even more important. These advancements bring us closer to reducing congestion on our roads, improving mobility for seniors and those with disabilities, keeping the U.S. at the forefront of innovation and technology, and reducing the more than 35,000 deaths on our roadways each year, 94 percent of which are tied to human error. The auto industry is changing at a rapid pace, and we need a regulatory framework in place that will encourage innovation, while always putting safety first.” For photos please click here and here. The House of Representatives unanimously approved the SELF DRIVE Act, legislation championed and developed by Dingell, in September. The legislation establishes a framework for the regulation of self-driving vehicles that will allow manufacturers to innovate and increase safety on the roads. Dingell was joined on today’s tour by Michigan Representatives Mike Bishop (MI-08), Bill Huizenga (MI-02), Brenda Lawrence (MI-14), Sandy Levin (MI-09), John Moolenaar (MI-04), Dave Trott (MI-11), Fred Upton (MI-06) and Tim Walberg (MI-07), as well as House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Greg Walden (OR-02) and Energy and Commerce Digital Commerce and Consumer Protection Subcommittee Chairman Bob Latta (OH-05).
01.15.2018	DEARBORN, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement in honor of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Day. “Today we honor a man who dedicated his life to this nation’s promise of life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness for every person. His advocacy for the principles of love, justice, service and equality inspired people across this country, regardless of race, to seek a better, more tolerant and more just future. “On this day, we recommit ourselves to advancing the principles that Dr. King taught us, remembering that even in times of challenge, we are all Americans. We share common hopes, fears and dreams, not least of which is the common desire to build strong communities and create a brighter future for our children and grandchildren. “Today may we rededicate ourselves to working as one to forge a future where all may seek Dr. King’s vision of equality and opportunity. For we recognize that the fight for freedom and justice is never finished; it is ongoing and constant.”
01.13.2018	TAYLOR, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12), 12th District State Legislators and local officials today held a town hall in Taylor to provide information about the newly enacted Republican tax plan and what it means for Michigan. The town hall, part of a national day of action, drew a standing room only crowd of more than 100 attendees to discuss the legislation’s impact on working families and seniors in the coming months and years. Dingell was joined by Taylor Mayor Rick Sollars, State Representative Erika Geiss, and State Senator Hoon-Yung Hopgood, as well as State Representatives Darrin Camilleri, Cara Clemente, Abdullah Hammoud, Ronnie Peterson and Adam Zemke. The panel also included University of Michigan’s Stephanie Leiser, Maggie Rudolph from Center for Healthcare Research and Transformation and Tom Lutz of the Michigan Regional Council of Carpenters and Millwrights. “Today’s town hall was about giving people the opportunity to ask questions, share concerns, and hear from local officials and policy experts,” said Dingell. “Everyone knows where I stand – I voted against the Republican tax bill because it added trillions to our debt, promotes offshoring of jobs, kicks 13 million people off of their health care, and puts corporations over working families. Now that the bill is law, we must ensure that working men and women have an understanding of the tax bill so they can plan for the future. My top priority continues to be putting working families first and fighting to protect the programs the American people rely on.” “I am grateful for being able to work with the Congresswoman, my colleagues and Mayor Sollars on hosting today’s Tax Town Hall and for our policy experts Dr. Stephanie Leiser, Maggie Rudolph and Tom Lutz,” said State Representative Geiss. “It was wonderful to see so many of our constituents attend and ask excellent questions that we are all grappling with given the newness of the tax legislation and its wide and varied impact on people. I look forward to being able to have other programs such as today’s as the implications and impact of the tax changes become more clear so that we can best help taxpayers navigate through them.” "I am glad that so many residents were able to attend the town hall, ask questions and engage their legislators on how the far reaching tax bill would impact them,” said Senator Hopgood. “It was a great opportunity to learn how it affects our schools, our healthcare and economy, not to mention, our wallets. It is clear that working families in Michigan are treated unfairly in this tax bill, and we should all work together to address this basic unfairness." "Everything we do is about trying to provide an increased level of services to tax payers,” said Mayor Sollars. “From what I've heard today, this seems like it's not something that will be good for the people of Taylor. Government needs to be transparent so I'm happy to open City Hall on a Saturday for this.” “I'm glad to see such a high level of interest in tax reform from the Congresswoman's constituents,” said Dr. Stephanie Leiser, lecturer at the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy. “The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act will have broad impacts on families and businesses, but it was passed by Republicans with almost no public discussion. We all deserve an opportunity to understand and discuss these changes so that we can decide for ourselves whether they reflect our values and priorities.” “At minimum, this tax bill will cost us $1.5 trillion and it won’t create any jobs,” said Tom Lutz Financial Secretary, Michigan Regional Council of Carpenters and Millwrights Local 1045. “I don’t know about you but I look around and I can think of a few things we could do with $1.5 trillion. I see roads we could repair, bridges we could build, and good jobs we could create through investments in infrastructure and education rather than a handout to CEOs who have already admitted that this tax bill won’t create any new jobs.”
01.11.2018	DEARBORN, MI – U.S. Representative Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today sent a letter to U.S. Postal Service (USPS) Postmaster General and Chief Executive Officer Megan J. Brennan regarding recurring issues with mail delivery service in Ypsilanti. Dingell raised similar concerns in December 2016 after hearing from constituents and community leaders about long delays in pickup and delivery, periods where no mail is delivered for days at a time, and unresponsive and unreachable customer service. Dingell is urging USPS to investigate the matter and share steps being taken to improve service. “Mail delivery problems in Ypsilanti are an ongoing issue which I have raised before, but we are receiving a significant number of complaints from city leaders and constituents because the problems with mail delivery have become so serious,” wrote Dingell. “While it is understandable that the holiday season may cause some delays, these issues go well beyond that and have been going on for too long. Residents of Ypsilanti must be able to rely on timely, consistent mail service and this is clearly not the case at this time.” The full letter can be read here and below. Ms. Megan J. Brennan Postmaster General and Chief Executive Officer United States Postal Service 475 L’Enfant Plaza S.W. Washington, D.C. 20260 Dear Ms. Brennan: This letter is to once again address the unacceptable quality of mail delivery service in Ypsilanti, Michigan and to request that the U.S. Postal Service conduct an assessment of the problem and develop a plan to correct it. Mail delivery problems in Ypsilanti are an ongoing issue which I have raised before, but we are receiving a significant number of complaints from city leaders and constituents because the problems with mail delivery have become so serious. While it is understandable that the holiday season may cause some delays, these issues go well beyond that and have been going on for too long. Residents of Ypsilanti must be able to rely on timely, consistent mail service and this is clearly not the case at this time. Service issues include: Mail is often being delivered after 8pm. Packages are reported as delivered although they remain undelivered and stored on trucks overnight. Constituents rely on the safe and timely delivery of medications and other highly sensitive packages that require confidence in the ability of the USPS. Mail is not being delivered for days at a time. A large bundle of older mail is then delivered after several days. Mail is consistently being delivered to the wrong homes - so often that neighborhoods have taken to organizing street wide communication to sort on their own. The Ypsilanti Post Office is unresponsive to customer complaints. Residents are unable to speak to anyone via telephone regarding their mail service problems and voicemails are full. Lines and wait times at the Ypsilanti Post Office building are exceed hours during peak hours, oftentimes with no more than a single individual working the counter. A void in staffing means mail carriers are constantly changing and “filling in gaps” as opposed to mail carriers handling assigned routes. As I mentioned, this is not the first time we have heard these types of complaints about the Ypsilanti Post Office. It is important that these issues be investigated so we can understand the underlying issues that cause this chronic poor service and so the Post Office can implement the necessary corrective measures are implemented. Residents of Ypsilanti deserve a higher quality of service then they are receiving today. Please provide the results of your assessment of the problem as well as steps being taken to address. I am also requesting a meeting in the next few weeks with the appropriate USPS personnel to discuss these issues my constituents are facing, what USPS believes is causing them and what your action plan is to improve mail delivery for the residents of Ypsilanti. Thank you for your attention to this issue and I look forward to receiving your prompt response. Sincerely, Debbie Dingell Member of Congress
01.11.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today introduced the Hospital Preparedness Program (HPP) Reauthorization Act of 2018, which increases federal funding to support regional health care systems in preparing for natural disasters and other threats. The Hospital Preparedness Program, created after September 11th, is the only federal funding source that supports efforts by regional health care systems to improve preparedness and readiness. The program establishes important grants and regional health care coalitions that work together to guard against all threats. “Following a year in which we experienced record-setting natural disasters, Congress must be doing everything we can to ensure our health care system has the resources needed to prepare and respond to future threats,” said Dingell. “As a designated critical infrastructure sector by the Department of Homeland Security, hospitals face other unique threats including infectious disease outbreaks, superbugs, and antibiotic resistance. The Hospital Preparedness Program (HPP) is a vital tool to help hospitals prepare for the wide array of threats they face and we must ensure it has a robust and sustained authorization level.” “As key components of our nation’s critical infrastructure, the Hospital Preparedness Program (HPP) plays a vital role in helping hospitals and health systems sustain, develop and update their emergency preparedness and response capabilities,” said Tom Nickels, Executive Vice President of the American Hospital Association (AHA). “The investments through this program have improved health care system responses during many catastrophes, such as Superstorm Sandy, the Boston Marathon bombing, the Ebola crisis, and recent hurricanes, including Maria and Harvey. The AHA thanks Representative Dingell for introducing this important legislation and looks forward to working with Congress to reauthorize and strengthen the HPP.” The HPP Reauthorization Act has been endorsed by Trust for America’s Health, American Academy of Pediatrics, American Hospital Association, Association of American Medical Colleges and National Association of County and City Health Officials. The bill would increase the Hospital Preparedness Program’s authorization level to $515 million for each fiscal year through FY2023, doubling its current level of appropriated funding. This investment will go a long way to help prepare and equip our health care system nationwide in advance and response to future disasters and all other threats.
01.10.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today joined colleagues on the Bipartisan Heroin Task Force to announce the legislative agenda for 2018. The agenda includes commonsense, bipartisan legislation to address the opioid epidemic by supporting prevention, treatment, recovery, and law enforcement efforts. Included in the agenda is Jessie’s Law, bipartisan legislation introduced by Dingell and Congressman Tim Walberg (MI-07), named after Michigan resident Jessie Grubb who tragically died of an opioid overdose in March 2016. The legislation would help ensure doctors have access to a consenting patient’s prior history of addiction in order to make fully informed care and treatment decisions. Providing this information would help prevent cases like Jessie’s, where a recovering addict in Ann Arbor was unknowingly prescribed and discharged with a powerful opioid that led to her death. “The opioid crisis has touched nearly every family across this country,” said Dingell. “My father suffered from an opioid addiction much of his life and we lost my sister to a drug overdose almost 13 years ago. I know the constant ache of losing someone you love to the scourge of addiction, and believe we have a responsibility to confront this epidemic for families like Jessie’s. As someone who has experienced firsthand all spectrums of this issue, I believe this bill is an important step in developing effective strategies to protect families and save lives. Combatting the opioid crisis transcends politics, and it is my hope that Congress will act quickly to enact Jessie’s Law and these bipartisan proposals to end this deadly epidemic.” Full details of the legislative agenda are available here. The Bipartisan Heroin Task Force is led by Representatives Tom MacArthur (NJ-03), Annie Kuster (NH-02), Brian Fitzpatrick (PA-08), and Donald Norcross (NJ-01). “As we begin the New Year, the Bipartisan Task Force remains even more committed to fighting the opioid epidemic that has ravaged so many communities and families across the country,” said Congressman Tom MacArthur, co-chair of the Task Force. “Our agenda represents the important balance of showing compassion for those suffering with substance abuse, while stopping the flow of drugs into our neighborhoods. It’s a crucial step in this fight. Since its creation, the Bipartisan Task Force has grown to 100 members and has been able to successfully advocate against drastic cuts to the Office of National Drug Control Policy, and, shape and advance CARA and the 21st Century Cures Act through Congress. We will continue to build on these accomplishments and stand together in our fight against substance abuse.” "The opioid epidemic has had a serious impact on communities and families throughout New Hampshire, but no corner of the country has been untouched," said Congresswoman Kuster, the founder and co-chair of the Task Force. "The Bipartisan Heroin Task Force represents 100 Members of Congress, both Republicans and Democrats, who are standing together to take real action to stem the tide of this crisis. Our Task Force has successfully pushed for action in Congress to address the opioid epidemic. The agenda we're outlining today comprises bipartisan, commonsense solutions that will improve prevention, expand access to treatment and recovery services, and bolster support for law enforcement. I look forward to working with my colleagues to advance these proposals." “In 2016, more than 42,000 Americans died from an opioid overdose, including dozens right here in our community,” said Congressman Brian Fitzpatrick, vice-chair of the Task Force. “It’s clear this epidemic is destroying lives and costing our nation precious resources. While our Task Force has taken great strides in increasing awareness of, and providing legislative solutions to, opioid addiction, there is still work to be done. Fighting back against this epidemic requires the clear, bipartisan approach outlined in this agenda; one that responds to the real-world concerns expressed by local lawmakers, community leaders and healthcare professionals across the country who endeavor to tackle this crisis each day.” “The Bipartisan Heroin Task Force continues to stand together offering commonsense legislative solutions to curb the opioid epidemic because one preventable death is too many,” said Congressman Donald Norcross, vice-chair of the Task Force. “In New Jersey, deaths from heroin and fentanyl overdoses more than tripled in the last five years. That’s tragic and unacceptable. We must invest time, effort and money to save lives. Every delay means we’ll lose another child, grandchild, friend or neighbor to the disease of addiction.”
01.05.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today released the following statement after the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) appointed Dr. Ginny Creasman to be the new director of the VA Ann Arbor Health Care System. “Ensuring our veterans receive the quality, timely health care they deserve is a top priority for all of us in southeast Michigan. Today we welcome Dr. Ginny Creasman to the VA Ann Arbor Health Care System, where she will provide the leadership necessary to advance this critical mission as the system’s permanent director. Dr. Creasman comes to us with decades of health care experience, most recently as the Medical Center Director at the Aleda E. Lutz VA Medical Center in Saginaw. I look forward to working with her to ensure we are providing the best possible care to veterans in southeast Michigan.”
12.29.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – With bowl season in full swing, U.S. Representatives Debbie Dingell (MI-12), Jim Clyburn (SC-06) and Joe Wilson (SC-02) today wagered on whether the University of Michigan Wolverines or the University of South Carolina Gamecocks would win in Monday’s Outback Bowl Game. Dingell is wagering items from Zingerman’s Deli while Clyburn is wagering a basket of goodies from South Carolina and Wilson is offering up some South Carolina barbecue. “Coach Harbaugh and the Wolverines are laser focused on bringing home a win on New Year’s Day,” said Dingell. “The Gamecocks may be playing closer to home, but Michigan fans are energized and ready for a rematch of the 2013 Outback Bowl. We’re looking forward to celebrating a Michigan victory on Monday. Go Blue!” “We are looking forward to enjoying some Zingerman’s Deli after another Gamecock victory in this year’s Outback Bowl,” said Clyburn. “Go South Carolina!” “We are grateful for the Gamecocks’ continued success, we are excited to see them back in the Outback Bowl, and we look forward to another victory over Michigan,” said Congressman Wilson. The Outback Bowl will kick off at 12 p.m. EST on January 1st from Raymond James Stadium in Tampa, Florida.
12.21.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement on the Continuing Resolution to fund the government. “Congress has once again kicked the can down the road, passing a stop-gap bill that only funds the government for one month. It does nothing to provide certainty to businesses or families, and it does nothing to address urgent, overdue priorities for the American people. This bill fails to provide long-term funding for the Children’s Health Insurance Program, which is a lifeline for 100,000 Michigan children; it fails to address DACA and bring needed relief to the 800,000 young people who call this country home; and it fails to include a common-sense fix to put our nation’s pension plans back on solid footing so American workers can keep the retirement they have earned. “This short-term bill is a disappointing yet unsurprising way to end the year given that Republicans have spent the majority of 2017 working to rip health care away from the American people and push through a partisan tax bill that provides tax cuts to the wealthy at the expense of everyone else. Democrats remain committed to fighting for the priorities that matter to families and communities. This irresponsible plan does not live up to our responsibility as legislators, and I cannot support it.”
12.20.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement after the Michigan Department of Health and Human Services assessed that the state will exhaust its funding for Michigan’s Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) by April 2018 without action by Congress. “In the past few months, families across the country have received notices that their child’s health insurance will be canceled because Congress has failed to reauthorize CHIP, a lifeline for nearly nine million American children. That threat just became more real with today’s announcement that Michigan’s CHIP allotment will expire in April 2018 and cancellation notices will start going out in the New Year to 100,000 Michigan families. “It is unconscionable that Congress would add $2.3 trillion to the deficit in order to pass tax breaks for the wealthiest and big corporations while leaving children and families out in the cold. CHIP ensures every child can go to the doctor when they need to and receive necessary checkups and immunizations. It has always been bipartisan, and there is no reason it should not be today. This is not a time for games; this is about real people’s lives. I am calling on Republican leadership to come together with Democrats to renew CHIP in a bipartisan way before we go home for Christmas. American families cannot wait any longer.”
12.19.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement on House passage of the Republican tax plan. “Working families should be at the center of any effort to update our tax code. Instead, the legislation that passed the House today leaves working Americans behind – increasing taxes for 86 million families and jeopardizing the future of Medicare and Social Security, all while providing trillions in tax breaks to the wealthy and big corporations. This is plain wrong. “Republicans are trying to sell working families a bag of goods, but the American people will not be fooled. Those Representatives who voted today to put politics above the people they represent will have to answer to hardworking families across the country who will see their taxes go up as a result of this devastating plan. Working families deserve better, and now more than ever, we must continue to fight alongside them.”
12.18.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today continued a Dingell holiday tradition, releasing the 2017 edition of the Dingell jingle, set to the tune of “Winter Wonderland.” Full text of the jingle is below. House phones ring Are you listening Folks are mad But Ryan’s insisting Another tax fight! No funding bill in sight Walking in a winter blunderland Gone away is Obama Here to stay is constant drama We try to stay strong As Trump tweets along Walking in a winter blunderland In the darkness they can pass a tax plan And pretend that workers will be fine We say work together, they say no man! We don’t need your vote while we’re in town Later on, they’ll conspire To cut programs we require Who needs Medicaid When donors get paid Walking in a winter blunderland In the Congress we will keep on fighting Maybe we can find some common ground How ‘bout funding CHIP and fixing DACA Before we take those jet planes out of town Trump’s first year, it’s been chilling The New Year’s near, ain’t it thrilling It’ll be a new day, 2018’s not far away Walking in a winter blunderland Different views, let’s pursue No matter if red or blue Let’s keep taking a stand Let’s work hand-in-hand Till we’re back walking in a winter wonderland Walking in a winter wonderland
12.15.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representatives Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and Jeff Fortenberry (NE-01) introduced H.R. 4647, the bipartisan Recovering America’s Wildlife Act, to help promote and enhance our nation’s conservation efforts and ensure the long-term health of fish and wildlife throughout the country. The legislation, based on a recommendation from a panel of conservation and business leaders, would dedicate $1.3 billion annually in existing revenue from oil and gas royalties to the Wildlife Conservation Restoration Program. The funding would provide states with new critically needed financial resources to effectively implement State Wildlife Action Plans to conserve 12,000 species in greatest need of conservation while providing the public with more access to open spaces. “It has been proven over the decades that incredible gains in species conservation have been made with dedicated sources of funding,” Rep. Dingell said. “The Recovering America’s Wildlife Act builds off the successes of previous efforts including Pittman-Robertson, Dingell-Johnson, and the Land and Water Conservation Fund by giving state fish and wildlife agencies additional resources they need to proactively manage at-risk wildlife species. As we work to realize the full promise of these cornerstone programs, I am proud to introduce this legislation to further that commitment with my Republican colleague from Nebraska, Mr. Fortenberry. We both love the outdoors and know we must work hard to protect our natural resources. Together we believe we can get something done that will help bring conservation into the 21st Century and complement the other successful programs that are currently in place.” “This is a very important and creative legislative initiative to enhance wildlife ecosystems across our nation through constructive partnerships in states,” said Rep. Fortenberry. “Each of us, as citizens of this country, has the responsibility to ensure diverse fish and wildlife resources are managed for future generations. Fish and wildlife need healthy habitats to thrive—enhancing our lives and providing many other benefits,” stated Johnny Morris, Founder and CEO of Bass Pro Shops. “State fish and wildlife agencies have a solid track record of accomplishing remarkable recovery and restoration successes since the early 1900s. However, enhanced funding is now needed to address today’s fish and wildlife habitat management challenges.” “Our nation’s fish and wildlife are among its most valuable resources, along with clean air, water, healthy forests and agricultural lands that support all of us,” stated Virgil Moore, President of the Association of Fish and Wildlife Agencies and Director of Idaho Fish and Game. “Today we find ourselves at a critical crossroads and face a challenge that could alter our children’s and grandchildren’s opportunities to enjoy these resources. By investing in our State Wildlife Action Plans, which serve as a blueprint for restoring and managing the most sensitive imperiled species within our state’s borders, we will be ensuring future generations can enjoy our rich wildlife heritage.” “America's hunters, anglers, recreational shooters, and boaters have been the primary funders of state-based conservation efforts to this day,” said Congressional Sportsmen’s Foundation President Jeff Crane. “This recommendation simply directs funding for conservation from other sectors that use our natural resources.” “We thank Representatives Fortenberry and Dingell for introducing the historic Recovering America’s Wildlife Act,” said Collin O’Mara, President and CEO of the National Wildlife Federation. “This bill will help thousands of wildlife species through proactive, collaborative, on-the-ground efforts. The approach is unique because it calls for early action to save struggling wildlife, rather than waiting until species are on the brink of extinction and need expensive ‘emergency room’ measures to recover. When this bill becomes law, we will increase wildlife populations, strengthen America’s economy, and reduce the need for regulatory measures.” The Blue Ribbon Panel on Sustaining America’s Diverse Fish and Wildlife Resources, a group of national business and conservation leaders co-chaired by Bass Pro Shops founder John L. Morris and former Wyoming governor Dave Freudenthal, convened in 2015 to recommend a new mechanism to sustainably fund fish and wildlife conservation. In March 2016, the Panel recommended that a $1.3 billion trust fund be created using existing fees from energy and mineral development on federal lands and water to support implementation of State Wildlife Action Plans in every state, territory and the District of Columbia. Without a change in the way we finance fish and wildlife conservation, the list of federally threatened and endangered species is expected to grow from nearly 1,600 species today to thousands more in the future. The new dedicated funding created by the Recovering America’s Wildlife Act is aimed at preventing wildlife from becoming endangered to ensure the long-term health of all fish and wildlife that provide countless hours of outdoor enjoyment for the nation’s citizens.
12.11.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representatives Debbie Dingell (MI-12), Don Beyer (VA-08), and Raúl M. Grijalva (AZ-03) today led 104 House Democrats in a letter to House Leadership urging the removal of harmful provisions attached to the final spending legislation for FY 18 that would weaken the Endangered Species Act (ESA). The Representatives wrote in response to the FY 18 Interior/EPA bill, passed out of the Appropriations Committee, which contained several riders attacking endangered species conservation and removing protections for imperiled species, including wolves and sage grouse. “The Endangered Species Act is among the most effective laws protecting the land and wildlife the American people care about,” said Dingell. “Efforts to roll back the law have no place in unrelated legislation to keep the government open, and must be rejected. We should be working together to improve conservation in this country, not rolling back the clock.” The Representatives wrote: “We write to express our great concern over a number of harmful provisions in H.R. 3354 – the Department of the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2018 (“Make America Secure and Prosperous Act, 2018”) – that would undermine endangered species conservation and threaten one of our country’s most important wildlife conservation laws – the Endangered Species Act. We urge you to ensure that these controversial and far-reaching provisions are not included in final spending legislation for FY 2018. “We urge you to use your positions of leadership to uphold our nation’s legacy of protecting our natural heritage for future generations of Americans and reject the inclusion of any of these attacks on the Endangered Species Act and wildlife in any final bill to fund the federal government.” The Representatives went on to note that one amendment in the legislation would void federal protections for bears and wolves on national preserves in Alaska. This would weaken the National Park Service’s ability to prevent unsportsmanlike hunting practices – such as baiting, trapping, and “denning” – on lands under its own jurisdiction. A signed copy of the letter is available here, and full text follows below. Dingell has been a lead defender of wildlife and endangered species since coming to Congress, where she has championed legislation to protect and restore fish and wildlife, including the bipartisan Great Lakes Fish and Wildlife Restoration Act, which was signed into law last year. Dear Speaker Ryan and Minority Leader Pelosi: We write to express our great concern over a number of harmful provisions in H.R. 3354 – the Department of the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2018 (“Make America Secure and Prosperous Act, 2018”) – that would undermine endangered species conservation and threaten one of our country’s most important wildlife conservation laws – the Endangered Species Act. We urge you to ensure that these controversial and far-reaching provisions are not included in final spending legislation for FY 2018. The appropriations process has become a perennial magnet for provisions and amendments that seek to make significant changes to U.S. environmental policies. Rather than taking their policy proposals to the appropriate authorizing committees, many members have instead opted to insert them into appropriations bills, often without full consideration by Congress. These misguided efforts weigh down the important process to fund the federal government. We object to these policy provisions – especially those provisions that threaten American’s air, water, wildlife, and public lands. This letter focuses on the seven provisions currently in H.R. 3354 aimed at weakening the Endangered Species Act – a law that continues to serve as our nation’s most effective law in protecting wildlife in danger of extinction. We also strongly oppose a provision that would block implementation of critical rules developed by the National Park Service to regulate non-subsistence hunting in Alaska national preserves. When Congress passed the Endangered Species Act with near-unanimous consent, species were struggling to survive in the face of unmitigated human-caused threats to their existence. Since the Endangered Species Act was enacted, many of these species have rebounded over the course of just a few decades, including the bald eagle, the brown pelican and the humpback whale. Ninety-nine percent of species that have been listed under the Endangered Species Act have escaped the final fate of extinction, and many are once again thriving. We have a moral responsibility to continue to be good stewards of our environment and protect our natural resources for future generations. That translates into maintaining a strong federal Endangered Species Act that relies on sound science to guide decision-making. Polling shows that 90 percent of American voters support the Endangered Species Act and 71 percent believe scientists should make decisions about how to protect imperiled species, not politicians. Nevertheless, the underlying FY 2018 Interior/EPA bill that passed out of the Appropriations Committee contained three riders that undermine endangered species conservation by singling out certain imperiled species and denying them the protections of the Endangered Species Act. One would continue for a fourth year a rider that prevents the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) from taking any steps to list the sage-grouse under the Endangered Species Act. In September 2015, FWS determined that the greater sage-grouse was not warranted for listing under the Endangered Species Act, citing an unprecedented landscape-scale planning process as reducing threats to sage grouse - plans that will almost certainly be weakened under a new process initiated by Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke. This amendment would prevent an ESA listing for the sage-grouse, even if it declines closer to extinction. Another would block Endangered Species Act protections for wolves in the Midwest, reaffirm a court decision that delisted wolves in Wyoming, and obstruct citizens’ ability to go to court to challenge these delistings. Still another provision would go so far as to defund recovery measures for gray wolves throughout the entire continental United States, even though wolves currently inhabit only 15 percent of their historic range. This same provision would also block all spending on recovery efforts for the Mexican gray wolves, even though there are just 113 individual animals left in the United States and 35 in Mexico. The job of restoring wolves to still-suitable habitat across the United States – as the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service has done for other wide-ranging species like the bald eagle – is far from done. The bill only got worse on the floor, when 3 additional riders that would undermine the Endangered Species Act and harm threatened and endangered species conservation were added to the bill. Finally, Representative Don Young added an amendment that would void a federal rule conserving bears and wolves on national preserves in Alaska. If this language is enacted, the National Park Service would not be able to prevent unsportsmanlike hunting practices on lands under its own jurisdiction, including spotlighting denning bears and cubs as they hibernate. We urge you to use your positions of leadership to uphold our nation’s legacy of protecting our natural heritage for future generations of Americans and reject the inclusion of any of these attacks on the Endangered Species Act and wildlife in any final bill to fund the federal government. Thank you for your consideration. Sincerely,
12.07.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, after being pressed by Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) during a hearing of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Environment, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Scott Pruitt committed to keeping the doors of the National Vehicle and Fuel Emissions Laboratory open in Ann Arbor. The commitment comes after the Trump Administration’s proposed cuts to the EPA budget in 2018 would have forced the lab to shutter. “The more than 400 dedicated employees at the EPA Lab in Ann Arbor do critical work for every single state on automotive emissions and fuel economy,” said Dingell. “This work is vital to public health, the environment and our future economic competitiveness, and I am pleased that Administrator Pruitt has recognized the incredible value of this lab and its employees. It is because of the good work and dedicated advocacy of men and women of the Ann Arbor EPA Lab and the American Federation of Government Employees that we are able to keep this lab open and ensure this critical work continues.” Dingell visited the Ann Arbor EPA lab in May to speak out against proposed cuts to the facility, which conducts critical research, testing, analysis and technological studies in support of the establishment and monitoring of both fuel economy and vehicle emission standards. At today’s hearing, Dingell also pressed Administrator Pruitt on a number of other issues important to Michigan. Pruitt agreed with Dingell that lead is one of the most pressing environmental issues facing the country. Dingell pointed out that cuts already underway at EPA undercut that priority, including staff reductions and cuts to grants that support lead risk reduction programs. Dingell also pressed Pruitt on funding for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI), which was completely eliminated in the President’s 2018 budget proposal. Bipartisan Members of Congress from the Great Lakes states worked together to restore funding for the GLRI, which is the single most successful program for protecting the Great Lakes. Pruitt acknowledged the success of program but refused to commit to not cutting the GLRI in the future. Dingell responded, “We’ll be back if you do.” For video of Dingell’s questions and Pruitt’s answers, please click here.
12.06.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representatives Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and Daniel Webster (FL-11) today introduced legislation to strengthen and evaluate emergency preparedness procedures for hospitals and long-term care facilities. The Worst-Case Scenario Hospital Preparedness Act comes in the aftermath of the 2017 hurricane season, which caused flooding and power outages at hospitals and medical facilities from Florida to Puerto Rico, resulting in public health emergencies and, in some cases, loss of life. “Emergency preparedness policies and procedures at our nation’s hospitals have been seriously tried and tested this year,” said Dingell. “The destruction wrought in the paths of Hurricane Harvey, Irma, Maria and Nate left hospitals and long-term care facilities without power, flooded or shutdown, resulting in tragic loss of life. In the face of these extreme weather threats, it is critical that emergency preparedness procedures across all medical facilities be reviewed. This legislation takes a proactive approach to identify new polices that better address future threats – both manmade and natural – so we can better protect patients.” “Disaster preparedness is critical for protecting lives, improving resiliency and being good stewards of disaster relief dollars,” said Webster. “The bill is a practical approach to ensuring that hospitals and long-term care facilities across the nation are more resilient against natural disasters. Maintaining a high standard of inspection, upkeep, and disaster preparedness, especially in places like in my home state of Florida, reduces the future loss of important facilities that many seniors and veterans in my district rely on. Being better prepared on the front end should also save taxpayers millions of dollars in disaster relief.” The U.S. Department of Homeland Security lists health care as one of 16 critical infrastructure sectors. The Worst-Case Scenario Hospital Preparedness Act seeks to improve emergency preparedness in the health care sector by directing the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services to engage with the National Academy of Medicine to conduct a comprehensive study into the future threats impacting emergency preparedness procedures for hospitals, long term care facilities, and other health care facilities. The study will provide Congress with new recommendations and expert analysis on: current emergency preparedness policies and regulations; identifying new policies that better address all future threats; improving Federal grant programs to assist health care facilities; and providing updated guidelines for alternative power systems and access to clean water. For a copy of the legislation, please click here.
12.06.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement after President Trump declared Jerusalem the capital of Israel. “President Trump’s decision to designate Jerusalem as the Israeli capital outside of a comprehensive two-state solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is deeply disturbing as it undercuts continuing efforts toward peace. The final status of Jerusalem should be determined through negotiations between the two parties as part of a resolution to the conflict, as has been U.S. policy since 1967. This action raises tensions in an already restive region, placing Americans stationed in the Middle East at risk while increasing the chance of a wider regional conflict. I strongly oppose President Trump’s decision, which will serve as an obstacle to future peace between Israelis and Palestinians.”
12.04.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement after the Supreme Court allowed full enforcement of President Trump’s Muslim ban. “The Supreme Court’s decision to allow President Trump’s Muslim ban to go into effect while legal challenges continue in the lower courts is extremely disappointing. Freedom of religion is a fundamental pillar of our Constitution, and the President’s executive order represents a thinly veiled ban on entry to this country based on religion. This hateful action will keep people apart from their loved ones, and as national security experts have warned, make our country less safe. It goes against everything our nation stands for, and we will continue to fight against these efforts to divide us.”
12.04.2017	DEARBORN, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement after Rep. Sandy Levin (MI-09) announced that he will not run for reelection in 2018: "In his 35 years in Congress, Congressman Sandy Levin has been a champion for Michigan and the working families he represents. From working to ensure every child has the opportunity to receive a quality education to ensuring workers can complete on a level playing field, Michigan is undoubtedly better and stronger because of Rep. Levin’s decades of service. He epitomizes what it means to be a public servant, and am grateful to have had the opportunity to serve the alongside him. John Dingell and I wish him all the best and look forward to seeing all that he accomplishes in his next chapter."
11.29.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement after the House of Representatives approved a resolution requiring all employees of the House – including Members, interns, detailees, and fellows – to complete an anti-harassment and anti-discrimination training program during each session of Congress. “Today’s resolution is a first step in changing the culture on Capitol Hill, but we must go further. We also need to pass legislation introduced by Congresswoman Jackie Speier to bring accountability and transparency to the way sexual harassment claims are handled in Congress and ensure taxpayer dollars are never used to cover up unacceptable behavior. Everyone deserves to work in an environment that is free from harassment and hostility. If we are going to improve workplaces across this country, Congress must set the standard.” ###
11.27.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement on Governor Snyder’s agreement with Enbridge requiring the company to take immediate action to improve environmental protection for the Great Lakes, including replacing a portion of Line 5 and shutting the pipeline down during periods of adverse weather. “This agreement is a beginning toward safeguarding the Great Lakes and protecting the drinking water that 40 million people rely upon. The Line 5 pipeline carries twenty-three million gallons of oil through the Straits of Mackinac every day. A spill in this area would be devastating for the Great Lakes ecosystem, economy and our way of life, and that is a risk we cannot afford to take. Enbridge has repeatedly failed to disclose potential vulnerabilities to this pipeline, and this agreement will help hold the company to account, ensure the public is informed and that critical safety standards are in place. While this is an important step, I continue to believe that if a comprehensive study of the pipelines finds Line 5 to be unsafe, it should be shut down.”
11.20.2017	DEARBORN, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement as the remains of 2nd Lieutenant Donald Underwood, a pilot listed as KIA/MIA since World War II, were returned to his family today in Michigan. Dingell’s office worked closely with Lt. Underwood’s brother George Underwood, 91, of Wyandotte, and his son-in-law Mike Mehall, as well as the non-profit organization History Flight, to locate, recover and identify Lt. Underwood’s remains. Lt. Underwood’s remains will be transferred to Arlington National Cemetery for burial on November 28th. “Today, more than 73 years after Lt. Underwood was lost in World War II, his family is able to bring him home. This is a day of joy, of gratitude for Lt. Underwood’s service to our country, and a day of closure for his family, who never gave up hope. We must never forget the men and women in uniform who are missing in action, prisoners of war, and the individuals who have sacrificed so much for this nation. May this day bring hope to all families who are waiting for someone they love to return. I am grateful to those whose dedication made this day possible, and honored to have worked alongside Lt. Underwood’s family to help bring him home and honor his sacrifice in service to our country.” In 2013, former Congressman John Dingell’s office was contacted by the family of Lt. Underwood who was originally listed as KIA/MIA after his airplane crashed during the Battle of Tarawa on January 21, 1944. Through many years of letters and communications the family sought desperately to have Lt. Underwood’s body returned to them without success. Congressman John Dingell’s office, and then Congresswoman Debbie Dingell’s office, worked closely with the family, History Flight and the Department of Defense, to ensure the remains were identified and returned to the Underwood family.
11.16.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement after the House of Representatives approved the GOP tax bill, which provides tax cuts for the wealthy and corporations at the expense of working families. “The American people deserve better than the tax plan that passed the House today. The working men and women I represent deserve a tax plan that puts them first – that provides real relief for childcare expenses and student debt, that protects vital deductions that help families and seniors afford high medical expenses, and that promotes retirement security. Instead, this bill will raise taxes on 36 million working families, while providing a $1.5 trillion tax cut to the wealthy and big corporations who need it least. “To add insult to injury, adding $1.5 trillion to the deficit will starve the government of revenue that it needs to pay for critical programs like Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid – programs that the American people rely on for health care and a secure retirement and programs that are part of the very fabric of this country. This is unacceptable. I support tax reform that puts working families first, makes our tax code simpler and fairer, and promotes a strong economy, but I will not support a plan that provides tax cuts to the wealthy at the expense of the working families who need it most.”
11.16.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today joined colleagues in introducing the Rehabilitation for Multiemployer Pensions Act, also known as the Butch Lewis Act, which ensures multiemployer pension plans remain solvent and continue providing retirees and workers the retirement benefits they have earned. Dingell has been fighting against proposed cuts to retiree pensions since the Central States Pension Fund threatened to cut retiree benefits by as much as 70 percent, impacting 273,000 current and future retirees, including an estimated 30,000 Michigan members. “This legislation will bring relief to the tens of thousands of workers and retirees whose lives have been turned upside down by proposed cuts to their pensions,” said Dingell. “The working men and women I represent earned these pensions over a lifetime of labor and commitment. This is the money they counted on to retire with dignity and security – to afford to stay in their homes and afford their medicine – and we must do everything we can to ensure they have the benefits they have earned. This legislation addresses this crisis by shoring up multiemployer pension plans without taking a single penny from the retirement these workers were promised, and I am hopeful that we can advance it through the Congress as soon as possible. American workers have done their part, now it’s time for Congress to do ours.” Some of the nation’s largest multiemployer pension plans, including the Central States Pension Fund, are on the verge of collapse because they don’t have enough money to pay promised pensions to retirees and workers. The Rehab Act would ensure that all promised benefits are paid by creating a new office within the U.S. Treasury Department called the Pension Rehabilitation Administration (PRA). The PRA would issue bonds backed by the U.S. Treasury to finance loans to distressed pension plans so they can remain solvent and continue providing retirement security for retirees and workers for decades to come. The lead sponsor of the legislation is the House is Rep. Richard Neal (MA-01) while Sen. Sherrod Brown (OH) is leading the bill in the Senate. Dingell has been fighting against proposed cuts to retiree pensions since coming to Congress. Last year, she led a bipartisan coalition of 89 House colleagues in sending a letter to the U.S. Treasury Department urging the rejection of the application by Central States. Since the application was rejected in May 2016, Dingell and her colleagues have been working with all stakeholders to find a solution that will shore up multiemployer pension plans without placing an undue burden on workers and retirees.
11.12.2017	DEARBORN, MI – U.S. Representatives Debbie Dingell (MI-12), Sander Levin (MI-09) and Dan Kildee (MI-05) today joined Michiganders to highlight the devastating impact of the Republican tax bill on working families, students and seniors. The bill, which House leadership plans to rush to a vote next week, would raise taxes on 38 million working families across the country, while providing a $1.5 trillion tax cut to the wealthy and big corporations. The Representatives were joined by Michiganders who would be hardest-hit under the plan, which eliminates major tax deductions benefiting working families, including the student loan interest and medical expense deductions, and creates new incentives for big corporations to ship jobs overseas. “We need a tax plan that puts working families first – that provides real relief for childcare and education expenses, promotes retirement security and protects vital deductions relied on by families with sick children and those with long-term care needs,” said Dingell. “Instead, the Republican plan we will vote on next week asks working families to sacrifice more so multinational corporations and the wealthiest can get a tax cut – all while paving the way for future cuts to Medicare and Medicaid. The stories we heard today underscore the damage this bill would do to families, children and seniors in Michigan. I support tax reform that puts working families first, makes our tax code simpler and fairer, and promotes economic growth, but I will not support a plan that adds $1.5 trillion to the deficit only to benefit the wealthy. Working families must benefit.” “After a week of committee work, it's clear that the House Republican tax plan actually raises taxes on tens of millions of middle class Americans,” said Levin. “The bill gives the very wealthy and corporations massive tax breaks while eliminating deductions so many families rely on, such as for educational and medical expenses. Instead of thoughtfully working with Democrats, Republicans are trying to jam through something to placate their donors. This won't work for the American people.” "The Republican tax plan does not help the middle class,” said Kildee. “Their plan would cut taxes for the rich and big corporations while many middle class families would see a tax increase. Simply put, the Republican plan is a scam for the working people I represent and we must defeat it." “Like 45 percent of Americans our taxes would go up, not down, if this tax ‘reform’ is passed, making it harder for families like ours to maintain our tenuous financial stability,” said Ari Sammartino who lives in Ypsilanti with her partner Eli Rubin and their two children. “If our taxes were going up so that poor Americans would have a better life or if our taxes were going up to fund truly universal programs that would be accessible to every American, that would be one thing. And we would be proud to do our part. But it is galling that our taxes will go up so that rich people don’t have to pay the AMT or the estate tax, each of which only affect a small number of wealthy households, and corporations get a huge tax cut.” “We oppose the repeal of the medical expense deduction,” said Jay Kalisky, a volunteer with the American Cancer Society, who has been a Certified Public Accountant for 39 years. “We need to give added support to families who have chronic illnesses. Of the 9 million taxpayers that claim the medical deduction, 75 percent have incomes under $75,000. This is the middle class that we want to help.” “By eliminating educational tax credits, considering tuition waivers as taxable income, and taking away student loan interest as a deduction, this bill is sending the message that education is not expensive enough,” said Virginia Field, a graduate student studying Industrial and Systems Engineering at University of Michigan-Dearborn. “We need to help get people educated and contribute to the world not make sure they live under crushing debt.” The Representatives were also joined by Robert Gordon of the Sierra Club. According to the Joint Committee on Taxation, families in Michigan who make $20,000 to $40,000 a year would pay more in taxes under the Republican tax bill. Analyses also show that larger families will be especially hard hit. In addition to raising the standard deduction, the bill would eliminate the so-called personal exemption, which lets most taxpayers deduct about $4,000 for every person in their household. The bill also eliminates vital tax deductions used by millions of working families nationwide. It eliminates the state and local tax deduction; eliminates the student loan interest deduction, raising taxes and spiking the burden of student loans on graduates and current students; eliminates the medical expense deduction, which more than eight million Americans depend upon to afford high medical expenses; and provides corporations with new incentives for shipping American jobs overseas.
11.10.2017	DEARBORN, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement after an eight-member jury found Gunnery Sergeant Joseph Felix guilty of mistreating recruits, including Private Raheel Siddiqui of Taylor, Michigan, who died while training at Parris Island on March 18, 2016. “What happened to Raheel Siddiqui at Parris Island was a dereliction of duty and a tragedy. This young man was a son, brother, a class valedictorian and a patriot whose dream was to serve the country he loved and defend the freedoms many of us take for granted. Instead, Raheel and other recruits were targeted, degraded and mistreated by the individual charged. As the prosecution stated in closing arguments, Sergeant Felix ‘wasn’t making Marines, he was breaking Marines.’ “No matter what we do, we cannot bring Raheel back, but we must ensure that justice is served and that those responsible are held to account. I will continue working closely with the Marine Corps and the Siddiqui family to ensure justice is done and that we can prevent a tragedy like this from ever happening again. Additionally, evidence presented at the trial reaffirms that the finding of suicide should be revisited. I will continue to work with all involved to have the initial findings revisited with additional facts that have become available so we can bring some measure of peace to the Siddiqui family.” Dingell has been in constant communication with the Marine Corps since Private Siddiqui’s death on March 18, 2016. She wrote Marine Corps Commandant General Robert B. Neller seeking further clarification on the circumstances surrounding Siddiqui’s death, and consistently pressed for additional information about the investigation into drill instructors and senior leadership at Parris Island.
11.10.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement in recognition of Veterans Day, which is observed on November 11. “Veterans Day is the day we pause to salute the men and women who have served our country and defended the ideals that make this nation great. We remember, honor and thank those who answered the call to serve in Europe and the Pacific during World War II, those who defended the 38th parallel in Korea, braved the jungles of Vietnam, fought in the deserts of Iraq and the mountains of Afghanistan, and those still standing up for democracy around the world. These courageous men and women have spent time away from their families – they’ve missed birthdays and holidays, and many have made the ultimate sacrifice, to protect our freedoms and way of life. We are forever grateful for their service and sacrifice. “Today, as we honor our veterans, we remember the words of President John F. Kennedy, ‘As we express our gratitude, we must never forget that the highest appreciation is not to utter words, but to live by them.’ Today, let it be our pledge that we will serve our veterans as well as they served us – with timely, quality health care, good-paying jobs, prompt benefits, and a roof over their heads when they come home. Let us all take a moment, not just today, but every day, to thank the veterans in our own communities, to remember those we have lost, those still serving around the world and the military families who serve and sacrifice alongside them. They have given us so much, and it is because of them that we proudly remain the land of the free and the home of the brave.”
11.09.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Following the tragic death of a veteran at the VA Ann Arbor Healthcare System after confusion over a Do Not Attempt Resuscitation (DNAR) order, U.S. Representatives Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and Tim Walberg (MI-07) today sent a letter to VISN 10 Network Director Robert McDivitt and VA Ann Arbor Acting Director Andrew Pacyna requesting information about all efforts being taken to implement recommendations made by the Veteran’s Affairs Office of Inspector General (OIG) to prevent a similar tragedy in the future. “It is critical that we fully understand the actions being taken to implement the OIG’s recommendations so that we can ensure that a similar tragedy never happens again,” the Representatives wrote. “Patient care and safety must be the top priority at the VA Ann Arbor Healthcare System. Our veterans have made great sacrifices for our nation, and we have an obligation to make sure they are properly cared for during all treatment.” The OIG report released this week made six recommendations to the VISN Director, including requiring staff to immediately verify resuscitation status of patients; ensuring that DNAR and the Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation orders align with one another; and improving staff training, among other recommendations. “While you have concurred with each of these recommendations we would request a full response regarding all efforts being taking to implement these potentially lifesaving recommendations for our veterans,” the Representatives continued. “We would also request an estimated timeline for meeting these recommendations and to receive regular updates throughout the process.” The full letter can be read here and below. November 9, 2017 Mr. Robert McDivitt Mr. Andrew Pacyna Network Director Acting Director Veterans Integrated Service Network 10 VA Ann Arbor Healthcare System 11500 Northlake Drive, Suite 200 2215 Fuller Rd Cincinnati, OH 45249 Ann Arbor, MI 48105 Dear Director McDivitt and Acting Director Pacyna: This letter is regarding the tragic death of a veteran at the Ann Arbor VA Medical Center and a subsequent report by the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Office of Inspector General (OIG). The report found that a nurse mistakenly thought the veteran had a Do Not Attempt Resuscitation (DNAR) order and therefore did not attempt to revive the veteran who then passed away. The OIG recently issued a report on this tragedy and made several important recommendations. It is critical that we fully understand the actions being taken to implement the OIG’s recommendations so that we can ensure that a similar tragedy never happens again. According to the OIG report, several factors contributed to the confusion surrounding the veteran’s DNAR status, but it is clear that there was no standardized process to manage the communication of a patient’s resuscitation status between nurses and doctors. It is even more troubling to learn that the existence of vulnerabilities related to confirming resuscitation status—particularly during worsening patient conditions—were identified by VA leadership a year prior to this incident and no remedial measures were taken. The OIG has made six specific recommendations, including requiring staff to immediately verify resuscitation status of patients; ensuring that DNAR and the Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation orders align with one another; improving staff training and education; obtaining an independent external review; and other administrative recommendations. While you have concurred with each of these recommendations we would request a full response regarding all efforts being taking to implement these potentially lifesaving recommendations for our veterans. We would also request an estimated timeline for meeting these recommendations and to receive regular updates throughout the process. Patient care and safety must be the top priority at the VA Ann Arbor Healthcare System. Our veterans have made great sacrifices for our nation, and we have an obligation to make sure they are properly cared for during all treatment. Thank you for your attention on this important matter and for the swift actions already being taken to ensure our veterans are receiving the highest level of care moving forward. Sincerely,
11.08.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today sent a letter to Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Chairman Ajit Pai raising questions about the new broadcast technology standard, ATSC 3.0, and the privacy implications it will have on consumers across the country. Dingell asked questions about what types of information would be collected from consumers to implement targeted advertisements under the new standard, and how the data would be handled and protected to ensure consumers’ privacy. She also asked how many television sets will be obsolete when the new standard is fully implemented. Dingell also sent a similar letter to Gordon Smith, CEO of the National Association of Broadcasters (NAB). “Broadcasters and other stakeholders deserve credit in developing this new standard that will undoubtedly bring significant benefits to consumers including more localized safety warnings and improved picture quality,” wrote Dingell. “However, ATSC 3.0 is also much more comprehensive than just improving picture quality and safety warnings. It is my understanding that the new standard also contemplates targeted advertisements that would be ‘relevant to you and what you actually might want to see.’ This raises questions about how advertisers and broadcasters will gather the demographic information from consumers which are necessary to do targeted advertisements, and what privacy protections will be in place for consumers. It is also my understanding that ATSC 3.0 will not be backwards-compatible, which means consumers will be forced to replace their televisions if it is widely adopted.” Dingell also noted that the word “privacy” is not mentioned a single time in the entire ATSC 3.0 draft order released by the FCC, and argued that the Commission’s technical review of the order cannot be separated from a review of privacy and security concerns. The FCC is set to consider the draft order during an Open Commission Meeting on November 16, 2017. “This continues a troubling pattern of indifference at the FCC towards consumer privacy,” Dingell continued. “To better address these concerns, I respectfully request answers to the following questions so that we call better understand the impacts of ATSC 3.0 on the consumer and how the FCC intends to consider privacy issues moving forward.” The full letter to Chairman Pai can be read here and below. November 8, 2017 The Honorable Ajit Pai Chairman Federal Communications Commission 445 12th Street SW Washington, DC 20554 Dear Chairman Pai: This letter is regarding what could be an exciting new broadcast technology standard, ATSC 3.0, and the implications it will have on consumers across the country. Broadcasters and other stakeholders deserve credit in developing this new standard that will undoubtedly bring significant benefits to consumers including more localized safety warnings and improved picture quality. Enhancing these capabilities will help our nation’s broadcasters perform their critically important mission of providing the American peo ple with free over-the-air programming. However, ATSC 3.0 is also much more comprehensive than just improving picture quality and safety warnings. It is my understanding that the new standard also contemplates targeted advertisements that would be “relevant to you and what you actually might want to see.” This raises questions about how advertisers and broadcasters will gather the demographic information from consumers which are necessary to do targeted advertisements, and what privacy protections will be in place for consumers. It is also my understanding that ATSC 3.0 will not be backwards-compatible, which means consumers will be forced to replace their televisions if it is widely adopted. While there are undoubtedly critical benefits of ATSC 3.0, we deserve to have a complete understanding of the overall impacts of this new standard. We should be having a robust dialogue about the privacy implications of this new standard as well as ensuring we are doing everything possible for consumers in any transition. This is critically important and very timely as the Commission is set to consider a Report and Order and Further Notice of Proposed Rulemaking authorizing the use of ATSC 3.0 during the Open Commission Meeting on November 16, 2017. Although privacy concerns were raised in the record, it was not addressed at all in the draft order released by the Commission. In fact, the word “privacy” is not even mentioned a single time in the entire draft order the FCC will soon take up. You further noted in recent testimony that the FCC is only considering the technical standards associated with ATSC 3.0, but this technical review cannot be separated from a review of privacy and security concerns. That is in fact the meaning of the phrase “privacy and security by design.” This continues a troubling pattern of indifference at the FCC towards consumer privacy. To better address these concerns, I respectfully request answers to the following questions so that we call better understand the impacts of ATSC 3.0 on the consumer and how the FCC intends to consider privacy issues moving forward. 1. You noted in response to my questions at a recent FCC Oversight Hearing before the House Committee on Communications and Technology that the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) will have a role in overseeing the privacy of ATSC 3.0 users. Has FCC staff coordinated with FTC staff to discuss these issues to ensure the FCC does not approve a technical standard that fails to adequately protect consumers’ privacy or security? 2. It is my understanding that there are several different business models for targeted advertisements under ATSC 3.0. One model includes building transmitters similar to cell towers around the DMA to do regional advertising. I understand this is a very capital intensive process with a high operating expense, but that it would not require the collection of personal information from consumers. Is that correct? If no personal information from consumers is required, what standards will be applied to determine whether my constituents would choose to see targeted advertisements or not? 3. It is my understanding that a second business model for targeted advertisements involves delivery via the internet. In this scenario will the age, sex, address, and other demographic information would be collected in order to deliver targeted advertising? Would consumers have to provide consent in order for their data to be collected? Could they choose not to provide their demographic information and not receive targeted advertisements but still receive the enhanced picture quality and public safety communications? If a consumer decides to provide their personal information, who is responsible for protecting it? 4. It is my understanding that another business model would use an encrypted signal, even for over-the-air television broadcasts that have traditionally been free. Would this require consumers to use some sort of encryption key to access the signal? Would such a key require a consumer to enter their age, address, gender, and other demographic information? If the free over-the-air signal is encrypted and needs demographic information from a consumer to access it, do you still consider this service to be “free” in your opinion? 5. There have been media reports that ATSC 3.0 would allow for better collection of audience data and would use this information as a sales tool for the advertisers, rather than relying on Nielsen or other measurement data. Will the new standards permit broadcasters to collect data on age, sex, income, address, or any other personal information? How will they be permitted to use this information? Will consumers be able to opt-out of having their data collected for this purpose? 6. It appears that new ATSC 3.0-capable TV sets could be susceptible to hacking, malware, and other potential computer viruses that could lead to predatory advertising instead of legitimate commercials. Is there anything contained in the proposal to address this potential problem? 7. How many TV sets are in the country today, and what will happen to them when ATSC 3.0 is deployed? How many TV sets will need to be replaced when broadcasters are not required to carry both the current ATSC 1.0 signal and the new ATSC 3.0 signal? What would you estimate the approximate cost to consumers to replace these sets? Thank you for your attention to these important issues. Answers to my questions will help give the American people confidence that we are adequately considering all of the impacts this new standards will have on consumers. I look forward to receiving your response and please do not hesitate to contact me directly if you have any questions or concerns. Sincerely, Debbie Dingell Member of Congress CC: The Honorable Mignon Clyburn, Commissioner, Federal Communications Commission The Honorable Michael O’Reilly, Commissioner, Federal Communications Commission The Honorable Brendan Carr, Commissioner, Federal Communications Commission The Honorable Jessica Rosenworcel, Commissioner, Federal Communications Commission The Honorable Greg Walden, Chairman, House Committee on Energy and Commerce The Honorable Frank Pallone, Ranking Member, House Committee on Energy and Commerce
11.08.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) introduced legislation to secure American voting systems against foreign interference. The Safeguarding Election Infrastructure Act of 2017 provides states with the information, intelligence and resources needed to protect electronic voting systems from manipulation and hacking, and to update aging infrastructure. “Our democracy depends on free and fair elections, and we must do everything we can to protect the security and integrity of that process,” said Dingell. “The reality is, many of our voting machines have not been updated in nearly two decades and are susceptible to cyberattacks. We know that foreign adversaries pay very close attention to our elections, and until we address these vulnerabilities, our democratic process is at risk. This legislation ensures states have the resources and intelligence necessary to protect voting equipment and safeguard our elections from outside interference.” According to U.S. intelligence community assessments, at least 21 state election systems were targeted by Russia-affiliated hackers in an attempt to influence the 2016 election. Recent reports document the relative ease with which America’s voting systems can be hacked and manipulated. At the most recent DEF CON hacking conference, hackers and security researchers were able to compromise five different types of voting machines in less than a day. During an election, these same vulnerabilities would allow bad actors to change vote tallies or manipulate voter registration databases. To address these issues, the Safeguarding Election Infrastructure Act: Allows for state and local election officials to get the needed security clearances, so federal agencies can share relevant intelligence and information needed to protect voting systems. Mandates every vote cast have a paper receipt and establishes a competitive grant program to help states update their voting machines. As it stands in some states, voters press a button and the machine tabulates the results. If a machine is compromised, election officials have no way to audit the results. Election results are audited using a statistically significant sample of paper ballots if the winner of the race receives less than 59 percent of the vote. Full text of the bill is available here.
11.03.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement on House Republicans’ legislation to reauthorize the Children Health Insurance Program (CHIP) and Community Health Centers (CHC) by slashing billions from Medicare and the Affordable Care Act. Video of Dingell’s floor speech is available here. “The legislation we considered today represents a choice that we should not have to make. When it comes to fighting for children and families, I will take a backseat to no one – it is the reason I ran for office. We live in the United States of America, the greatest nation in the world, and I reject the notion that we have to rob Peter to pay Paul – or in this instance jeopardize the future of Medicare and steal $6 billion from critical prevention programs seniors, children and families rely upon to pay for the Children’s Health Insurance Program. CHIP has always been bipartisan, and there is no reason that cannot be true today. We have a responsibility to provide care for all Americans – young, old, sick, healthy, rich and poor. We should not be providing health care for some at the expense of others. “The time for political games is over. CHIP is a lifeline for nearly 9 million American children, ensuring that every child can go to the doctor when they need to and have necessary checkups, immunizations and medical treatment. The program has already expired for more than a month, and the 100,000 children in Michigan who benefit from it now have their coverage in jeopardy because we are here playing games. Enough is enough. This is not an academic debate – this is about people’s lives. CHIP has always been strongly bipartisan, and we should be working together on consensus legislation that provides children and their families with certainty that they will have the care they need when their child gets sick; not this misguided proposal that puts our children, families and seniors at risk.”
11.02.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement on House Republicans’ tax plan. “Working Americans should be at the heart of tax reform. Families in Michigan and across the country are looking to Congress to enact tax reform that provides real relief for childcare and education expenses, makes homeownership affordable and accessible and promotes retirement security. Instead, the GOP tax plan released today gives a multi-trillion dollar tax break to the wealthy and big corporations at the expense of working Americans who need it most. “Particularly concerning is that this tax reform bill represents a one-two punch for the American people. After adding trillions to the debt in tax breaks for the wealthy, this plan paves the way for devastating cuts to Medicare, Medicaid and the programs families, children and seniors depend upon for health care and retirement security. This is unacceptable. Democrats fully support tax reform that puts working families first, promotes economic growth and makes our tax code simpler and fairer, but I will not support tax reform that adds $1.5 trillion to the deficit only to benefit the wealthy. Working families must benefit.”
10.27.2017	DEARBORN, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement after Enbridge announced previously unreported damage to the Line 5 pipeline. “These latest revelations are deeply disturbing. Michiganders deserve accurate information about the quality and condition of the pipelines, which carry 23 million gallons of oil through the Straits of Mackinac every day. Enbridge has repeatedly failed to disclose damage and potential vulnerabilities to Line 5 in a timely manner. This is unacceptable, and why Congressman Dave Trott and I have introduced legislation to ensure a comprehensive study of the pipelines. If Line 5 is found to be unsafe, it should be shut down.”
10.26.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement on the GOP Budget Resolution for FY18. “The American people deserve a budget that puts them first – that invests in good-paying jobs, grows wages, and invests in the promise of a secure and healthy retirement. The Republican budget resolution that passed the House today fails this test. It proposes to slash $1 trillion from Medicaid, which provides critical long-term care for seniors, and nearly $500 billion from Medicare, ending the program as we know it at a time when 10,000 seniors turn 65 every day. This proposal would also slash investments in education, job-training and infrastructure programs, which create jobs and help working families compete and succeed, and increase the deficit by more than $1 trillion – all to pave the way for a tax reform plan that provides a massive tax break to the wealthy and big corporations instead of the working families who need it most. “This is not responsible budgeting or responsible governing. Democrats fully support tax reform that helps working families succeed, promotes economic growth and makes the tax code simpler and fairer. We are ready and willing to work with Republicans toward that goal, but we cannot support a budget that cuts taxes for the wealthy on the backs of hardworking Americans, seniors and children.”
10.25.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement after the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) found that the Alexander-Murray health care plan to restore the cost-sharing reduction payments ended by President Trump would decrease the deficit and not impact the number of people with health insurance. “This urgently-needed bipartisan fix would restore critical cost-sharing payments working families depend upon and stabilize the marketplace. This is what we are supposed to do. Rather than pushing through partisan bills that kick millions off their insurance, Congress should be working together to improve health care and bring down costs for the American people. The Alexander-Murray plan represents a commonsense, responsible step to lower premiums and ensure protections for those with pre-existing conditions. We should have a clean vote on this bill as soon as possible.”
10.24.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Representatives Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and Susan Brooks (IN-05) hosted the inaugural 5G Caucus briefing with the Cellular Telecommunications Industry Association (CTIA). Meredith Attwell Baker, President and CEO of CTIA, and Brad Gillen, Executive Vice President of CTIA, shared a presentation with members of Congress and Congressional staffers explaining how the next generation of wireless connectivity will impact our lives. Dingell and Brooks are co-founders and co-chairs of the 5G Caucus. 5G is the fifth generation of wireless connectivity that will unlock the potential of the expected 20 billion internet of things connected devices. The 5G Caucus was founded as a means to educate members on the importance of 5G technologies, the key role it plays in economic growth and digital innovation, and the role Congress can play to unleash its power in this country. “Paving the way for 5G will help lay the foundation for American innovation,” said Dingell. “From advancing technologies like autonomous vehicles, which will make our roads and commutes safer, to building Smart Cities and promoting faster download speeds and connectivity, 5G has the potential to improve our lives and communities and keep American industries on the cutting edge. I am proud to launch the 5G Caucus with Congresswoman Brooks to explore how 5G will impact our communities and craft policies that will support this emerging technology, spur economic growth and keep the U.S. at the forefront of innovation.” “The United States has continuously led the way in smart technologies: the first cell phone was invented here, 4G networks were first deployed in this country, and the app industry was created here,” said Brooks. “Now, there are more wireless connections in this country than there are people. 5G plays a critical role in ensuring our technologies communicate efficiently, reliably and safely. Rep. Dingell and I are excited to lead on this issue in Congress and introduce the 5G Caucus together, which will further emphasize the importance of ensuring our laws keep pace with innovation. We look forward to learning more about how policymakers can continue to encourage the investment, development and innovation that are advancing this technology and revolutionizing our communities and economy in the process.” After this morning’s briefing, CTIA’s President and CEO Meredith Attwell Baker released the following statement: “We thank Representatives Brooks and Dingell for creating the bipartisan 5G Caucus. Their vision and leadership will help secure spectrum and infrastructure policies that will enable America’s wireless carriers to invest $275 billion to win the global race to next-generation 5G networks, resulting in the creation of 3 million new jobs and the addition of $500 billion to our economy.” To learn more about 5G and the resolution recently introduced, click here.
10.20.2017	DEARBORN, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) is inviting local students to participate in the Sending Smiles to Vets program by making Veterans Day, Thanksgiving and Christmas cards for local veterans. Since the Sending Smiles to Vets program was launched in 2015, students across southeast Michigan have pitched in to make thousands of cards thanking veterans for their service. “These handmade cards made with love and respect by young people mean so much to the veterans who have served our country,” said Dingell. “They remind our veterans each holiday that we are thinking of them and will never forget their service and sacrifice.” The cards will be delivered to veterans at the John D. Dingell VA Medical Center and the VA Ann Arbor Healthcare System for Veterans Day, Thanksgiving and Christmas. Dingell’s office will also be collecting valentines for the annual Valentines for Veterans delivery in February. Those who wish to have their cards included in the Veterans Day delivery should drop them off at Dingell’s Michigan offices between now and 4 p.m. on Wednesday, November 8, or call the Dearborn office at 313-278-2936 to arrange for pickup. Dearborn Office 19855 West Outer Drive. Suite 103-E Dearborn, MI 48124 Ypsilanti Office 301 West Michigan Avenue Suite 400 Ypsilanti, MI 48197 Dingell launched the year-round Sending Smiles to Vets program after Valentines for Veterans received such an overwhelming response from veterans, schools and the community. The program engages young people on an ongoing basis to create cards and artwork for veterans celebrating various seasons and holidays.
10.19.2017	TAYLOR, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and U.S. Congressman Joe Kennedy III (MA-04), members of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, today held an assembly at Harry S Truman High School in Taylor on youth opioid education and prevention. The Representatives were joined by more than 500 9th grade students for the event, which brought together educators, substance abuse counselors, elected officials, law enforcement, and community members addressing the opioid epidemic. “The opioid epidemic is impacting too many families and young people in Michigan and across the country,” said Dingell. “We all have a role to play in fostering greater awareness and collaboration to tackle this growing crisis. Today’s assembly was about listening to our young people, learning about the trials and challenges they face, and educating and empowering them so they can support their peers and make informed decisions about their futures. We were honored to welcome Congressman Kennedy to Taylor to discuss this important issue, and I look forward to continuing to work with him and all stakeholders in our communities to strengthen education, prevention, treatment and recovery so we can reverse the trends of this awful epidemic.” “Young people stand on the frontlines of our nation’s opioid epidemic,” said Kennedy. “Unafraid and unyielding, students create strong support systems for their peers, embrace loved ones battling addiction, and face their own personal challenges. With Congresswoman Debbie Dingell’s leadership in Congress and the stories of the students and local leaders I met today, we will continue to fight for a strong, comprehensive response to this epidemic on the federal level.” “This was truly an amazing educational event that hit home with several of our students,” said Truman High School Principal Melissa R. Skopczynski. “We cannot thank Congresswoman Dingell, Congressman Kennedy, Representative Geiss, Judge Salomone, Judge Clifton, Acting Police Chief Blair, Fire Chief Portis, Simone Calvas, and Jeff Cook enough for joining forces to support the Downriver Community in dealing with this serious issue.” “I’d like to thank Congresswoman Dingell and Congressman Kennedy for taking the time to talk to and listen to our students this morning; it was an honor to join them along with law enforcement and the Taylor School District and the substance abuse prevention community,” said State Representative Erika Geiss. “It was especially moving to hear Shelby’s story and I hope her telling it impacted the lives of the students in attendance this morning. As a member of the Michigan House, Taylor Substance Abuse Prevention Task Force, and FAN (Families Against Narcotics), I am committed to continuously working on this issue with community members like these students at the local, state and national levels to address substance abuse and prevention. By improving access to mental and behavioral health, we can begin to address some of the root causes that lead to substance abuse and addiction in our communities.” Dingell and Kennedy were also joined by Superintendent of Taylor Schools Ben Williams; Assistant Superintendent Dr. Mary Ann Cyr; Simone Calvas, substance abuse prevention counselor for the Taylor Substance Abuse Prevention Taskforce; Jeff Cook, director of school-based health at Beaumont Health; Acting Chief of Police at the Taylor Police Department John Blair; Taylor Fire Chief Stephen Portis; Geno Salomone, chief judge of the 23rd District Court; Gregory Clifton, chief judge of the 25th District Court; and Shelby Chaltry, a young person in recovery in the District Court Regional Drug/Sobriety Treatment Program, who shared her personal story. The impact of the opioid epidemic on young people is often overlooked. Over the past decade and a half, opioid poisonings have nearly doubled among children and adolescents. Research shows that any legitimate use of opioids before 12th grade confers a one third greater risk of non-medical opioid use in early adulthood. As members of the Energy and Commerce Committee and the Bipartisan Heroin Task Force, Dingell and Kennedy are working together to stem the opioid epidemic through fully implementing and funding the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA) and the 21st Century Cures Act, in addition to pursuing a multifaceted, collaborative public health and law enforcement approach to defeating the opioid epidemic, including through early education and prevention.
10.18.2017	ANN ARBOR, MI – As part of Domestic Violence Awareness Month, U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today brought together local domestic violence organizations, health care providers, resource centers, advocacy groups, law enforcement and elected officials to convene a regional coalition aimed at ending domestic violence in our communities. The Southeast Michigan Coalition Against Domestic Violence will combine diverse voices and perspectives to join forces and work together to prevent domestic violence and improve support for survivors. “We are convening this important coalition because we believe that we can do more together,” said Dingell. “We can more effectively reduce instances of domestic violence in our communities by finding new opportunities for domestic violence organizations to work hand-in-hand with law enforcement and health care providers, and by boosting coordination with campus programs and recovery resources. There are already outstanding examples of these partnerships across the region. This coalition is about building on what’s working and finding new opportunities to collaborate and move closer to communities that are free from violence and assault.” "Today's meeting was a critical first step in joining together domestic violence allies across the district to talk about the problem of domestic violence and the real solutions we can achieve, together,” said Barbara Niess-May, executive director of SafeHouse Center. “I am proud that Congresswoman Dingell is a valiant, and steadfast supporter of survivors and their children. Her story moves many, and she has turned that into action." “First Step is excited to be a part of this coalition,” said Interim CEO Ilene Hogan. “Together we can learn from each other, combine resources, raise awareness and provide more effective and comprehensive services to survivors of domestic and sexual violence. More awareness will hopefully lead to more offender accountability which will lead to safer homes for survivors in our communities. I am very grateful to Congresswoman Dingell for her leadership and commitment to survivors.” The Southeast Michigan Coalition Against Domestic Violence will work to build on successful partnerships, increase the effectiveness of existing programs by improving coordination among federal, state, county and local governments, and create policy solutions that prevent domestic violence and support those impacted by abuse and assault. The coalition is planning a second meeting with a broader group of participants and will hold a series of work sessions over the next year to address new obstacles and barriers facing survivors. At the federal level, Dingell is working to pass the bipartisan Zero Tolerance for Domestic Abusers Act, bipartisan legislation she introduced with Rep. Dan Donovan (NY-11) that protects survivors of dating violence and stalking by closing loopholes that allow abusers and stalkers access to guns. “I applaud Congresswoman Dingell for bringing together an effective and dedicated coalition of community leaders who work every day on the front lines to end domestic violence,” said State Representative Kristy Pagan. “I am proud to join in this effort with key stakeholders to offer policy solutions to support survivors of domestic violence, bring assailants to justice, and continue to change dialogue and culture around ending violence in our society.” “I was pleased to attend this morning's meeting regarding domestic violence in our state,” said State Representative Erika Geiss. “As a state legislator and vice chair of the Progressive Women's Caucus I am looking forward to continued work with this group and others on boldly addressing the issues of domestic violence prevention, improving the health and safety of victims and survivors, and improving the response to victims and the processing and adjudication of their assailants.” “Domestic Violence is affecting many families in my district and throughout the state,” said State Representative Cara Clemente. “Our hope is that if we actively increase education, awareness, and community involvement, we can help prevent sexual violence.” Domestic violence impacts people of all ages, races and backgrounds. On average, nearly 20 people per minute are physically abused by an intimate partner in the United States. During one year, this equates to more than 10 million women and men. Women between the ages of 18 and 24 are most commonly abused by an intimate partner, and according to Bureau of Justice Statistics, 1 in 3 teens reports knowing a friend or peer who has been hit, punched, slapped, choked, or physically hurt by his/her partner. The Southeast Michigan Coalition Against Domestic Violence will meet regularly to address domestic violence and other issues impacting women in the region. Nearly two dozen organizations and officials were represented at the meeting, including Mona Makki, Director, ACCESS Community Health and Research Center; Sharon Burnett, Director, Nurse-Family Partnership; Lynette Smith, Nurse Supervisor, Nurse-Family Partnership; Daniel Kelly, Executive Director, Shelter Association of Washtenaw County; Shareia Carter, Director, University of Michigan-Dearborn Women’s Resource Center; Catherine McClary, Board Member, The Women’s Center; Pam Cornell-Allen, Associate Director, Ozone House Youth & Family Services; Jyoti Gupta, Executive Director, Washtenaw Area Council for Children; Heather Colohan, Program Manager of Community Outreach and Systems Advocacy, University of Michigan Sexual Assault Prevention and Awareness Center; Laura De Palma, Gender Equity Organizer, Michigan United; Kathy Wyatt, Executive Analyst/Assistant to the Sheriff, Washtenaw County Sheriff’s Office; Felicia Brabec, Commissioner, Washtenaw County; Michelle Deatrick, Commissioner, Washtenaw County; Ruth Ann Jamnick, Commissioner, Washtenaw County; Mandy Grewal, Supervisor, Pittsfield Charter Township; Brenda Stumbo, Supervisor, Ypsilanti Township; Brenda McKinney, Treasurer, Superior Township.
10.16.2017	YPSILANTI, MI – After months of fighting back against attempts by the Trump Administration and Congressional Republicans to repeal the Affordable Care Act (ACA) and end Medicaid as we know it, U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today joined Michigan United and local leaders to discuss the importance of the Medicaid program to senior citizens, children and the disabled in Michigan. Dingell was joined by Eli Savit of Michigan United, State Representative Ronnie Peterson, Washtenaw County Commissioner Ricky Jefferson, Ypsilanti City Councilman Peter Murdock, Community Alliance Executive Director Kathy Grant, former State Representative John Freeman, and concerned citizens who shared their stories. “We know here in Michigan that Medicaid is a lifeline for seniors, children and people with disabilities,” said Dingell. “Medicaid covers 2.3 million adults and children in our state, including 700,000 Michiganders who are covered by Healthy Michigan through the Affordable Care Act. The Administration’s relentless assault on the ACA and Medicaid puts the health coverage that our most vulnerable populations depend upon at risk. This is unacceptable. “We’ve been able to stop these dangerous proposals so far because the American people stood up and spoke with a unified voice. But we must remain vigilant. We have to keep fighting, and that is why conversations like this are so important. Together we will keep telling our story about why Medicaid matters in Michigan and across the country and protect this vital program that is a lifeline for many.” Both the Graham-Cassidy proposal and the ACA repeal bill that passed the House of Representatives earlier this year threatened Medicaid to its core. The proposals would end Medicaid as we know it by turning the program into a per-capita cap program that does not take into account the expected growth in health care spending for the elderly and the disabled, all of which contribute to a growing, not shrinking, need for long-term care funding. Capping Medicaid would undermine access to care, jeopardize the fiscal stability of states, further strain family caregivers who are already overburdened, and lead to a significant decline in quality of long-term care. Medicaid is the largest payer of long-term care in the country accounting for 42 percent of all spending. As the U.S. population continues to age, the demand for long-term care is expected to double in the next 40 years. Among people 65 and over, it is estimated that 70 percent will need long-term care at some point, and people who are older than 85 are four times more likely to need these services than younger seniors. “We need to improve the Medicaid program, but we need to be reforming Medicaid by making it easier for seniors and people with disabilities to get the care they need, not harder,” said Dingell.
10.14.2017	YPSILANTI, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today joined approximately 3755 women and girls at the Eastern Michigan University Convocation Center to reclaim the Guinness World Record for the Largest Gathering of Rosie the Riveters since World War II. While the record must be authenticated before being made official, the gathering appears to have greatly exceeded the record of 2,229 Rosies set last year in California. “Today a diverse group of women, from six weeks to 110 years old, came together from Michigan and all over the world to help preserve our state's history and bring the Rosie record home,” said Dingell. “This was an incredible afternoon with all generations – including 58 Original Rosies – sharing stories, passing on our history and celebrating the iconic women who stepped up during World War II and forever transformed the role of women in the workplace. We were united as Americans and celebrating how everyone came together in this country at that historical time. These trailblazing women continue to inspire and empower us all, and reclaiming the world record is a perfect tribute to their enduring legacy and ‘We Can Do It’ spirit. Today we are all prouder than ever of the amazing story we represent.”
10.14.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement on reports that Michigan Attorney General Bill Schuette will not join a lawsuit to maintain critical cost-sharing reduction (CSR) payments for working families. “It is disappointing to hear that Attorney General Bill Schuette will not join over 20 states in filing a lawsuit to keep the critical cost-sharing reduction subsidies that directly lower out-of-pocket health care costs for those who need it most. 177,000 people in Michigan received CSR's in 2016 which represents 51% of statewide enrollment. President Trump's decision to revoke these payments will immediately result in increased costs for many in our state and across the country. We need to know exactly where our Attorney General stands and whether he believes every Michigander deserves access to quality, affordable health care. We need to help reassure people who are scared for what this means for their family that they will be able to get the medical attention they need if they get sick. Does Bill Schuette think that is wrong?"
10.13.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement after President Trump announced he would further dismantle the Affordable Care Act by ending critical cost-sharing reduction payments, which help seven million families afford out-of-pocket health care costs. “This spiteful decision by President Trump will have devastating consequences for the health care that families, seniors and children rely upon. The President’s action does nothing to improve care or bring down costs for the American people, which should be a shared goal of the President and every Member of Congress. Instead, this decision will directly result in higher costs for working families, create instability in the marketplace, and result in millions being uninsured in 2018. “This is absolutely unacceptable. The American people have rejected Trumpcare time and again. Since the President was unsuccessful in ramming his awful repeal bill through Congress, he has taken it upon himself to dismantle health care for the American people. This is shameful. President Trump is directly responsible for the negative impacts this will have on families across the country. Congressional Republicans should work with Democrats to reinstate these critical payments and improve, not undermine, the health care Americans depend upon.”
10.12.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement on President Trump’s executive order that rolls back health coverage protections for millions of Americans. “This executive order is the most extreme and blatant attempt yet to undermine and sabotage the Affordable Care Act and cause instability in the marketplace. Under the President’s plan, insurers will once again be allowed to offer junk policies that provide no coverage at all, taking us back to a time when Americans were one serious illness or injury away from bankruptcy. “The American people are demanding real solutions to the challenges facing our health care system. Rather than increasing costs and gutting protections for those with pre-existing conditions, President Trump and Congressional Republicans should come together with Democrats to stabilize the marketplace, bring down costs and extend quality, affordable coverage to more families. This is what the American people demand and it is what they deserve.”
10.12.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today reintroduced the Vehicle Innovation Act to promote investments in research and development of clean vehicle technologies that will create more fuel-efficient vehicles, reduce our nation’s dependence on foreign oil and support American auto manufacturers and suppliers. Congressman Matt Cartwright (PA-17) and Congressman Mark Pocan (WI-02) joined as original cosponsors of the legislation. “Michigan’s auto industry has made major advancements in cutting-edge fuel efficiency technologies in the last decade,” said Dingell. “This legislation builds on the progress made by investing in successful research programs that will help improve vehicle efficiency – saving consumers money at the pump, improving energy security and keeping the U.S. and southeast Michigan at the forefront of vehicle innovation. I’m proud to introduce this legislation that will support jobs and ensure the cars and trucks of the future continue to built in Michigan.” "The Motor & Equipment Manufacturers Association (MEMA) represents more than 1,000 motor vehicle supplier companies, which play a leading role in developing an array of innovative materials and technologies that improve vehicle fuel efficiency and reduce emissions. For this reason, MEMA applauds Rep. Dingell for today’s introduction of the Vehicle Innovation Act,” said MEMA President and CEO Steve Handschuh. “This legislation encourages important research, development and deployment activities that facilitate motor vehicle supplier innovation and helps suppliers stay at the forefront of cutting-edge technologies and develop new vehicle technologies for new cars and trucks. The domestic research and manufacturing activities supported by this bill will lead to increased fuel-efficiency, lower emissions and greater consumer choice of vehicle technologies.” The Vehicle Innovation Act reauthorizes the Department of Energy’s Vehicle Technologies Office, which works with manufacturers and suppliers to research, develop and deploy advanced vehicle technologies that improve energy efficiency. The bill also provides the Department of Energy with clear direction to build on successful research programs, such as the SuperTruck program that has produced a model tractor trailer with 115 percent increase in fuel efficiency. It also encourages the development of a wide array of technologies that have the potential to improve fuel efficiency and reduce traffic congestion, including vehicle-to-vehicle (V2V) communications systems, mild hybrids, engine down speeding, hydrogen and natural gas refueling, and electric vehicle charging technology.
10.06.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12), co-chair of the New Economy Task Force, released the following statement in celebration of National Manufacturing Day. “Manufacturing continues to be the backbone of the U.S. economy, and it is at the heart and soul of who we are in Michigan. Our state has been the home of every major auto company in this country for over a century and that remains true today. The hardworking men and women of the American auto industry have helped transform the automobile from the Model-T to the Taurus and now to some of the most fuel efficient vehicles on the market. “Michigan’s manufacturing story is really a story of innovation – and whether it’s building cars or developing next-generation drone technology, we continue to be on the cutting edge. Today we honor the working men and women of the American manufacturing sector who make the greatest products in the world. Today is also about continuing this legacy and showing young people what modern manufacturing really looks like. Nearly 3,000 manufacturing centers around the country will open their doors to students, educators and families to help inspire our next generation to fill the 3.5 million jobs manufacturers will create. This is critical to ensuring we continue to grow manufacturing, create good-paying jobs and ensure the U.S. leads in the 21st century global economy.”
10.04.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12), co-chair of the House Democratic Caucus New Economy Task Force, is seeking input from community colleges about how they are addressing the skills gap in the American work force with the goal of gleaning new information that will help guide policy discussions on the issue in Congress. Dingell asked community colleges to provide information on the skills being taught in educational institutions and how federal policy can help address the disparities between existing workforce skills and the skills sought by companies for the jobs of tomorrow. “Our nation’s community colleges are on the front lines of innovation,” Dingell said. “Students are learning to repair the engine of an airplane and protect against cyberattacks, and are being trained to enter vital skilled trades careers like welding, carpentry, plumbing and pipefitting. With the economy changing at a rapid pace, community colleges play a critical role in preparing our workforce for the jobs of tomorrow. Hearing from schools in Michigan and across the country will help inform our work to develop policies that will ensure the U.S. can compete in the 21st century global economy and ensure everyone who wants a good job can find one and provide for their families.” Despite 6.8 million Americans currently seeking jobs in the U.S., a recent survey by the National Federation of Independent Business found that 45 percent of small business owners said they were unable to find qualified applicants to fill job openings. “The skills gap leaves us unable to adequately address one aspect of America’s unemployment problem. Discovering more about how our educational institutions are specifically training students to enter the work force will help House Democrats prepare our future workers for their future careers,” said House Democratic Caucus Chair Joe Crowley (D-NY). “With the leadership of Rep. Dingell, I’m confident in House Democrats’ ability to develop policies that will help give students and workers the opportunities to gain the skills needed for the future.” With a rapidly changing economy and new challenges facing American workers, the New Economy Task Force will take a forward-leaning approach to job growth, looking at rapidly advancing technology, artificial intelligence, advanced manufacturing, and ensuring workers are trained for the jobs of tomorrow. The New Economy Task Force is one of five Democratic Caucus Jobs for America Task Forces, all focused on creating opportunities for growth, boosting hardworking families, and giving every worker the opportunity to achieve the American dream by developing legislation focused on investing in key industries. The effort was launched by House Democratic Caucus in September. For more information on the Jobs for America Task Forces, please visit: www.dems.gov/jobsforamerica.
10.03.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today questioned former Equifax Chairman and CEO Richard Smith during an Energy and Commerce Digital Commerce and Consumer Protection (DCCP) Subcommittee hearing entitled, “Oversight of the Equifax Data Breach: Answers for Consumers.” Dingell’s questions focused on how the American people can educate themselves about who has their data, how it is being used, and take reasonable steps to secure their identity and information if they do not even know who has it. Dingell also urged consumers to be aware that it is not just Equifax, but Experian and TransUnion that are collecting this data. “I share your belief that placing control of access to consumers’ credit data should be placed in the hands of the consumer, but most people had no idea that Equifax was even holding their data,” Dingell told Smith. “It’s one thing to take steps to mitigate damages after a breach has occurred, but going forward we must give consumers the chance to protect themselves before a breach happens.” “Why do consumers have to pay you to access their credit report?” she continued. “Why should that data not be free? We need a longer debate about who owns this data and how we educate the American people.” Video of Dingell’s questions, and Smith’s answers, can be viewed here. Dingell introduced the Data Protection Act of 2017 to require companies to better secure consumers’ sensitive personal information against a potential security breach. She is also a cosponsor of the Secure and Protect Americans’ Data Act, introduced by Energy and Commerce Ranking Member Frank Pallone (NJ-06) and DCCP Ranking Member Jan Schakowsky (IL-09), that requires baseline data security and breach notification to fill gaps that have been revealed by the large data breaches in the past few years. During the hearing, Dingell also asked Smith whether he or anyone on his team had seen signs that the attackers were backed by a nation-state. He refused to answer, only saying that Equifax has engaged the FBI. “Clearly something needs to be done,” said Dingell. “We can all sit here and talk about what went wrong, but we are doing the public a disservice to not at least begin the discussion on how to improve data security. It’s important that we take action on the topic and that all American consumers pay attention.”
10.03.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) introduced legislation that will require companies to better secure consumers’ sensitive personal information against a potential security breach. The Data Protection Act of 2017 would grant the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) rulemaking authority to ensure that any entity that stores personally identifiable information, including a consumer’s address, social security number or credit card number, takes measures to secure that information. “The recent Equifax data breach should serve as a wakeup call on the need to enhance data security,” said Dingell. “More than 140 million Americans were impacted by this breach and their sensitive data has now fallen into the wrong hands. We must raise the bar for companies that store sensitive personal information. This legislation will ensure that companies take proper steps to safeguard personal data and hold bad actors responsible.” The Data Protection Act requires entities to take reasonable measures to secure personal information, including following best practices issued by the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) and keeping software up-to-date in order to mitigate security vulnerabilities. The legislation would also increase penalties for companies that force individuals into binding arbitration in exchange for identity and credit monitoring services in the event of a breach. A copy of the bill is available here.
10.02.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement on the deadly shooting in Las Vegas. “Our nation awoke to horror as we learned that more than 50 innocent people lost their lives and hundreds more were injured in the deadliest mass shooting in our country’s history. Our hearts are with Las Vegas, those fallen and injured, their families and all affected by this unimaginable violence. May they find comfort in knowing that our nation stands with them and grieves alongside them. “We cannot allow fear or violence to divide us or change us. We must stand together and work together to prevent another act of cowardice from stealing innocent lives.”
09.30.2017	DEARBORN, MI - U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement on media reports that found widespread health and safety deficiencies in Michigan nursing homes, according to federal data. "I am deeply disturbed by reports that nearly a quarter of Michigan's nursing homes have been cited for serious health and safety violations, including instances of actual harm to residents. This is unacceptable. Families, seniors and those with disabilities who rely on these facilities deserve confidence in knowing that they will be safe and treated with care and respect. We cannot settle for anything less, and I will be looking at what role the federal government can and should play to ensure quality of care at these facilities, which serve our most vulnerable."
09.28.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) is reminding women and girls of all ages across Michigan that we need them to help preserve Michigan history and retake the Guinness World Record for the Largest Gathering of Rosie the Riveters in one place since World War II. Today, Dingell is also announcing the honorary co-chairs for the historic event, which will take place on Saturday, October 14, 2017 at Eastern Michigan University’s Convocation Center, 799 N. Hewitt Road, Ypsilanti, MI. The original Rosie the Riveter, Rose Will Monroe, worked as a riveter at the Willow Run Aircraft Factory in Ypsilanti, Michigan building B-24 bombers for the U.S. Air Force. The world record event is part of a spirited competition between Michigan and California to bring the record home, celebrate women in the workforce and inspire younger generations with the “We Can Do It!” spirit characterized by the female workers who stepped up to fill the factory jobs traditionally held by men during World War II. “Rosie the Riveter is part of our history in Michigan,” said Dingell. “She has inspired generations of women to break down barriers, and this effort to retake the world record celebrates her enduring legacy – a legacy that began at the Willow Run Bomber Plant in Ypsilanti. This day is about coming together as a community, telling the stories of the iconic women who changed the role of women in the workplace, and passing our history on to future generations. We invite everyone to join us on October 14th to bring the record home to Ypsilanti and celebrate the power that we, as women, bring to the workplace and the economy.” Dingell serves as co-chairperson of the effort with Supervisor Brenda Stumbo of Ypsilanti Township and Brenda McKinney, treasurer of Superior Township. The honorary co-chairs announced today are First Lady of Michigan Sue Snyder; former Congresswoman and now Macomb County Public Works Commissioner Candice Miller; UAW Vice President Cindy Estrada; Gretchen Valade, chairman emeritus of Carhartt; Detroit Free Press columnist Rochelle Riley; EMU Regent Michelle Crumm; and EMU Provost and Executive Vice President Dr. Rhonda Longworth. In October 2015, Dingell joined more than 2,000 women, including 43 Original Rosies, at the former Willow Run Bomber Plant in Ypsilanti to take back the Guinness World Record for the largest gathering of Rosie the Riveters since World War II. Last August, Rosies in Richmond, California set a new record with 2,229 Rosies gathered in one place. “Like the Rosies who came before us, Michigan women embody the ‘We Can Do It’ spirit,” Dingell said. “With the help of women all across the state, we are going to take our record back with a gathering that no one else can beat.” There is no cost to attend the event and doors will open at 9:00 a.m. There will be activities throughout the morning. In order to be counted in the World Record gathering participants are asked to arrive no later than 11:00 a.m. Women of all ages are encouraged to attend. Participants are also encouraged to register for the activity and can do so ahead of time here: http://yankeeairmuseum.org/rosie-world-record/. Costume requirements consist of dark blue work clothes, red socks, dark shoes with closed toes, and the quintessential red and white polka dot bandanna.
09.26.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today testified before the House Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee on Health about her legislation to improve transparency and patient care for veterans at the VA. H.R. 501, the VA Transparency Enhancement Act, would require VA hospitals to improve reporting of surgical infection rates, cancelled surgeries, and other issues impacting quality of care. The bill is one of 10 pieces of legislation under consideration at today’s legislative hearing by the Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee on Health. “The number one priority for all of us is to ensure that veterans receive the highest quality health care,” said Dingell. “The VA Transparency Enhancement Act is a critical step toward improving our VA healthcare system. By increasing transparency we can prevent bad outcomes for our veterans and identify problems at VA hospitals sooner. Our responsibility as Members of Congress is to be a voice and advocate for veterans all across this country and serve our veterans as well as they have served us. The VA Transparency Enhancement Act will help Congress understand when, where, and why infections are happening or if surgeries are being cancelled so the VA and Congress can effectively address the problem.” Dingell and Congressman Tim Walberg first introduced the bipartisan legislation in 2016 after an ongoing contamination issue at the VA Ann Arbor Healthcare System led to surgeries for veterans being intermittently canceled or moved to different hospitals. In meeting with VA leadership on the issue, the Representatives learned that VA hospitals are not required to report on surgical infection and cancellation rates, and that other reporting requirements can be improved as well. The VA Transparency Enhancement Act would bring VA reporting requirements more in line with other hospitals, and require them to report on surgical cancellations and the impact on patients for the first time. Dingell’s full testimony can be read below. Chairman Wenstrup, Ranking Member Brownley, thank you for your tireless dedication to our veterans and for allowing me to testify in support of my legislation, H.R. 501, the VA Transparency Enhancement Act. This bipartisan legislation, which I introduced with my colleague Congressman Tim Walberg from Michigan, is a commonsense measure we can take to improve transparency and quality of care for our veterans, and I urge the committee to consider this bill as soon as possible. My legislation simply requires the director of each VA medical center to send quarterly reports to the Secretary on the number of surgical infections at each facility and the number of surgeries which were cancelled or transferred to another hospital. The Secretary would then transmit these reports to Congress and publish them on the Department’s website to help improve transparency. This legislation is a direct response to an unfortunate incident at a VA hospital in my district. The VA Ann Arbor Healthcare System had a recurring problem with particulate matter appearing on trays of surgical equipment that are supposed to be sterile. In addition to raising the risk of infections, many veterans had their surgeries cancelled or moved to a different location. Cancelling or delaying a surgery could result in adverse health outcomes for veterans and we must know as soon as possible if this is happening at our facilities. This is not the only instance of cancelled surgeries at a VA hospital. In September 2015, the Star Tribune reported that the Minneapolis Veterans Affairs Medical Center was forced to postpone and reschedule dozens of surgical procedures after an “an unidentified substance” was found in sterilizing equipment. As I dug into the issue, I learned that VA hospitals are not required to publicly report on surgical infections and cancellation rates as other hospitals do. The VA Transparency Enhancement Act will help Congress understand when, where, and why infections are happening or if surgeries are being cancelled so the VA and Congress can effectively address the problem. We should know as soon as possible if surgical infections or cancellations are increasing at any VA hospital. Other hospitals are required to make this data available, and it is a transparent metric for all of us to ensure our veterans are receiving quality health care. Surgical infection rates are an important measurement and all patients in any hospital have a right to know. This should be critical for our veterans. Improving transparency at the VA by requiring these quarterly reports will help ensure we are doing everything we can to give our veterans the care they deserve and will help policymakers and VA staff craft an appropriate response to help fix the problem. The number one priority for all of us is to ensure that veterans receive the highest quality health care. We do not want to see any more surgeries cancelled or delayed because of unsterile equipment, but if it does happen again we must know about it right away. The VA Transparency Enhancement Act is a good government bill that represents a modest step to help improve confidence in our VA healthcare system. By increasing transparency we can prevent bad outcomes for our veterans and identify problems at VA hospitals sooner. Our responsibility as Members of Congress is to be a voice and advocate for veterans all across this country and serve our veterans as well as they have served us. Thank you again for inviting me to testify before this committee on this critical legislation that will improve both transparency and patient care at the VA. I thank the Chairman and Ranking Member for holding this important hearing and hope the committee will hold a markup on this legislation as soon as possible so it can proceed to the House floor.
09.26.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) invites 9-12th grade students from Michigan’s 12th District, families, high school counselors, veterans and servicemembers to attend Military Service Academy information sessions on Monday, October 16 and Tuesday, October 17. The events will provide an opportunity for students, parents and counselors to meet with representatives from the service academies, hear from Congresswoman Dingell and learn more about the nomination process through her office. “Our nation’s service academies offer young people the opportunity to receive a world-class education while serving our country,” said Dingell. “These schools provide exceptional education and training to prepare young men and women for leadership roles in our military. I’m proud that our office can be a resource for students interested in attending one of our nation’s prestigious service academies.” Those wishing to attend may RSVP here. For more information, please call Dingell’s Dearborn office at 313-278-2936. Monday, October 16, 2017 WHAT: Dingell Hosts Military Service Academy Information Session WHO: Rep. Dingell Representatives from the U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, U.S. Military Academy and U.S. Naval Academy WHEN: 5-7pm p.m., Monday, October 16 WHERE: Wayne County Community College, Downriver Campus, EPAC Room 1&2 21000 Northline Road, Taylor, MI 48180 Tuesday, October 17, 2017 WHAT: Dingell Hosts Military Service Academy Information Session WHO: Rep. Dingell Representatives from the U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, U.S. Military Academy and U.S. Naval Academy WHEN: 5-7 p.m., Tuesday, October 17 WHERE: Washtenaw Community College, Business Education Building, Room BE 140, 4800 E. Huron River Drive, Ann Arbor, MI 48105
09.25.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement on the Congressional Budget Office’s preliminary assessment of the Graham-Cassidy bill. “The CBO’s partial assessment of the Graham-Cassidy bill confirms what we’ve heard from families, health care providers and experts – that this bill would be devastating for families in Michigan and across the country, causing millions to lose health coverage and slashing a trillion dollars from the Medicaid program, which provides critical services for children and seniors with long-term care needs. The American people have rejected Trumpcare time and again, and this proposal is the most extreme yet. It’s time for Republicans to work with Democrats on bipartisan solutions that will update and improve health care for every American, not take it away.”
09.23.2017	TAYLOR, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today joined State Representatives, families and health care providers to highlight the devastating local impact of Republicans’ latest Trumpcare legislation, which the Senate GOP hopes to rush to a vote next week. Michigan stands to lose nearly $10 billion in federal health care funding by 2027 if the Graham-Cassidy bill is signed into law. According to a new report, premiums for those with pre-existing conditions could skyrocket by as much as tens of thousands of dollars. “The American people have overwhelmingly rejected Trumpcare, and the newest Graham-Cassidy bill repackages the same damaging proposals and makes them even worse,” said Dingell. “The stories shared by families and health care providers today emphasize how much is at stake. Not only does this bill end Medicaid as we know it by cutting and capping the program, it also eliminates Healthy Michigan and completely eviscerates protections for people with pre-existing conditions, including autism, asthma and even pregnancy. This is unacceptable. We should be working together on productive, bipartisan action to stabilize the insurance marketplaces and extend affordable health care coverage to more families, not ramming through devastating proposals that take it away.” "The effects of Graham-Cassidy would be devastating to our patients,” said Linda Atkins, chief executive officer of Western Wayne Family Health Centers. “Over 50% of our patients would become uninsured. That would cause them to begin using the ER for their healthcare, and those are things that we have been working so hard to turn around.” “It’s because of days like today why it is so important,” said Alexis Wyatt of Brownstown, who was unable to attend the event because her 10-month-old son Alexander had to be rushed to the hospital. Alexander was born with severe illnesses that are still being diagnosed, and Alexis relies on Medicaid for Alexander’s doctor’s visits, emergency room visits, and other treatments. “Alexander is unpredictable. We have many ER visits, hospital admissions, medicines, and health supplies,” she said. “His month medical supplies are $400, and that’s just for his feeding supplies. Without Medicaid, I could not afford that so then how would he eat or get nutrition? Without his feeding tube or constant care, he would likely die.” “The Graham-Cassidy bill is simply unacceptable when it comes to protecting the health and well-being of our patients, families and communities,” said Laura Appel, senior vice president and chief innovation officer, Michigan Health & Hospital Association. “Michigan hospitals cannot support legislation that will cost our state billions of dollars and eviscerate healthcare coverage and access to care on such a large scale.” Kari Snyder of Wyandotte whose mother's accounting job was outsourced to another company just as she was undergoing a biopsy for breast cancer, said, “my mom didn't quit or get fired. She just got outsourced. If we are going to give businesses the flexibility to do that, we need to protect their employees. The Graham-Cassidy bill doesn't do that. If not for pre-existing coverage, my mom might not be alive today.” "Downriver residents are rightfully concerned about recent healthcare proposals that threaten to cut essential benefits and return lifetime caps on insurance coverage," said State Representative Darrin Camilleri. "I am committed to fighting for these protections at the state level, and today's conversation is an important reminder of what's at stake in the debate about health insurance and prescription drug prices in Lansing and Washington." “I have deep concerns about the latest attempt to repeal the Affordable Care Act. Specifically, this will spell the end of Medicaid expansion in Michigan, meaning that about 650,000 of our most vulnerable residents —working families, children and seniors — will lose their health coverage,” said State Representative Erika Geiss. “Beyond that, leaving health care protections up to the states means that the popular and effective provisions of the ACA — such as coverage for pre-existing conditions and allowing young people to stay on their parents’ insurance until age 26, among many others — are at risk.” Dingell was also joined by State Representative Cara Clemente and Farah Erzouki, public health coordinator at ACCESS, to discuss the impact of the Graham-Cassidy bill on the state of Michigan. For photos of the event, please click here and here. Analysts estimate that by 2027, 32 million Americans could lose their health coverage under the Graham-Cassidy bill. The legislation ends the Affordable Care Act’s Medicaid expansion, which has extended health care to 695,000 Michiganders through the Healthy Michigan program; and ends premium tax credits, and cost-sharing reduction payments, all of which help millions of Americans afford health care. The legislation also permanently cuts and caps the Medicaid program—the largest health insurance program in the nation—which covers more than 74 million Americans, including more than 33 million children. In Michigan: • 695,000 people have gained health coverage since the ACA was implemented. • Roughly 1.6 million people in Michigan have pre-existing health conditions, and could have their coverage rescinded if the ACA is repealed. • Michigan received $3.08 billion in federal Medicaid dollars to implement the Healthy Michigan plan. This revenue could be lost if the ACA is repealed. • A recent University of Michigan study found that Medicaid expansion in Michigan has boosted our economy and our budget and will continue to do so for the next five years. According to the study, the Healthy Michigan plan has generated more than 30,000 new jobs each year – one-third of them being in healthcare and 85 percent in the private sector. These jobs resulted in approximately $2.3 billion more in personal spending power for Michigan residents.
09.22.2017	DEARBORN, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement after Education Secretary Betsy DeVos announced she would rescind Title IX guidance that protects survivors of sexual assault at colleges, universities and K-12 schools. “Secretary DeVos’ announcement is an outrageous affront to survivors of sexual assault across this country. The decision to rescind Title IX protections, and introduce new, less protective interim guidance before the rulemaking process has even taken place is unacceptable and turns back the clock to a time when survivors of rape and assault suffered in silence, terrified that if they came forward they would be ostracized on campus or in their classrooms, or that their voices would be ignored completely. We must protect due process, but what we cannot do is again tip the scales of justice against survivors. This decision does exactly that – it discourages survivors from speaking out and seeking justice and sends a message that instead of support, they will be met with doubt and skepticism. This is shameful and unacceptable.” Dingell is a strong advocate for building upon the critical sexual violence protections guaranteed under Title IX. In June, Dingell and Rep. Ryan Costello (PA-06) led a bipartisan letter to DeVos urging her to maintain Title IX guidance in K-12 schools. The letter, signed by 52 Members of Congress, also urged DeVos to continue training for Title IX coordinators and support other critical programs that combat sexual violence in schools. Dingell led a letter to DeVos this week urging her to maintain Title IX protections in K-12 schools and on college campuses.
09.21.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) held a town hall meeting at UAW Local 600 in Dearborn last night to discuss the renegotiation of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). The timely event comes as the third round of negotiations formally begin in Canada on September 23rd. The outcome of the negotiations will have major implications for Michigan families and the economy. “Michigan is the heart and soul of the American auto industry, and for too long bad trade deals like NAFTA have devastated our region – hollowing out our manufacturing base and costing tens of thousands of jobs,” said Dingell. “We now have an opportunity to renegotiate this failed agreement in a way that levels the playing field for the American worker, and it is critical that we get it right. We must hold the Administration accountable to ensure that any new agreement reflects the voices of workers like those we heard from at the town hall and keeps the promises President Trump made during the campaign – to create jobs, raise wages and bring manufacturing back to this country. I will not stop working until we get a better deal for the people I represent.” Dingell was joined by a diverse panel of labor leaders, advocacy groups and affected workers to discuss NAFTA’s harmful impact on Michigan families and needed reforms in any NAFTA replacement deal. Michigan ranks fourth in the nation in terms of NAFTA job losses. More than 60,000 Michigan jobs have been lost to trade since 2008. Since 2004, more than 910,000 American jobs have been certified as lost to NAFTA under just one narrow program, Trade Adjustment Assistant (TAA). Participants called for greater transparency in the NAFTA renegotiation process, stronger protections against currency manipulation and the elimination of NAFTA’s offshoring incentives and Buy American ban. “Working people in Michigan have the skills to compete with anyone in the world, but we need a level playing field," said Ron Bieber, president of the Michigan AFL-CIO. "It's time to rewrite NAFTA the right way – making it easier to export Michigan products instead of Michigan jobs. That means negotiating a new trade agreement with strong labor protections and tough penalties when countries break the rules, and when corporations don’t pay their fair share of taxes. We also need strong Buy American policies on the books to support job creation here at home. Leveling the playing field on trade will help working people in Michigan provide a better life for their families." “Donald Trump is president because he promised voters in Michigan he would replace or terminate the trade agreements that are promoting the offshoring of more good jobs every week after wiping out a quarter of Michigan’s manufacturing jobs – more than 150,000 – since NAFTA,” said Lori Wallach, director of Public Citizen’s Global Trade Watch. “We want a NAFTA replacement we can support and that means eliminating NAFTA’s special investor rights for corporations that make it easier to offshore jobs, eliminating the ban on Buy American procurement preferences that offshore our tax dollars instead of reinvesting them to create jobs here, and adding rules that raise wages in Mexico.” “More than twenty years of NAFTA has failed to bring the promised prosperity for working people,” said Sue Browne, rapid response coordinator for United Steelworkers. “Millions of manufacturing jobs and countless plants have closed because of a trade model which puts investors and corporate profits over the needs of families and Main Street. It’s time for a new direction that puts workers’ needs first." Dingell was also joined at the event by AJ Freer, vice president of UAW Local 600; Jennifer Kelly, director of research at the UAW; and Adonis Flores, organizer for Michigan United. Earlier this year, Dingell introduced a Blueprint for America’s New Trade Policy, a resolution outlining principles that must be included in any replacement of NAFTA, including adding strong, enforceable protections against currency manipulation. She also introduced legislation, the Promoting Transparency in Trade Act, to bring more transparency to trade talks by requiring the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) to publicly release the text of trade deals prior to each negotiating round and to publish the considered text at the conclusion of each round. More information is available here.
09.20.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12), along with Michigan Reps. Sander Levin (MI-09), John Conyers (MI-13), Dan Kildee (MI-05) and Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) today sent a letter to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) Administrator Seema Verma strongly urging reconsideration of the harmful cuts to the Michigan navigator organizations. On Friday, Michigan’s two largest navigators were informed they would receive devastating cuts for the 2017 enrollment period; Enroll Michigan’s budget will be cut by 90 percent and ACCESS would see a 36 percent drop. “Navigators perform crucial work in our communities, directly helping individuals with a range of issues regarding their health coverage. In addition to their core work of guiding consumers through the enrollment process, these groups hold public events that educate individuals about their coverage options, help patients locate providers and select a primary care doctor, assist in Marketplace appeals, and troubleshoot taxpayer problems with Form 1095A,” the Members wrote. On August 31, CMS announced there would be changes to the formula for grants for navigator organization. Last week, Enroll Michigan and ACCESS, received word of their harmful cuts. Dingell, whose district includes ACCESS, has fought for critical Navigator funding since coming to Congress. “As a Navigator, ACCESS has played a vital role in helping local families find and enroll in quality health care plans,” said Dingell. “It is unacceptable to take this resource away from families who are looking for help.” The full text of the letter is here and below. Dear Administrator Verma: As Members of Congress from Michigan, we write to express our opposition to cuts in health insurance Navigator services in our state and across the nation. We strongly urge you to reconsider these cuts, which threaten access to health coverage and other vital assistance for our constituents. In an August 31st bulletin, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) announced cuts to Affordable Care Act (ACA) initiatives that benefit consumers in Michigan and across the country. According to this bulletin, CMS is instituting a 90 percent reduction in spending on ACA advertising and education efforts, as well as a draconian new funding formula that slashes more than 40 percent from grants to Navigator organizations that help individuals enroll in coverage through the Exchanges. After many days of uncertainty, Navigators have now been informed of the full extent to which these cuts will impact their work. Funding cuts in Michigan will be devastating. The largest Navigator in the state, Enroll Michigan, has learned that their funding will be reduced from $1.2 million to $129,899 – a nearly 90 percent cut that will decimate the work of 28 sub-grantees operating throughout the state. Funding for another major Navigator, Arab Community Center for Economic and Social Services (ACCESS), will be cut by thirty-six percent from $555,000 to $352,478. These unexpected funding reductions jeopardize the future of Navigator organizations, and we are troubled by reports that groups have received no empirical justification for the cuts. Navigators perform crucial work in our communities, directly helping individuals with a range of issues regarding their health coverage. In addition to their core work of guiding consumers through the enrollment process, these groups hold public events that educate individuals about their coverage options, help patients locate providers and select a primary care doctor, assist in Marketplace appeals, and troubleshoot taxpayer problems with Form 1095A. The Congressional Budget Office recently reported that a cut in funding for navigators and other ACA outreach and advertising will increase the number of Americans without health insurance. By helping increase health coverage, Navigators touch the lives of consumers across America. A Kaiser Family Foundation survey found that in the ACA’s first Open Enrollment Period, Navigators and similar groups assisted 10.6 million people with their coverage. In our home state, Enroll Michigan helped approximately 49,000 consumers with coverage issues last year alone, directly assisting 1,692 consumers in signing up on the Exchange and helping more than 7,200 enroll in the Healthy Michigan Medicaid expansion. Without strong federal support for Navigators, consumers nationwide would find themselves without assistance and many would end up without health coverage at all. On behalf of our constituents and consumers throughout the country, we strongly urge you to reconsider your decision and provide reasonable funding that will allow these groups to continue their important work. In the absence of such a reversal, your agency will be undermining our fundamental goal of helping Americans find affordable health care.
09.19.2017	DEARBORN, MI ­– U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today led a letter to U.S. Department of Education Secretary Betsy DeVos urging her to maintain Title IX guidance in K-12 schools and on college campuses that protects survivors of sexual assault. The letter comes after DeVos announced plans earlier this month to revoke or rescind the Education Department’s Title IX guidance on preventing and investigating incidents of sexual violence and harassment. “We hear constant stories from survivors of sexual assault in both K-12 schools and universities,” the Representatives wrote. “They detail how they have been raped or experienced inappropriate sexual behavior and are suffering deeply as a result. Even when a school does the right thing and reports the assault, survivors are ostracized in classrooms and on campus for coming forward, isolated and alone. To them, Title IX is everything and weakening or eroding this landmark law would take away hope for survivors when they already have few places to turn. We must continue to go forward – not take unnecessary steps backward.” In addition to Dingell, the letter was signed by Reps. Donald S. Beyer, Jr. (VA-08), Salud O. Carbajal (CA-24), Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11), Keith Ellison (MN-05), Lois Frankel (FL-21), Hank Johnson (GA-04), Anne McLane Kuster (NH-02), Jacky Rosen (NV-03), Jan Schakowsky (IL-09), Mike Thompson (CA-05) and Peter J. Visclosky (IN-01). Dingell has long advocated for maintaining the critical sexual violence protections guaranteed under Title IX. In June, Dingell and Rep. Ryan Costello (PA-06) led a bipartisan letter to DeVos urging her to maintain Title IX guidance in K-12 schools. The letter, signed by 52 Members of Congress, also urged DeVos to continue training for Title IX coordinators and support other critical programs that combat sexual violence in schools. That letter can be read here. Today’s letter to DeVos is here and below. September 19, 2017 The Honorable Betsy DeVos Secretary U.S. Department of Education 400 Maryland Ave. SW Washington, DC 20301 Dear Secretary DeVos: It was of deep concern that we learned of your plan to revoke or rescind sexual assault policies under Title IX at the U.S. Department of Education. As you know, under Title IX schools have a responsibility to prevent and investigate incidents of sexual violence and harassment. We must ensure this policy protects survivors across the country. Guidance issued by the Department on Title IX enforcement helps ensure that no school administrator will ignore allegations of rape and sexual assault. It pushes them to do better, and not just through words, but with real consequences if their responses are not adequate. This policy must be robustly enforced to protect survivors across the country. We hear constant stories from survivors of sexual assault in both K-12 schools and universities. They detail how they have been raped or experienced inappropriate sexual behavior and are suffering deeply as a result. Even when a school does the right thing and reports the assault, survivors are ostracized in classrooms and on campus for coming forward, isolated and alone. To them, Title IX is everything and weakening or eroding this landmark law would take away hope for survivors when they already have few places to turn. We must continue to go forward – not take unnecessary steps backward. It was also disappointing that no survivor groups were invited to your announcement at George Mason University. Including these groups is essential in ensuring the Department hears all voices when crafting policies that are responsive to the needs of survivors. It is our hope that you will do a better job of engaging survivors moving forward. Going backwards is simply unacceptable and failing to provide a safe, transparent, and fair environment to survivors is not something we will entertain. As you continue these proceedings, we urge you to not weaken enforcement of Title IX in both K-12 settings and on college campuses. We will continue to keep a close eye on this issue to ensure the survivors of sexual assault are protected. Sincerely,
09.15.2017	ANN ARBOR, MI ­– U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the below statement on National POW/MIA Recognition Day following the announcement that the remains of Lieutenant Donald Underwood, a Michigan pilot listed as KIA/MIA since World War II, have been identified and will be returned to his family. Dingell’s office worked closely with Lt. Underwood’s brother George Underwood of Wyandotte, who will turn 91 next week, and his son-in-law Mike Mehall, as well as the non-profit organization History Flight, to locate, recover and identify Lt. Underwood’s remains. “Today we honor and remember our prisoners of war, those missing in action and the brave individuals who have sacrificed so much for this nation. On this day that is marked by pain and loss, it is also a day of hope – for soon, more than 73 years after Lt. Donald Underwood’s airplane crashed in World War II, his family will be able to bring him home. My office is grateful to those who never gave up on this effort. We are honored to help bring closure to the Underwood family and to honor and recognize the sacrifice Lt. Underwood made in service to our country. May this discovery bring hope to all families who are waiting for someone they love to come home.” In 2013, former Congressman John Dingell’s office was contacted by the family of Lt. Underwood who was originally listed as KIA/MIA after his airplane crashed during the Battle of Tarawa on January 21, 1944. Through many years of letters and communications the family sought desperately to have Lt. Underwood’s body returned to them without success. Congressman John Dingell’s office, and then Congresswoman Debbie Dingell’s office, worked closely with the family, History Flight and the Department of Defense, to ensure the remains were identified and returned to the Underwood family.
09.15.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and Congresswoman Susan Brooks (IN-05) introduced H.Res. 521, a resolution in support of facilitating the deployment of fifth generation (5G) mobile networks to communities throughout the country. In our increasingly mobile and interconnected world, 5G technologies will change the way people communicate and work. 5G networks will be able to connect billions of devices, autonomous vehicles, and new Smart Cities, transforming existing industries, growing our economy. “The U.S. has long been a leader in the development of new technologies that transform and improve our lives,” said Dingell. “Innovations like 5G are the new frontier – paving the way for advancements like automated vehicles and Smart Cities, and connecting people and devices at speeds nearing 10 gigabytes per second. I am proud to introduce this legislation with Congresswoman Brooks and look forward to exploring how 5G will impact our communities and how Congress can help lay the groundwork for this emerging technology that will improve our economy and grow innovation for years to come.” “5G technology unleashes possibilities that we have only imagined up until this point, such as driverless vehicles to create safer commutes to and from work, wireless security devices to secure our homes even when we are not there, and almost instant connectivity with first responders in the time of emergency,” said Brooks. “Greater connectivity will also spur economic growth in our communities and create millions of job opportunities for Hoosiers and Americans across the nation. 5G will help close the digital divide—it has the potential to make troubles of accessing internet in rural communities an issue of the past. I am excited to have introduced this legislation today with my friend from Michigan because it showcases the inevitable and exciting opportunities made possible by the latest generation of wireless connectivity. I am proud that Indianapolis is leading the way in innovation and job creation, and I look forward to a future of faster wireless connections and increased economic development that 5G will make possible.” Dingell and Brooks are co-founders and co-chairs of the 5G Caucus. Similar to 4G and 3G before it, 5G is a wireless connection built specifically to keep up with the proliferation of devices that need a mobile internet connection. This fifth generation of wireless connectivity will be built using small-cell networks employing 5G wireless technology. 5G evolution is expected to create 3 million new jobs and boost annual GDP by $500 billion, driven by a projected $275 billion investment from telecom operators. In addition to economic growth, 5G will bring us faster, almost instantaneous, connections. It will increase download speeds up to 10 gigabits per second. 5G gives wireless broadband the capacity it needs to power thousands of connected devices that will reach our homes and workplaces.
09.15.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) will hold a town hall on Wednesday, September 20th to discuss the renegotiation of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). The timely event comes as the third round of negotiations formally begin in late September. Michigan ranks fourth in the nation in terms of NAFTA job losses. More than 60,000 Michigan jobs have been lost to trade since 2008. Dingell will be joined by diverse witnesses from labor and advocacy groups as well as affected workers, who will present on NAFTA’s harmful impacts on Michigan’s working people and on needed reforms in a NAFTA replacement deal. The outcome of NAFTA talks will have a direct impact on Michigan’s families and economy. “For too long, trade agreements like NAFTA have devastated our region – leaving factories shuttered and jobs lost and costing many hardworking Americans the opportunity to earn a decent living,” said Dingell. “We now have the opportunity to renegotiate this failed agreement, but we must do so in a way that puts working families first. It is critical that Michigan workers have a seat at the table and that their voices are heard.” The town hall is free and open to the public. Those wishing to attend may RSVP here. Wednesday, September 20, 2017 WHAT: Dingell Holds NAFTA Renegotiation Town Hall WHEN: 7-9 p.m., Wednesday, September 20, 2017 WHO: Rep. Debbie Dingell Lori Wallach, Director of Public Citizen's Global Trade Watch Labor Leaders Affected Workers WHERE: UAW Local 600, 10550 Dix Ave., Dearborn, MI
09.15.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and U.S. Congressman Tim Walberg (MI-07) will co-host a Veterans Resource Fair in Washtenaw County on Monday, September 18th to provide veterans and their family members with access to resources earned through their service to our country. Approximately 20 veteran employment specialists, Veterans Affairs counselors, and veterans service organizations will participate. Constituents can call Congresswoman Dingell’s office at 313-278-2936 or Congressman Walberg’s office at 517-780-9075 for more information. That evening, Dingell and Walberg will join the Veterans Community Action Team and the Washtenaw Department of Veterans Affairs for a town hall conversation on veterans health care benefits and other critical issues. The event will provide an opportunity for veterans and military families to ask questions and receive information about the benefits and services available to them. Those wishing to attend may RSVP here. Monday, September 18, 2017 WHAT: Dingell, Walberg to hold Washtenaw County Veterans Resource Fair WHEN: 10 a.m. – 12 p.m., Monday, September 18; the Representatives will speak at approximately 10:30 a.m. WHERE: VFW Post 423, 3230 S. Wagner Rd. Ann Arbor, MI PARTICIPATING ORGANIZATIONS: American Legion Buddy-to-Buddy Dearborn Vet Center Department of Labor Disabled Veterans Outreach Detroit VARO (Veterans Benefits Administration) Eisenhower Center Fallen Heroes Foundation Habitat for Humanity Huron Valley Livingston County Veterans Services Michigan Works! Washtenaw Michigan Veterans Affairs Agency (MVAA) MVAA - Region 9 Veterans Community Action Team National Guard Family Assistance Center Operation: Military Resources VA Ann Arbor Healthcare System VA Loan Guaranty Division Washtenaw County Veterans Affairs … plus more to come! -- WHAT: Dingell, Walberg to participate in Veterans Town Hall WHEN: 5:30-7:30 p.m., Monday, September 18 WHO: Rep. Debbie Dingell Rep. Tim Walberg Michael Smith, Director, Washtenaw County Department of Veterans Affairs Brian Hayes, Public Affairs Officer, Ann Arbor VA Healthcare System Karen Valvo, Judge, Ann Arbor’s 15th District Court Colonel George S. Pettigrew (Ret.), Director of Army Instruction, Junior Reserve Officers’ Training Corps (JROTC) WHERE: Washtenaw Community College Morris Lawrence Building 4800 E. Huron River Drive, Ann Arbor, MI
09.13.2017	WASHINGTON, DC ­– U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today stood up for U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) workers in Michigan and across the country on “National Save the U.S. EPA Day.” The effort, led by the American Federation of Government Employees (AFGE), comes as the EPA faces deep funding cuts from President Trump and the Republican Congress that could slash up to 25 percent of the agency’s workforce and endanger its ability to protect public health and the environment for decades to come. “We cannot afford to lose these jobs or halt the critical work taking place in EPA offices in Michigan and across the country,” said Dingell. “That is why I have introduced legislation called the REGION Act, which would prevent the closure of any EPA regional or program office and protect thousands of jobs. This legislation will ensure that these dedicated scientists, engineers and public servants can continue working every day to protect the air we breathe and the water we drink now and for the future.” Dingell introduced the REGION Act in July following reports that President Trump’s budget request would force several offices to shutter, including the U.S. EPA’s Large Lakes Research Station office on Grosse Ile and the National Vehicle and Fuel Emissions Laboratory in Ann Arbor, which employs 435 people. Dingell visited the Ann Arbor EPA lab in May to speak out against proposed cuts to the facility, which conducts critical research, testing, analysis and technological studies in support of the establishment and monitoring of both fuel economy and vehicle emission standards. Dingell’s legislation would also prevent the closure of the EPA Region 5 office in Chicago, which serves Michigan, Illinois, Wisconsin, Indiana, Minnesota, and Ohio and is critical to protecting the air, drinking water, and health of residents in the Great Lakes states. “We need to stay united against these misguided cuts that would be bad for our economy, bad for our environment, and bad for our future,” Dingell said. “We must continue to make our voices heard that we want clean air, we believe in climate science, and we demand that the dedicated scientists and engineers at EPA be allowed to continue to serve the American people.” Earlier this year, President Trump proposed cutting the EPA budget by $2.6 billion, a 31 percent decrease. The proposed 2018 budget for the EPA will result in the elimination of the Office of Environmental Justice, the Office of Public Engagement, and all 14 climate voluntary partnership programs. In addition, the proposed budget will slash state grants, cut geographic programs, and eliminate funding for science and technology programs by 14 percent.
09.13.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and Democratic colleagues on the House Energy and Commerce Committee sent a letter to Equifax Chairman and CEO Richard Smith requesting more information about the massive data breach that exposed the sensitive personal information of approximately 143 Americans including Social Security numbers, addresses, driver’s license numbers, and credit card numbers. The members asked how the breach occurred and what steps the company is taking to protect consumers’ data and safeguard against future security breaches. Equifax’s public announcement occurred more than a month after the company discovered the data breach on July 29, 2017, and nearly four months after the unauthorized access first occurred. “Your company profits from collecting highly sensitive personal information from American consumers – it should take seriously its responsibility to keep data safe and to inform consumers when its protections fail,” the Representatives wrote. “We are writing with serious concerns about the immense scale of this data breach, and we have a number of questions about whether Equifax took appropriate steps to safeguard the personal information of consumers,” they continued. “We also have concerns about the amount of time it took for Equifax to notify the public of the breach and about the way Equifax is providing information to consumers.” With an Energy and Commerce hearing expected in October, the members have requested answers to a series of questions prior to the hearing, including: Why did it take Equifax more than a month to announce this massive data breach? How did Equifax determine that offering credit monitoring services for one year – provided by Equifax itself – would be adequate to make consumers whole? How much money per year would an affected customer pay Equifax to extend the “complimentary” credit monitoring services beyond one year? How much money would Equifax make after one year on credit monitoring services that would be unnecessary but for Equifax’s failure to safeguard consumer data? What measures is Equifax implementing after the event to improve the protection of consumer information residing on its network? What measures is the company taking to investigate the sale of stock in the aftermath of the company’s discovery of the data breach, including whether these or other executives sought to delay the announcement of the data breach? What measures, other than offering credit monitoring services and identity theft protection, is Equifax taking to mitigate harm to consumers? Full text of the letter can be read here and below: Richard F. Smith Chairman and CEO, Equifax Inc. 1550 Peachtree Street NE Atlanta, GA 30309 Dear Mr. Smith: Equifax announced on Thursday, September 7, 2017, that hackers had compromised the sensitive personal data—including Social Security Numbers, birth dates, names, addresses and other information—of “approximately 143 million U.S. consumers.”[i] This announcement came more than a month after the company discovered the data breach on July 29, 2017, and nearly four months after the unauthorized access first occurred.[ii] Equifax’s public announcement of the breach directed consumers to the website equifaxsecurity2017.com. Almost immediately, reports surfaced of a number of problems with the website.[iii] Some browsers were flagging the website as a phishing scam.[iv] Consumers reported that to find out if their information was compromised, the website requested two-thirds of people’s Social Security numbers in combination with their last names.[v] And even after providing that information, the status of their personal information is unclear or misleading.[vi] People who checked the website on both their mobile device and a computer received different results.[vii] And false information entered into the fields provides the same result as real information.[viii] We are writing with serious concerns about the immense scale of this data breach, and we have a number of questions about whether Equifax took appropriate steps to safeguard the personal information of consumers. We also have concerns about the amount of time it took for Equifax to notify the public of the breach and about the way Equifax is providing information to consumers. In order to access credit, and to participate in the modern economy, American consumers have virtually no choice but to entrust their sensitive personal information to the three main credit bureaus, including your company. Consumers cannot avoid sharing their personal information with your company by simply choosing to transact business elsewhere, and many consumers may be unaware that your company actually has their personal information. It is critical for companies like yours to protect consumer data, and to inform consumers when those protections fail. We seek answers to the following questions about what actions the company is taking to make consumers whole, how the breach occurred, and what the company is doing to safeguard against security breaches in the future: Equifax’s press release stated that criminals exploited a “website application vulnerability to gain access to certain files.”[ix] What was the specific vulnerability that was exploited? What is Equifax doing to identify other weaknesses in its data security program? Does the company conduct regular security audits? If so, how often? Please explain in detail the process for any such security audits. What security controls were in place that failed to protect sensitive consumer information? How recently were these security controls audited? How were the criminals able to conduct the exfiltration of consumer data by exploiting the website vulnerability? Why were the Equifax network operations and security staff unaware that volumes of data involving 143 million U.S. consumers had been exfiltrated from the Equifax network for so long? Does Equifax regularly monitor for intrusions into its network? Was it conducting regular monitoring during the time of the breach? This breach is the third that Equifax has experienced in two years.[x] What changes to its data security plans and procedures did Equifax make following each of the two previous data breaches? What operational and technical measures is Equifax implementing after the event to improve the protection of consumer information residing on its network? Equifax’s press release notes that the “information accessed primarily includes names, Social Security numbers, birth dates, addresses and, in some instances, driver’s license numbers,” but that for some consumers, credit card numbers and “certain dispute documents with personal identifying information … were accessed.”[xi] What specific dispute documents were accessed in this breach? What other personal identifying information was compromised? Why did it take Equifax more than a month to announce this massive data breach? What specific actions did Equifax take in this time to protect consumer information and mitigate potential harms to consumers resulting from the breach? What is Equifax doing to notify individual consumers whose information was compromised in the data breach? According to Equifax’s press release, the company will directly notify consumers “whose credit card numbers or dispute documents with personal identifying information were impacted.”[xii] Does this mean that Equifax will directly notify only a portion of the 143 million consumers whose personal information was compromised? What federal and state officials has Equifax notified of the data breach? When did Equifax notify these officials? It is our understanding that consumers in the United Kingdom and Canada were also affected by this breach. When and how were those consumers and government officials notified? Bloomberg has reported that three senior executives of Equifax “sold shares worth almost $1.8 million” on August 1, 2017—just days after the company discovered the breach on July 29, 2017.[xiii] What measures is the company taking to investigate the sale of stock in the aftermath of the company’s discovery of the data breach, including whether these or other executives sought to delay the announcement of the data breach? What date did these officials find out that there was a breach? What procedures does Equifax have in place for notifying senior officers within the company in the event of a data breach? Did Equifax comply with those procedures in this case? Are senior officials notified of every unauthorized access or unauthorized acquisition of company or consumer information? At what point are they notified? Equifax provides credit monitoring services to companies whose customers have been affected by data breaches. In this case, the very company whose data was breached is itself providing its own customers with credit monitoring services. Equifax’s press release states that the company will provide affected consumers with credit monitoring services and identity theft protection “complimentary to U.S. consumers for one year.”[xiv] What analysis did the company do to determine that one year of complimentary credit monitoring services and identity theft protection—provided by Equifax itself—would be adequate to make consumers whole? How does this service differ from the Equifax product known as Equifax ID Patrol and other services sold as part of Equifax’s regular business? How much money per year would an affected consumer who received this free service pay Equifax to extend the “complimentary” services beyond one year? Has Equifax estimated how much money it would make per year if every one of the 143 million consumers affected by Equifax’s data breach signed up for Equifax’s credit monitoring service and identity theft protection? In short, how much money would Equifax make after one year on credit monitoring services that would be unnecessary but for Equifax’s failure to safeguard consumer data? To sign up for TrustedID Premier, Equifax’s credit monitoring service and identify theft protection offered to consumers in connection with this breach, a consumer must agree to the TrustedID Premier terms of use, which initially included an arbitration clause—language that New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman called “unacceptable and unenforceable.”[xv] How did Equifax arrive at the decision to include an arbitration clause in its product’s terms of use? After first attempting to clarify that “the arbitration clause and class action waiver included in the Equifax and TrustedID Premier terms of use does not apply to this cybersecurity incident,” Equifax ultimately removed the arbitration language from its TrustedID Premier terms of use.[xvi] However, the arbitration clause in Equifax’s general terms of use on its website remains.[xvii] Will Equifax attempt to enforce this or any other arbitration clause against consumers who choose to use the TrustedID Premier service or consumers affected by the data breach, including those affected consumers who had previously purchased or subscribed to an Equifax product? What measures, other than offering credit monitoring services and identity theft protection, is Equifax taking to mitigate harm to consumers? Will Equifax waive fees associated with consumers’ freezing their credit with Equifax? Will Equifax pay for consumers affected by the breach to freeze their credit with the other credit bureaus? Finally, at the request of members of the Energy and Commerce Committee, the Government Accountability Office is evaluating the effectiveness of credit monitoring and other services in protecting consumers after a data breach.[xviii] What analysis has Equifax done to determine whether its monitoring services and identity theft protection, both offered for free in the wake of this breach or sold as a regular product, are effective in preventing identity theft or otherwise protecting consumers after a data breach? Your company profits from collecting highly sensitive personal information from American consumers—it should take seriously its responsibility to keep data safe and to inform consumers when its protections fail. Your assistance in this matter is greatly appreciated, and we look forward to receiving a response by September 22, 2017. Answers to these questions will also help us prepare for a Committee hearing on this issue that is planned for either later this month or in October. If you have any questions, please contact the minority committee staff of the House Energy and Commerce Committee at (202) 225-3641. Sincerely,
09.13.2017	WASHINGTON, DC ­– Today, U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) announced that she will serve in a leadership role in the House Democratic Caucus Jobs for America Task Forces, a united effort from the House Democratic Caucus to craft a real legislative agenda that will benefit hardworking Americans and middle-class families. Dingell, a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and leader on efforts to grow U.S. manufacturing, will serve as co-chair for the New Economy Task Force. “Today, every industry – from autos and manufacturing to health care and renewable energy – is changing at a rapid pace,” said Dingell. “The new economy presents challenges and opportunities, and it is critical that Congress focus on policies that will support the American worker. I look forward to working collaboratively with my colleagues, business, labor and academia to ensure we are making the right investments in America’s workforce today. How do we craft policies that support advanced manufacturing and keep jobs in this country, keep the U.S. at forefront of innovation and technology, level the playing field on trade, improve job training and support businesses that train and hire new workers? These policies are critical for creating good jobs and opportunity for all Americans, and are among my top priorities.” With a rapidly changing economy and new challenges facing American workers, the New Economy Task Force will take a forward-leaning approach to job growth, looking at rapidly advancing technology, artificial intelligence, advanced manufacturing, and ensuring workers are trained for the jobs of tomorrow. The New Economy Task Force is one of five Democratic Caucus Jobs For America Task Forces aimed at identifying opportunities and solutions for American workers in five key areas: Rebuilding America, Jobs With Dignity, Access to Jobs, New Economy, and Reinvesting in Our Returning Heroes. In the coming months, co-chairs of each task force will meet with business and labor leaders, issue experts, and American workers to develop policy goals and solutions that will benefit all Americans. The effort was launched by the House Democratic Caucus. “By making the right investments today, the United States will have a workforce with expertise in new technologies, new ideas, and new jobs that will give American workers access to new opportunities,” said House Democratic Caucus Chairman Joe Crowley (D-NY). “Congresswoman Dingell understands just how important it is to take a proactive and aggressive approach to jobs and our economy, and I’m grateful to her leadership in this important endeavor.” Dingell has long been a strong advocate for America’s working men and women. Since coming to Congress, she helped defeat the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP), which would have cost jobs and hollowed out the American manufacturing base, and is pushing for critical reforms for working families in the renegotiation of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). She is a leader on policies that keep manufacturing in the U.S., including the SELF DRIVE Act, legislation she championed to support the testing and deployment of automated vehicles. She is also leading the fight against proposed cuts to retiree pensions that would impact 30,000 Michiganders, and will soon introduce legislation to help shore up at-risk pensions and ensure retirement security. For more information on the House Democratic Caucus’ Jobs for America Task Forces, please visit: www.dems.gov/jobsforamerica
09.12.2017	ANN ARBOR, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement after Department of Transportation (DOT) Secretary Elaine Chao announced new guidance for automated vehicles during a speech at the Mcity Test Facility in Ann Arbor. “It was great to join Secretary Chao in Michigan, the center of the auto industry, for today’s announcement about the future of automated vehicles. Michigan is leading the way in this area with business, academia and federal, state and local governments all working together to test, develop and deploy self-driving vehicles. In my district alone, Mcity and the American Center for Mobility are reshaping what mobility will look like for decades to come. Today’s announcement reaffirms that the 12th District, Michigan and the United States will continue to stay in the driver’s seat. “This updated policy guidance also compliments legislation passed unanimously in the House of Representatives, the SELF DRIVE Act, which establishes a framework for the regulation of self-driving vehicles for the first time. Automated vehicles have the potential to transform mobility in this country – improving our economy and saving lives on the road. This is a unique opportunity for members of both parties to come together to improve safety, support the auto industry’s comeback, and help create more cutting-edge jobs in our state. Today’s announcement brings us one step closer to making this new technology a reality.” The SELF DRIVE Act, which Dingell developed and championed, was unanimously approved by the House of Representatives on September 6.
09.07.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement after Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos’ announced that she will rescind Title IX guidance on investigating sexual assault on college campuses. "I am deeply disturbed by the implications of Secretary DeVos' words today on sexual assault and domestic violence. For too long survivors of assault suffered in silence, afraid to come forward for fear of retribution, or quite frankly, lack of action. I am someone who grew up in a household that was violent – where our calls for help were ignored because my father was a prominent member of the community. We cannot go back to a time when domestic violence and sexual assault were simply swept under the rug. “The implications of the Secretary's statements are chilling for survivors; we need them to know that we have their backs. I know what happened in families like mine when there was no one to help. And on college campuses, and sadly high schools as well, the reality is too many survivors suffered the consequences and were forced out of school while their attackers harmed others with impunity. We must stand strong to ensure we protect survivors of sexual violence and abuse and stand against any effort to weaken the progress made.”
09.06.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement after the House Rules Committee blocked debate and a vote on her amendment to prevent the State Department from using any funds to close, merge or otherwise demote the Office of the Coordinator for Cyber Issues. Dingell offered the amendment after Secretary of State Rex Tillerson announced plans in July to shut down the office, leaving the U.S. as the only major country without a lead cybersecurity diplomat. “The United States was the first country to appoint a lead cyber diplomat, and many countries – both allies and adversaries – have followed suit. This leadership has given us a place at the head of the table, and we would be well-served to not give up our seat. Hacking into power grids, governments, and private companies is fast becoming commonplace and it is vital our voice be heard loudly when behavior of other countries runs afoul of international norms. “Cyber security is one of the last areas where bipartisan agreement on policy and strategy still exist. In a world growing ever more connected, the closing of this office is a mistake and one we can ill-afford to make. I will continue to pursue this issue and press Secretary Tillerson to reconsider shuttering the Cyber Office.” Dingell led 24 Representatives in sending a letter to Secretary Tillerson urging him to reconsider his decision to shut down the office. That letter can be read here.
09.06.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives unanimously approved legislation championed and developed by Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) that supports the safe development and deployment of self-driving vehicles. The SELF DRIVE Act, which was approved by the House Energy and Commerce Committee by a 54-0 vote in July, establishes a framework for the regulation of self-driving vehicles that would allow manufacturers to innovate and increase safety on the roads. “Today, with passage of the SELF DRIVE Act, we are one step closer to reshaping American innovation for generations to come,” said Dingell. “Automated vehicles have the potential to transform mobility in this country – reducing congestion on our roads, providing greater independence to seniors and those with disabilities, and helping to prevent the 35,000 deaths on our roadways each year. This is also fundamentally an issue of American competitiveness. Automated vehicles are going to be developed whether we like it or not. The question is whether the United States will remain in the driver’s seat as opposed to China, Japan, or even the EU who are all making significant investments in this space. The SELF DRIVE Act steers us in the right direction, and I want to thank the bipartisan leadership of the Energy and Commerce Committee for their hard work and support to get this legislation across the finish line. “This issue is so important for Michigan. Our state is synonymous with the development of the automobile; we transformed transportation and mobility with great inventors like Henry Ford, the Chryslers, Buick, and the Fisher brothers who all had a vision to make people's lives better. This isn't just about moving people from point A to point B, it is about human progress – the freedom of mobility to help make people's lives better and change the way the world moves. Michigan and the U.S. have always been at the forefront of this effort, and the SELF DRIVE Act will help ensure we can continue to innovate and lead for decades to come.” For video of Dingell’s floor speech, please click here. In 2015, over 35,000 people died on our roadways and early estimates indicate the number could rise to over 40,000 in 2016. NHTSA estimates that 94 percent of highway crashes are due to human error. The development of automated vehicles has the potential to significantly reduce traffic fatalities in the United States. The SELF DRIVE Act clarifies the federal and state roles for regulating highly automated vehicles (HAVs) to encourage the testing, development and deployment of HAVs in the United States. It includes language from five bills introduced by Dingell that: Create a Federal Advisory Committee within the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) with subcommittees to examine: mobility access for the disabled community, mobility access for senior citizens and populations underserved by public transportation, and cybersecurity. Establish new exemptions for motor vehicle safety standards to make easier the development or field evaluation of highly automated vehicles. The legislation includes important safety provisions, including requiring the submission of safety assessment certifications by manufacturers of HAVs and requiring NHTSA to initiate a rulemaking to develop new HAV standards. The legislation also requires manufacturers to develop a written cybersecurity plan that includes vulnerability detection and response practices and a process for controlling access to automated driving systems.
09.04.2017	DEARBORN, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement in celebration of Labor Day. “On Labor Day, we celebrate the contributions working men and women have made to the American economy and to the strength and well-being of our country. “In Michigan, home of the modern labor movement, we know the hard-fought victories labor won for all of us – better wages, safer working conditions, a 40-hour work week, health care and retirement benefits, safe nurse to patient ratios and classrooms that aren’t overcrowded. The battles fought and won by labor improved the well-being and standard of living not just for their members, but for all who labor. We must never take these gains for granted. “At a time when unions are undermined and under attack, we must stand in solidarity with working men and women across this country. We need to fight for policies that keep good-paying jobs in this country, grow manufacturing and level the playing field on trade; we need policies that raise wages, address income inequality and ensure that the pensions working men and women have paid into their entire working lives are protected. We will never stop working toward these goals. “On Labor Day, I will march side by side with my brothers and sisters in downtown Detroit, as I have for decades. I will renew my promise to fight for working men and women every single day and thank labor for what they continue to do for all of us – for all boats rise with a strong labor movement.”
09.04.2017	DEARBORN, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement on reports that President Trump will end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals Program (DACA). "The reports that President Trump will end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals Program, or DACA, are heartbreaking for the individuals who came to this country as children and for the businesses, universities and communities that benefit from their contributions every day. "These young people were brought here through no fault of their own. America is their home and DACA has allowed them to become hardworking, contributing members of our society – offering their talents to the workforce and paying taxes that go toward improving our health care, infrastructure and other critical services. Regardless of whether they earn a college degree, work on a farm or in a restaurant, or are raising a family, they deserve the opportunity to apply for permanent resident status, and ultimately citizenship, and not be ripped from their families and the lives they know. "In light of these reports, Congress must come together with businesses, universities, and lawmakers of both parties to protect these individuals. This is not only the right thing for these young people, but for our country and our economic competitiveness – now and in the future."
08.31.2017	DEARBORN, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) again called for a comprehensive study of the Enbridge Line 5 pipelines following reports that protective coating is missing in at least two areas, putting the integrity of the pipelines at risk. “Twenty-three million gallons of oil flow through the pipelines in the Straits of Mackinac every day,” said Dingell. “A pipeline rupture in this area would be devastating for the Great Lakes environment and economy, and that is simply a risk we cannot afford to take. Congress must immediately act on legislation Congressman Dave Trott and I introduced to require a thorough and comprehensive study of the pipelines. If Line 5 is found to be unsafe, it should be shut down. We cannot afford to wait.” Dingell and Trott have long called for a comprehensive study of Line 5. Their bipartisan legislation, the Preserve Our Lakes and Keep our Environment Safe (LAKES) Act, would require the Administrator of the Pipeline and Hazardous Material Safety Administration (PHMSA) to terminate the operation of Enbridge’s Line 5 should a 12-month comprehensive study required by the legislation find the pipeline poses a significant risk. In February, Dingell and Trott sent a letter to U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Scott Pruitt urging him to expedite review of Enbridge’s work plan and inspection schedule for Line 5. The work plan listed numerous locations on the pipeline where the protective coating may be weakening or missing. That letter can be read here.
08.31.2017	ANN ARBOR, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and State Representatives Adam Zemke, Yousef Rabhi and Donna Lasinski held a town hall tonight in Ann Arbor to discuss the Gelman dioxane plume and next steps for the community. The Representatives were joined by Mitch Adelman and Kevin Lund from the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality (MDEQ) to provide an update on remediation efforts, as well as Roger Rayle, chair of the Coalition for Action on Remediation of Dioxane (CARD). “We convened this town hall because it is critical for the community to have an opportunity to ask questions and voice concerns about the dioxane plume and get an update from the MDEQ directly,” said Dingell. “We must explore all options available to ensure this contamination is properly remediated and families and the environment are protected. We are committed to working together toward this goal.” “It is critical that residents are updated on the government’s progress regarding the plume, so that concerns around drinking water reflect the reality of the situation,” said Zemke. "Our community has struggled with this issue for decades,” said Rabhi. “It is thanks to the efforts of local activists and consistent community leadership that state regulators are finally acting. I hope that by coming together at this town hall we can prompt swift and effective action to clean up our groundwater." “The Pall-Gelman plume continues to pose safety threats and drain property values, and, for decades, it has been a constant battle to make the polluter pay for this critical cleanup,” said Lasinski. “As state representative for the district where the plume originated, and as a mother who has raised her family a stone’s throw from the deepest part of the plume, I firmly believe we need to ensure this pollution is cleaned up as soon as possible.” The Gelman dioxane plume has been spreading through the groundwater in Ann Arbor for decades after an irresponsible business practice by Gelman Sciences, now owned by Pall Life Sciences, allowed the toxic chemical into the ground. Dingell, Zemke, Rabhi and Lasinski held the town hall to ensure the public is properly informed as efforts to remediate the plume move forward.
08.30.2017	DEARBORN, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and State Representative Abdullah Hammoud today held a town hall in Dearborn to answer questions and discuss issues that matter to the community. This is the second town hall Dingell and Hammoud have teamed up on this year to provide an update on legislative issues in Washington and Lansing and hear from members of the community. “As Congress prepares to return to Washington next week, it is critical that we hear the ideas and concerns of the people we represent,” said Dingell. “These are turbulent times, and it is important to listen, learn, address problems and come together to find solutions. From working to ensure quality affordable health care for every American, to standing up for civil rights and ensuring every individual who wants a good job can find one, we are committed to working diligently to address the issues we heard tonight. We know that we are one community and we are all in this together.” “Getting feedback from residents is one of the most important aspects of being a legislator,” said Hammoud. “This town hall was a great way to hear concerns from the community, as well as possible solutions. I look forward to taking this input to Lansing to better serve Dearborn and the State of Michigan.” More than 100 members of the community joined Dingell and Hammoud for the town hall tonight at Edsel Ford High School in Dearborn. For photos of the event, please click here and here.
08.25.2017	DETROIT, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today joined the 2017 Autonomous Vehicle Summit in Detroit to discuss the future of mobility and automated vehicle legislation she is working to advance through the House of Representatives. In July, the House Energy and Commerce Committee voted unanimously to approve the SELF DRIVE Act which supports the development and deployment of automated vehicles. “Driverless technology is going to be developed whether we like it or not, and the question before us is whether the United States is going to be the international leader in this area,” said Dingell. “It is critical that we have a strong, flexible regulatory framework for automated vehicles that protects consumers and puts safety first, but also keeps up with the pace of rapidly changing technology. Here in Michigan we’ve been working long and hard to launch the American Center for Mobility in Ypsilanti, and know that enacting federal legislation like the SELF DRIVE Act is imperative to reshaping American innovation for generations to come and ensuring the U.S. remains at the forefront of advanced vehicle technology.” Dingell was joined by Allison Drutchas, Autonomous Vehicles Counsel at General Motors, for a conversation about how the SELF DRIVE Act addresses automated vehicle testing and regulation, as well as cybersecurity, data privacy and security. The SELF DRIVE Act clarifies the federal and state roles for regulating highly automated vehicles (HAVs) to encourage the testing, development and deployment of HAVs in the United States. It includes language from five bills introduced by Dingell that: Create a Federal Advisory Committee within the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) with subcommittees to examine: mobility access for the disabled community, mobility access for senior citizens and populations underserved by public transportation, and cybersecurity. Establish new exemptions for motor vehicle safety standards to make easier the development or field evaluation of highly automated vehicles The legislation includes important safety provisions, including requiring the submission of safety assessment certifications by manufacturers of HAVs and requiring NHTSA to initiate a rulemaking to develop new HAV standards. The legislation also requires manufacturers to develop a written cybersecurity plan that includes vulnerability detection and response practices and a process for controlling access to automated driving systems.
08.21.2017	DEARBORN, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement on President Trump’s address on the Afghanistan War. “As we enter the 16th consecutive year with American troops still in harm’s way, our servicemembers and their families deserve clarity on the future of our mission. President Trump’s address did not outline clear metrics for achieving victory or measuring success. It is our collective obligation to support our servicemembers’ enduring sacrifice with a renewed and robust debate about the war here at home. The war in Afghanistan was authorized under President George Bush before many members of Congress even contemplated running for the offices they hold today. When Congress returns in September we must take up this important debate, including a serious discussion about how to reach bipartisan consensus on a new authorization for the use of military force. This is critical to providing our servicemembers and their families the certainty they deserve.”
08.21.2017	SALINE, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and U.S. Congressman Tim Walberg (MI-07) today joined Washtenaw Sheriff Jerry Clayton for a town hall discussion on the opioid crisis and mental health in Washtenaw County. The Sheriff and Representatives were joined by community leaders and health experts to answer questions and discuss federal, state and local efforts to address the opioid epidemic, substance use disorders and other key issues. “Tonight we came together to declare war on an epidemic in our community – opioid addiction,” said Congresswoman Dingell. “I spent my childhood living with people caught in this nightmare and know the impact on families firsthand. We lost my sister to addiction and eventually a drug overdose. This devastating disease is destroying too many families in Michigan and across the country and I am deeply committed to helping find answers to this nightmare. At the same time, we must be careful to not stigmatize those with real and legitimate needs. That is why this conversation is so important. This town hall is about listening to people’s stories and their concerns, learning about the impact and working together to find solutions.” “Opioid addiction hits close to home for so many families and communities in Michigan,” said Congressman Walberg. “We must continue to work in a bipartisan way to foster greater awareness, encourage best practices, and promote collaboration to tackle this growing crisis. As part of this effort, tonight’s town hall brought the community together for an important conversation about how we can reverse the trends of the opioid epidemic.” "Mental Health disability and Substance Use disorder, especially an addiction to opioids, present significant challenges in our community. But not as difficult as the challenges these conditions present to so many individuals and families in Washtenaw County and across the nation,” said Sheriff Clayton. “Developing comprehensive and sustainable solutions are required and will not be easy. We cannot continue to wait for someone else to provide all the answers. We as a community must commit to engaging in challenging conversations and working together for the singular purpose of creating systems that provides proactive services, helps eliminate stigma, and supports individuals suffering from a mental health disability or a substance use disorder. Hopefully tonight's conversation moves us closer to that reality." Dingell, Walberg and Sheriff Clayton were joined at the town hall by State Representative Adam Zemke; Saline Mayor Brian Marl; Glynis Anderson, Founder and CEO of Home of New Vision; Marci Scalera, Director of the Lenawee/Livingston/Washtenaw Substance Abuse Coordinating Agency; Marlene Radzik, Police Services Division Commander at Washtenaw County Sheriff’s Office; Ellen Rabinowitz, Health Officer at Washtenaw County Public Health; Dr. Sarah Bur, Addiction Specialist at St. Joseph Health Systems; and Dr. Tim Florence, Medical Director at Washtenaw County Community Mental Health. In 2015, Michigan had the 15th highest rate of death due to drug overdose in the U.S. with 1,980 lives lost. In 2016, there were 11 million opioid prescriptions filled in Michigan, more than the population of the entire state. Earlier this year, Dingell and Walberg introduced Jessie’s Law to help solve one piece of the puzzle. The bipartisan bill, named after Michigan resident Jessie Grubb who tragically died of an opioid overdose last year, would ensure doctors have access to a consenting patient’s prior history of addiction in order to make fully informed care and treatment decisions. Providing this information would help prevent cases like Jessie’s, where a recovering addict in Ann Arbor was unknowingly prescribed and discharged with a powerful opioid that led to her death.
08.18.2017	DEARBORN, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement on the terror attacks in Barcelona, Spain. “Today's attack in Barcelona, Spain is another reminder of the presence of evil amongst us and innocent lives lost after a senseless act of terror. My thoughts and prayers are with the victims and their families, and we stand united with our friends in Spain and across the globe in denouncing terrorism wherever it threatens freedom, democracy, and peace. We cannot let fear and hatred divide us, and instead must stand united in defeating evil in all forms.”
08.17.2017	DETROIT, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today joined Friends of the Detroit River, Michigan Sea Grant, and other project partners to celebrate the hard work and dedication of those who have helped shape a new future for the Detroit River. The restoration projects highlighted included a tour of Stony Island near Grosse Ile, where work is being done to counteract wetland loss on land that is critical to fish, waterfowl and migratory birds, and Belle Isle where nearly 300 acres of habitat have been restored. “Today, thanks to dedicated community partners, and with the critical help of the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, waters in our region have been completely transformed,” said Dingell. “In the Detroit River, wildlife habitats have been restored, eagles have come back and native fish populations have grown. We cannot take this progress for granted. The Great Lakes are a way of life – they represent more than 20 percent of the world’s freshwater and are critical for our economy and thousands of jobs. We must commit to continuing to protect this precious natural resource and instill in future generations the importance of continued environmental stewardship.” At 28 miles long, the Detroit River serves as one of the busiest waterways in the world connecting Lake St. Clair and the Upper Great Lakes to Lake Erie. It also serves as an international border with Canada and is home to the only international wildlife refuge in North America.
08.17.2017	DEARBORN, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today released the following statement on the passing of former U.S. Congressman Vern Ehlers. “Congressman Ehlers was an esteemed congressman and respected educator who served our Michigan community with honor and integrity. He was one of the few scientists in Congress and earned a reputation for his measured, common-sense voice. Vern changed Michigan for the better through his years of service, and while he will be greatly missed, his legacy lives on in the lives he touched and the policies he championed. John and I were honored to call Vern a friend, and our prayers are with his family during this difficult time.”
08.16.2017	DEARBORN, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today toured the UAW-Ford Technical Training Center facility to highlight a new economic agenda called “A Better Deal: Better Jobs, Better Wages, Better Future” and met with leaders to discuss their one of a kind apprenticeship program. The UAW-Ford Joint Apprentice Program prepares individuals to become certified Skilled Tradespersons, and upon completion, provides a way for new graduates to achieve higher pay and additional career opportunities. “We need to do everything we can to address the challenges facing working men and women and ensure they’re getting the skills they need to succeed in the 21st century economy,” said Dingell. “This joint effort by the UAW and Ford is a model for how apprenticeship programs can grow opportunity for American workers and close the jobs and skills gap that workers and businesses are facing, and it is my hope that similar programs are implemented across Michigan and the rest of the country. Michigan is home of much of the modern labor movement, and we know how critical these programs are to strengthening our workforce and growing opportunity for all Americans.” “A Better Deal” agenda centers on three key goals: raising the wages and incomes of American workers and creating millions of good-paying jobs, lowering the cost of living for families and building an economy that gives working Americans the tools to succeed in the 21st century economy, including through expanded apprenticeship programs. Over 5 million Americans don’t have a job but want one, and another 5 million people are working part-time jobs instead of good-paying, full-time jobs. Training workers for jobs that are available and giving employers a role in job training ensures that workers are prepared with the tools and skills they need to get a job in our changing economy.
08.16.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – In advance of the first negotiating round of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and U.S. Congressman Bill Pascrell (NJ-09), Democratic Ranking Member on the Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee, today led a letter to U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) Robert Lighthizer urging an open and transparent trade negotiating process. The letter, signed by 52 Members of Congress, calls on the Administration to lay out clearly an open and transparent negotiating process that includes meaningful access for members of Congress and their staff. The Administration has not issued its own guidelines governing the negotiation process; this letter asks for clarity on their intentions ahead of the August 16th negotiating round and increased transparency going forward. “Transparency and consultation with Congress are critical to establishing support for U.S. trade policies. Yet the Administration has still not publicly stated its views on a range of issues and, to our knowledge, has not appointed a Chief Transparency Officer at USTR, as required by statute,” the Representatives wrote. “With the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) renegotiation set to begin this month, the urgency to determine the Administration’s stance has only grown. The NAFTA renegotiation will not be successful if the Administration does not consult meaningfully with Congress in an open and transparent process. We call on the Administration, in consultation with Congress, to develop and implement such a process immediately.” The letter calls on the Administration to develop high standard transparency policies regarding: Access to negotiating texts for Congressional staff; Access to negotiating texts for members of the trade advisory committees; Access to particular types of negotiating texts (including labor action plans); Access to the final text of an agreement; Access to U.S. negotiating proposals; and The role of the Chief Transparency Officer within USTR. “Moving forward, we look forward to working with you and your staff to ensure that Members of Congress, their staff, advisory committee members, and the public are provided with the most meaningful access possible to negotiating documents,” the Representatives continued. “As the legitimacy of trade negotiations has come under more intense scrutiny in the United States and across the world, we believe that it is in all parties’ interest to ensure that consultations and transparency provisions are as robust as possible.” In addition to Dingell and Pascrell, the letter was signed by Representatives Steve Cohen (TN-09), Peter DeFazio (OR-04), Rosa DeLauro (CT-03), Suzan DelBene (WA-01), Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11), Tulsi Gabbard (HI-02), Raul Grijalva (AZ-03), Brian Higgins (NY-26), Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC), Hank Johnson (GA-04), Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Ro Khanna (CA-17), Dan Kildee (MI-05), Barbara Lee (CA-13), John Lewis (GA-05), Dan Lipinski (IL-03), Betty McCollum (MN-04), Jim McGovern (MA-02), Jerry McNerney (CA-09), Seth Moulton (MA-06), Jerry Nadler (NY-10), Rick Nolan (MN-08), Tom O'Halleran (AZ-01), Frank Pallone (NJ-06), Donald M. Payne, Jr. (NJ-10), Mark Pocan (WI-02), Tim Ryan (OH-13), Linda Sanchez (CA-38), Jan Schakowsky (IL-09), Terri Sewell (AL-07), Carol Shea-Porter (NY-01), Brad Sherman (CA-30), Louise Slaughter (NY-25), Paul Tonko (NY-20), Nydia Velazquez (NY-07), Judy Chu (CA-27), Danny K. Davis (IL-07), Donald Norcross (NJ-01), David Cicilline (RI-01), José Serrano (NY-15), Joe Crowley (NY-14), Colleen Hanabusa (HI-01), Dwight Evans (PA-02), Bobby Scott (VA-03), John Larson (CT-01), Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18), Peter Welch (VT-AL), Luis Gutiérrez (IL-04), Mike Doyle (PA-14), Adriano Espaillat (NY-13). The full letter can be read here and below. August 16, 2017 The Honorable Robert Lighthizer United States Trade Representative 600 17th Street, NW Washington, DC 20508 Dear Ambassador Lighthizer: Transparency and consultation with Congress are critical to establishing support for U.S. trade policies. Yet the Administration has still not publicly stated its views on a range of issues and, to our knowledge, has not appointed a Chief Transparency Officer at USTR, as required by statute. With the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) renegotiation set to begin this month, the urgency to determine the Administration’s stance has only grown. The NAFTA renegotiation will not be successful if the Administration does not consult meaningfully with Congress in an open and transparent process. We call on the Administration, in consultation with Congress, to develop and implement such a process immediately. As you know, the Bipartisan Congressional Trade Priorities and Accountability Act of 2015 (TPA) required the United States Trade Representative (USTR) to “develop written guidelines on enhanced coordination with Congress.” Guidelines published in 2015 fell short of our expectations on a number of key issues, and USTR leadership must do more to ensure a truly transparent process. Fortunately, the 2015 guidelines provide for modification, and I strongly urge you to modify, at minimum, the areas outlined below. Congressional Staff Access to Text: The guidelines allow the personal staff of Members who are on a committee of jurisdiction (the Committee on Ways & Means in the House and the Committee on Finance in the Senate) to review negotiation texts without their Member of Congress present. All other staff members can only review text with their Member present. We believe all staff members with appropriate security clearances should be able to review the negotiating proposals and the consolidated text of an agreement without their Member present. Requiring a Member to be present has and will continue to limit the ability of personal office staff to review the text, particularly during August, when the NAFTA re-negotiation is set to begin. The start of negotiations is one of the most important stages of a negotiation as parties develop their formal positions. Beyond the practical reality that most members of Congress will be working in their districts in August and therefore unable to accompany their staff to review the materials, requiring a Member’s presence during staff review of text is an unnecessary restriction. Obtaining a security clearance should sufficiently demonstrate that staff members are trustworthy and aware of the gravity and sensitivity of the documents. Furthermore, staff members are also required to sign a non-disclosure agreement, and there are penalties for violating those agreements. Given the checks already in place, requiring a Member to be present is a needless burden that impedes the ability of Members of Congress to effectively exercise their constitutionally-protected role in regulating commerce with foreign countries. Advisory Committees: The guidelines fall short of our expectations with respect to advisory committees’ access to negotiating proposals and the consolidated text during negotiations. The advisory committee system was established decades ago, by Act of Congress, to ensure that the U.S. government was getting much-needed input directly from stakeholders regarding “overall negotiating objectives and positions of the United States and other parties” (Trade Act of 1974, Sec. 135(i)(2)). Without access to the full negotiating texts or the negotiating positions of the other parties, the advisory committees cannot effectively advise the Administration regarding the substance of an agreement. In our view, the advisory committees need access to the consolidated text throughout the negotiations in order to provide meaningful feedback and fulfill their statutory purpose. Further, the membership of the advisory committee system itself is in dire need of reform. The Administration should ensure that the industry trade advisory committees system includes diverse stakeholders with a wider range of views. Access to Particular Texts: The consultation guidelines do little to clarify USTR’s position regarding texts relevant to negotiations but not technically considered proposals or part of the consolidated text. These texts often contain critical information concerning the negotiations and can include labor action plans and documents related to a trading partner’s non-conforming measures. We strongly believe that Congress and the advisory committees should have access to all documents related to the negotiations of a trade agreement. The Administration should clarify this issue. Access to Final Text of Agreement: The consultation guidelines do not explicitly order USTR to provide Congress or the advisory committees with the text of an agreement before the President notifies Congress of the intent to enter into an agreement. The Administration should explicitly resolve this issue and provide access prior to notification. Access to U.S. Negotiating Proposals: The Administration should strongly consider publishing U.S. proposals in trade negotiations. The European Union has brought this level of transparency to its stakeholders, with little negative effect, if any, on the negotiations. Given the significant interest and impact on domestic stakeholders and the potential benefit of the increased transparency, at a minimum, the Administration should conduct an independent study regarding the costs and benefits of such a proposal. Chief Transparency Officer: USTR does not appear to have adopted any noteworthy changes to its policies related to transparency. Created in 2015, the Chief Transparency Officer position should be filled immediately by someone whose sole function is to fulfill the position’s statutory responsibilities. Moving forward, we look forward to working with you and your staff to ensure that Members of Congress, their staff, advisory committee members, and the public are provided with the most meaningful access possible to negotiating documents. As the legitimacy of trade negotiations has come under more intense scrutiny in the United States and across the world, we believe that it is in all parties’ interest to ensure that consultations and transparency provisions are as robust as possible. Sincerely,
08.15.2017	YPSILANTI, MI – After working hand in hand to advance automated vehicle legislation through the House Energy and Commerce Committee in July, U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and U.S. Congressman Bob Latta (OH-05), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Digital Commerce and Consumer Protection, today toured the American Center for Mobility at Willow Run (ACM) to learn about the groundbreaking work taking place on automated vehicle testing, evaluation and standard setting. The Representatives were joined by ACM President John Maddox to discuss ways to support the safe deployment of automated vehicles and how the SELF DRIVE Act will impact the future of mobility in the United States and save lives on the road. “This is critical time in the history of the auto industry,” said Dingell. “Highly automated vehicles will transform transportation as we know it with the promise of saving lives, improving mobility for seniors and the disabled community, and reducing congestion on our roads – but only if we in Congress get it right. I was proud to work with Congressman Latta and my colleagues to advance the bipartisan SELF DRIVE Act last month. It’s critical that we continue to engage with experts at ACM and all stakeholders to ensure we’re a building a regulatory framework that first and foremost protects consumers, but also keeps the U.S. at the forefront of innovation and technology. Automated vehicles are going to be developed whether we like it or not – the only question is where and by whom. We want this next wave of innovation to take place here in the United States, and we look forward to continuing to work with ACM and all partners to ensure we stay in the driver’s seat.” “Self-driving cars have the potential to make our roads safer and improve quality of life,” said Latta. “Facilities like the American Center for Mobility will prove essential to the development, testing, and deployment of autonomous vehicles as these controlled environments help produce cars that can reduce traffic fatalities and improve mobility. That’s why I worked with Rep. Dingell to develop the necessary federal framework we need to allow our innovators to bring this technology to our roadways. In addition, Ohio and Michigan are perfectly positioned to benefit from the economic boost and jobs that this new technology will bring to the region.” In 2015, over 35,000 people died on our roadways and early estimates indicate the number could rise to over 40,000 in 2016. NHTSA estimates that 94 percent of highway crashes are due to human error. The development of automated vehicles has the potential to significantly reduce traffic fatalities in the United States. The bipartisan SELF DRIVE Act, which passed the Energy and Commerce Committee by a 54-0 vote, clarifies the federal and state roles for regulating highly automated vehicles (HAVs) to encourage the testing, development and deployment of HAVs in the United States. The legislation includes important safety provisions, including requiring the submission of safety assessment certifications by manufacturers of HAVs and requiring NHTSA to initiate a rulemaking to develop new HAV standards. The legislation also requires manufacturers to develop a written cybersecurity plan that includes vulnerability detection and response practices and a process for controlling access to automated driving systems. As one of 10 automated vehicle proving grounds in the country designated by the Department of Transportation, ACM is leading the way to ensure government, business and academia are all working in concert to ensure the safe deployment of automated vehicles.
08.15.2017	Dearborn, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today announced that the City of Dearborn Fire Department will receive a $1,795,092 staffing grant through the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) Fiscal Year 2016 Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) program. The grant will support the hiring of firefighters and the recruitment and retention of volunteer staff to enhance the department’s ability to maintain a 24-hour firefighting force. “Our firefighters go to work every day prepared to put their lives on the line to protect our community,” said Dingell. “This grant will ensure that the City of Dearborn Fire Department is properly staffed to serve its residents without overextending its firefighters.” “I am very appreciative of Congresswoman Dingell’s hard work in securing these funds,” said Dearborn Fire Chief Joseph Murray. “This grant will help grow our department staff and ensure our firefighters are prepared to protect our community.” The SAFER grant program provides funding to help recipients maintain 24-hour fire department staffing and more effectively protect the health and safety of the public and emergency response personnel with respect to fire and all other hazards.
08.15.2017	YPSILANTI, MI – After working hand in hand to advance automated vehicle legislation through the House Energy and Commerce Committee in July, U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and U.S. Congressman Bob Latta (OH-05), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Digital Commerce and Consumer Protection, today toured the American Center for Mobility at Willow Run (ACM) to learn about the groundbreaking work taking place on automated vehicle testing, evaluation and standard setting. The Representatives were joined by ACM President John Maddox to discuss ways to support the safe deployment of automated vehicles and how the SELF DRIVE Act will impact the future of mobility in the United States and save lives on the road. “This is critical time in the history of the auto industry,” said Dingell. “Highly automated vehicles will transform transportation as we know it with the promise of saving lives, improving mobility for seniors and the disabled community, and reducing congestion on our roads – but only if we in Congress get it right. I was proud to work with Congressman Latta and my colleagues to advance the bipartisan SELF DRIVE Act last month. It’s critical that we continue to engage with experts at ACM and all stakeholders to ensure we’re a building a regulatory framework that first and foremost protects consumers, but also keeps the U.S. at the forefront of innovation and technology. Automated vehicles are going to be developed whether we like it or not – the only question is where and by whom. We want this next wave of innovation to take place here in the United States, and we look forward to continuing to work with ACM and all partners to ensure we stay in the driver’s seat.” “Self-driving cars have the potential to make our roads safer and improve quality of life,” said Latta. “Facilities like the American Center for Mobility will prove essential to the development, testing, and deployment of autonomous vehicles as these controlled environments help produce cars that can reduce traffic fatalities and improve mobility. That’s why I worked with Rep. Dingell to develop the necessary federal framework we need to allow our innovators to bring this technology to our roadways. In addition, Ohio and Michigan are perfectly positioned to benefit from the economic boost and jobs that this new technology will bring to the region.” In 2015, over 35,000 people died on our roadways and early estimates indicate the number could rise to over 40,000 in 2016. NHTSA estimates that 94 percent of highway crashes are due to human error. The development of automated vehicles has the potential to significantly reduce traffic fatalities in the United States. The bipartisan SELF DRIVE Act, which passed the Energy and Commerce Committee by a 54-0 vote, clarifies the federal and state roles for regulating highly automated vehicles (HAVs) to encourage the testing, development and deployment of HAVs in the United States. The legislation includes important safety provisions, including requiring the submission of safety assessment certifications by manufacturers of HAVs and requiring NHTSA to initiate a rulemaking to develop new HAV standards. The legislation also requires manufacturers to develop a written cybersecurity plan that includes vulnerability detection and response practices and a process for controlling access to automated driving systems. As one of 10 automated vehicle proving grounds in the country designated by the Department of Transportation, ACM is leading the way to ensure government, business and academia are all working in concert to ensure the safe deployment of automated vehicles. For a photo, please click here.
08.09.2017	WOODHAVEN, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and State Representative Darrin Camilleri today held a town hall meeting to discuss access to quality health care in Michigan and across the country and answer questions from constituents. “The American people are sending a clear message to policymakers in Washington and at the state level that they want Democrats, Republicans and Independents to work together in a bipartisan manner to fix what is broken in the healthcare system and lower costs,” said Dingell. “It is my hope that conversations like this, which are taking place across the country, will encourage Congressional leadership to seek bipartisan solutions for the American people. As I have repeatedly said, this isn't a war of words; it's real people's lives. We need to work together under regular order to fix what’s not working in the ACA and give people peace of mind that the provisions that do work – the provisions families depend upon – are protected.” “Healthcare is one of the top issues I hear from constituents about, and rightfully so—between the various proposals to change our health care system, tens of millions of people would stand to lose their coverage,” said Camilleri. “We have a plan to stop that. Our Michigan Health Care Bill of Rights will ensure that seniors, people with pre-existing conditions and others can still access quality, affordable health care. I am glad so many Downriver residents were able to share their concerns and have their questions addressed at tonight’s event.” Dingell and Camilleri were joined by Mary Zatina, Senior Vice President for Government Relations and Community Affairs at Beaumont Health and Dawn Kettinger, Director of Government Affairs with the Michigan Nurses Association to discuss the latest developments in the health care debate and ways to protect and improve care in Michigan and across the country, including continuing cost-sharing reduction payments, which make health care affordable for millions of Americans. Over the course of a few months, Congressional Republicans proposed a total of six different bills to repeal the Affordable Care Act. Each proposal would have taken health care away from millions of Americans and raised costs for millions more. The proposals would have eliminated protections for those with pre-existing conditions, re-instated lifetime caps, ended Healthy Michigan, and dramatically cut Medicaid, which provides critical services for children, those with disabilities and seniors with long-term care needs. With repeal legislation defeated, Dingell and Camilleri said lawmakers need to focus on improving the ACA to lower costs, improve quality, and expand coverage, while strengthening stability in the Marketplaces.
08.07.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell released the following statement after the Trump Administration released the Brandon Road Lock and Dam Study, which provides critical new information on options for implementing Asian carp control measures to protect the Great Lakes. Dingell and her colleagues have repeatedly urged the administration to release the study, which has been delayed since February 28, 2017. “With the discovery of a live silver carp only nine miles from Lake Michigan in June, this study should have been made public far sooner. Asian carp have the potential to decimate the waters we all love and depend upon, as well as our region’s $7 billion fishing and $16 billion boating industries. We cannot afford to wait to combat this threat. This long-overdue study is critical to getting a full understanding of our options to stop this destructive force. We need to review its recommendations in detail and have a full and robust public comment period, then work to immediately implement measures that will ensure Asian carp never enter the Great Lakes.” In June, Dingell and Congressman Fred Upton (MI-06) wrote a bipartisan letter to President Trump, signed by all 14 Members of the Michigan House delegation, urging the administration to immediately release the study. Representatives from the Great Lakes states also wrote the White House in March asking them to reverse the decision to delay the report.
08.04.2017	DEARBORN, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) is using the August District Work Period to stay in touch with what is on her constituents’ minds. Over the next week, she will hold 10 Congress in Your Community events to meet and talk with people in Michigan’s 12th District. The events coincide with National Farmers Market Week, which runs from August 6-12, 2017. Congress in Your Community allows Dingell to talk directly with members of the community at their local markets about their issues and concerns. It is also an opportunity for constituents to take advantage of the services provided through Dingell’s office. Constituents across the 12th District are welcome to attend and no appointment is necessary. For questions or additional information, please call Dingell’s Dearborn office at 313-278-2936. Dingell will continue to hold these events throughout the summer. Friday, August 4, 2017 WHAT: Dingell to host Congress in Your Community in Allen Park WHEN: 3-4 p.m., Friday, August 4 WHERE: Allen Park Farmers Market, 6601 Allen Rd., Allen Park Monday, August 7, 2017 WHAT: Dingell to host Congress in Your Community in Trenton WHEN: 4-5:15 p.m., Monday, August 7 WHERE: Trenton Farmers Market, 2427 West Rd., Trenton Tuesday, August 8, 2017 WHAT: Dingell to host Congress in Your Community in Ypsilanti WHEN: 4-5:30 p.m., Tuesday, August 8 WHERE: Ypsilanti Growing Hope Market, 16 South Washington St., Ypsilanti Wednesday, August 9, 2017 WHAT: Dingell to host Congress in Your Community in Gibraltar WHEN: 2:30-4 p.m., Wednesday, August 9 WHERE: Gibraltar Farmers Market, Boblo Pavilion outside the community center, 29340 S. Gibraltar Rd., Gibraltar Thursday, August 10, 2017 WHAT: Dingell to host Congress in Your Community in Pittsfield WHEN: 3-4:30 p.m., Thursday, August 10 WHERE: Pittsfield Farmers Market, 6201 W. Michigan Ave., Ann Arbor -- WHAT: Dingell to host Congress in Your Community in Ann Arbor’s Westside WHEN: 5-6:30 p.m., Thursday, August 10 WHERE: Westside Farmers Market, 2501 Jackson Rd., Ann Arbor Friday August 11, 2017 WHAT: Dingell to host Congress in Your Community in Dearborn WHEN: 10:30 a.m. – 12 p.m., Friday, August 11 WHERE: Dearborn Farmers & Artisans Market, 22100 Michigan Ave., Dearborn -- WHAT: Dingell to host Congress in Your Community in Taylor WHEN: 1-2:30 p.m., Friday, August 11 WHERE: Taylor Farmers Market, 23555 Goddard Rd., Taylor -- WHAT: Dingell to host Congress in Your Community in Dixboro WHEN: 4-5:30 p.m., Friday, August 11 WHERE: Dixboro Farmers Market, 5221 Church Rd., Ann Arbor Saturday, August 12, 2017 WHAT: Dingell to host Congress in Your Community in Ann Arbor WHEN: 8-9:30 a.m., Saturday, August 12 WHERE: Ann Arbor Farmers Market, 315 Detroit St., Ann Arbor
08.01.2017	ANN ARBOR, MI – Today, as part of Startup Day Across America, U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) visited local entrepreneurs at Ann Arbor SPARK and took a walking tour of local startup companies to showcase the innovation and job creation taking place in the district. Startup Day is a bipartisan effort to raise awareness about the important role startup companies play in our economy by providing local entrepreneurs with an opportunity to educate their representatives about challenges they are facing. “Fast growing startup companies are not unique to places like Silicon Valley,” Dingell said. “Across the country, in areas from health care to renewable energy to education, startups are revolutionizing the way we solve problems and Southeast Michigan is leading the way. The entrepreneurs I met with today are not only creating innovative new products and services, they’re creating jobs and contributing to the local economy. In fact, 63 percent of the companies working with Ann Arbor SPARK are hiring in 2017. Southeast Michigan is a hub for these emerging companies, and I’m committed to working with our entrepreneurs, Ann Arbor SPARK and our world-class colleges and universities to ensure we have an environment where startup companies can grow and thrive.” “The SPARK Central Innovation Center was designed to put startups in the heart of our vibrant downtown where they can attract the resources and investment they need to grow, while accessing expert services and support,” said Paul Krutko president and CEO. “Startups have an incredible impact on our economy; it’s exciting to see them committed to the Ann Arbor region from the time they plant roots to when they’ve evolved in to established businesses and are finding and hiring key employees and infusing capital in their businesses here. Startup Day is an opportunity to celebrate the role these companies play in our economic success.” Dingell kicked off the day with local entrepreneurs at the SPARK Central Innovation Center, which provides business space, services and support to help entrepreneurs launch and develop innovation-based technology. With reduced overhead costs, entrepreneurs can put more money back into growing their business. Following the visit to SPARK, Dingell was joined by Vice President Bill Mayer for a walking tour of local startup companies. Dingell visited Workit Health, a company that created the world’s first online addiction care program, and met with co-founder and CEO Lisa McLaughlin. Dingell also visited SkySpecs, where co-founders Danny Ellis and Tom Brady are developing drone technologies that are transforming the way wind, energy and other enterprises inspect and maintain critical infrastructure. "The SkySpecs team was honored to host Congresswoman Dingell at our offices to celebrate Startup Day 2017,” said Danny Ellis of SkySpecs. “Providing local entrepreneurs the opportunity to educate and interact with their representatives is a cause of which we are proud to be a part. Debbie has been and continues to be an influential supporter of SkySpecs' mission to bring automated technology to the renewable energy industry, and we are indebted to her for lending her voice both to our company and to important technological innovation across the state of Michigan.” "Workit was honored to welcome Congresswoman Debbie Dingell to our office,” said Lisa McLaughlin. “We are thrilled to have a representative as passionate about combatting addiction as we are. Workit Health looks forward to collaborating with Congresswoman Dingell in the future.” Startups add enormous value to local and national economies. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, firms less than one year old created 1.7 million jobs or 60% of total employment growth in 2015. More than half these jobs were from firms with fewer than 10 employees. These start-up companies are involved in a variety of industries, including technology, retail, healthcare, entertainment, consulting, and education. In Congress, Dingell is working to create a better climate for startups to get off the ground and grow, including investing in infrastructure, research and development and STEM education, and ensuring sustainable and usable capital is accessible to entrepreneurs.
07.31.2017	DEARBORN, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) introduced legislation to prevent the closure of any Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) regional or program office and protect thousands of jobs across the country. Dingell introduced the Recognizing the Environmental Gains in Overcoming Negligence (REGION) Act following reports that President Trump’s budget request would gut EPA and force several offices to shutter, including the U.S. EPA’s Large Lakes Research Station office on Grosse Ile and the National Vehicle and Fuel Emissions Laboratory in Ann Arbor, which employs 435 people. The Grosse Ile facility houses over a dozen Emergency Response Division employees who are tasked with responding and cleaning up environmental hazards or accidents. “Hardworking EPA employees in Ann Arbor and Grosse Ile play a vital role in protecting our communities – whether it’s reducing vehicle emissions and keeping the U.S. at the forefront of innovation or cleaning up toxic spills that threaten the health of our families and environment,” Dingell said. “We cannot afford to lose these jobs or halt the critical work taking place in these areas. This legislation will ensure that this important work continues in Michigan and at EPA offices across the country, where dedicated scientists, engineers and public servants are working every day to protect the air we breathe and the water we drink now and for the future. This must remain a top priority.” Dingell visited the Ann Arbor EPA lab in May to speak out against proposed cuts to the facility, which conducts critical research, testing, analysis and technological studies in support of the establishment and monitoring of both fuel economy and vehicle emission standards. Dingell’s legislation would also prevent the closure of the EPA Region 5 office in Chicago, which serves Michigan, Illinois, Wisconsin, Indiana, Minnesota, and Ohio and is critical to protecting the air, drinking water, and health of residents in the Great Lakes states. The legislation is cosponsored by Reps. Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Betty McCollum (MN-04), Mike Quigley (IL-05) and Bobby Rush (IL-01), Louise Slaughter (NY-25). It is a companion to legislation Senator Tammy Duckworth (IL) introduced in the Senate.
07.27.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the House Energy and Commerce Committee unanimously approved legislation introduced by U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) to make consumer confidence reports on drinking water quality more frequent and easier for every American to understand. The legislation, which advanced as part of the Drinking Water System Improvement Act, would require the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to instruct large drinking water systems to issue biannual consumer confidence reports, rather than annual, and increase the effectiveness and understandability of the reports to improve transparency and help prevent future drinking water crises. “In Michigan, the Flint water crisis still remains in all our hearts and minds. We must ensure this does not happen again in any city in America,” said Dingell. “By requiring large water systems to provide consumer confidence reports biannually, the American people will have more frequent reports on water quality, which will help identify and mitigate risks. Consumers deserve clear and immediate notifications and transparency when it comes to water quality. Providing the American people with more information and information that is easier to read will give everyone greater confidence in the water they drink.” The Drinking Water System Improvement Act would take important steps to authorize significant funding to support grants for state drinking water programs, strengthen State Revolving Loan Funds, and provide an assessment for replacing all lead contaminated pipes across the country.
07.27.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the House Energy and Commerce Committee voted unanimously to advance legislation backed by U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) that supports the development and deployment of automated vehicles. The bipartisan SELF DRIVE Act establishes a framework for the regulation of self-driving vehicles that would allow manufacturers to innovate and increase safety on the roads. The legislation now moves to the full House of Representatives for consideration. Video of today’s markup can be viewed here. “While most people think of nuts-and-bolts manufacturing when they think of Detroit, the story of our domestic auto industry is really the story of American innovation. Companies that innovated survived and those that didn’t fell by the wayside,” said Dingell. “The next chapter of American innovation is here with the development of self-driving cars. The challenge is for the United States to figure out how we can remain at the forefront of innovation and technology in the world and build a regulatory framework that first and foremost protects consumers, but is also flexible and can keep up with the pace of rapidly changing technology. It is imperative that we get this right. Today is another step toward accomplishing that goal.” In 2015, over 35,000 people died on our roadways and early estimates indicate the number could rise to over 40,000 in 2016. NHTSA estimates that 94 percent of highway crashes are due to human error. The development of automated vehicles has the potential to significantly reduce traffic fatalities in the United States. The SELF DRIVE Act clarifies the federal and state roles for regulating highly automated vehicles (HAVs) to encourage the testing, development and deployment of HAVs in the United States. It includes language from five bills introduced by Dingell that: Create a Federal Advisory Committee within the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) with subcommittees to examine: mobility access for the disabled community, mobility access for senior citizens and populations underserved by public transportation, and cybersecurity. Establish new exemptions for motor vehicle safety standards to make easier the development or field evaluation of highly automated vehicles The legislation includes important safety provisions, including requiring the submission of safety assessment certifications by manufacturers of HAVs and requiring NHTSA to initiate a rulemaking to develop new HAV standards. The legislation also requires manufacturers to develop a written cybersecurity plan that includes vulnerability detection and response practices and a process for controlling access to automated driving systems.
07.26.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12), vice chair of the House Democratic Caucus Seniors Task Force, today introduced the Medicare Hearing Aid Coverage Act of 2017 that would expand Medicare to cover hearing aids for beneficiaries. Hearing loss is the third most prevalent chronic condition in the United States, but the vast majority of seniors who need hearing aids do not get them because they cannot afford the high cost. Medicare does not currently cover hearing aids, which can range in cost from $3,000 - $7,000. “Medicare provides critical health coverage to millions of beneficiaries, but there are serious gaps in coverage that exist,” said Dingell. “Today an estimated 70 percent of Americans with hearing problems between the ages of 65 and 84 are not using hearing aids, often because they cannot afford them. This can lead to isolation, depression, and as a growing number of studies have documented, the development of Alzheimer’s and dementia. This legislation would address this issue by improving access to hearing aids and examinations. No one should feel isolated, confused or shutout from the world because they cannot afford the treatment they need.” “Aging is not a process which is limited to below the neck,” said Max Richtman, president and CEO of the National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare. “There are a lot of changes which can occur in the region of the head that may adversely impact an older person’s ability to maintain their independence and dignity. Hearing loss is one of those changes. Yet, for the average senior, affording hearing assessments and devices is out of reach due to the high costs. Without access, they are at risk for early onset dementia, loneliness, isolation and personal safety hazards. Representative Dingell’s Medicare Hearing Aid Coverage Act of 2017 is a smart solution towards closing a gap in Medicare coverage that opens up possibilities for wellness with hearing impaired seniors.” Hearing loss affects nearly 48 million Americans and, left untreated, has serious emotional, social and medical consequences for older adults. Research has shown older adults with hearing loss are 32 percent more likely to require hospitalization, face a 24 percent increased risk for cognitive impairment and increasingly suffer from isolation and depression. A 10-year longitudinal study of patients in Baltimore found that those with hearing loss had a higher probability of developing dementia, with the probability rising as the severity of the hearing loss increased. One of Dingell’s top priorities is bringing the nation’s long-term care system into the 21st Century. The Medicare Hearing Aid Coverage Act addresses one piece of the puzzle by improving access to hearing aids and related examinations. The bill also directs the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to conduct a study on insurance programs that provide services to help with hearing loss. The Medicare Hearing Aid Coverage Act is cosponsored by Reps. Rosa DeLauro (CT-03), Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Derek Kilmer (WA-06), Doris Matsui (CA-06), Betty McCollum (MN-04), Kathleen Rice (NY-04), Jan Schakowsky (IL-09) and Louise Slaughter (NY-25).
07.25.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell statement after the Senate voted to advance legislation to repeal the Affordable Care Act (ACA). “Today’s vote to advance the Senate Trumpcare bill is a vote to take health care from tens of millions of Americans and shatter the protections they depend upon. “Each version of this proposal has been meaner than the last, putting at risk protections for pre-existing conditions, raising costs, reinstating lifetime caps, and putting quality affordable health care even further out of reach for American families. “I urge Republican Senators to stand up for their constituents and oppose the final version of this bill. It’s time for Republicans and Democrats to work together to improve health care for every American, not take it away.”
07.21.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Following reports this week that Secretary of State Rex Tillerson will shut down the State Department’s Office of the Coordinator for Cyber Issues (S/CCI), U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) led a letter joined by Reps. Kathleen Rice (NY-04), Brendan Boyle (PA-13) and 19 colleagues strongly urging Tillerson to reconsider the decision, which would leave the U.S. as the only major country without a lead cybersecurity diplomat. “It is imperative the United States continues to have a lead diplomat for cybersecurity issues, ensuring the United States remains able to work with foreign partners to fulfill its mission of promoting an open, interoperable, secure, and reliable cyberspace while continuing to deter malicious activity, bolster global cybersecurity and avoid conflict in cyberspace,” the Representatives wrote. “Cybersecurity is one area where bipartisan agreements on policy and strategy still exist. At a time when the world is more interconnected than ever and we face constant cyber threats from state actors, it is vital that we retain a high-level diplomatic role to report directly to the Secretary on global cybersecurity.” The S/CCI office plays a critical role in leading cyberspace interactions with other nations, mitigating potential conflicts, coordinating U.S. response to cyber threats, including outbreaks of ransomware, and protecting American companies from the theft of trade secrets and intellectual property. Secretary Tillerson’s proposal would fold S/CCI into the State Department’s Bureau of Economic and Business Affairs, which the Representatives note would not be able to provide the same level of expertise on cyber issues. “It is also critical to retain a direct line of communication between the S/CCI Coordinator and the Secretary to ensure that you are aware of all potential threats from abroad,” they added. In addition to Dingell, Rice and Boyle, the letter is signed by Reps. Ted Lieu (CA-33), Mike Doyle (PA-14), Steve Cohen (TN-09), Tom O'Halleran (AZ-01), Bill Keating (MA-09), Gwen Moore (WI-04), Frank Pallone, Jr. (NJ-06), Seth Moulton (MA-06), Jerry McNerney (CA-09), Kathy Castor (FL-14), Adam Schiff (CA-28), Denny Heck (WA-10), Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-02), Joe Courtney (CT-02), J. Luis Correa (CA-46), Val Demings (FL-10), Jacky Rosen (NV-03), Jim McGovern (MA-02), Keith Ellison (MN-05). The full letter is here and below. July 21, 2017 The Honorable Rex Tillerson Secretary of State 2201 C Street NW Washington, DC 20520 Dear Secretary Tillerson, This letter is in regards to recent media reports that the Department of State is planning to close the Office of Coordinator for Cyber Issues (S/CCI). We urge you to strongly reconsider this decision. It is imperative the United States continues to have a lead diplomat for cybersecurity issues, ensuring the United States remains able to work with foreign partners to fulfill its mission of promoting an open, interoperable, secure, and reliable cyberspace while continuing to deter malicious activity, bolster global cybersecurity and avoid conflict in cyberspace. The S/CCI plays a vital role in cyberspace interactions with other nations. Recently we have seen nations brazenly defying international norms in cyberspace. Continuing a dialogue with our allies and countries around the world on issues like Internet governance, responsible state behavior, curbing cybercrime, and responding to international cyber incidents makes America and cyberspace a safer place. The S/CCI also plays a key role in leading United States delegations in international cyber meetings – a role of increasing importance following daily threats to multiple segments of our economy and critical infrastructure. Additionally, with the increase in nation-state backed cyber-attacks and the heightened alert that rightfully follows, there are situations where misinterpretation of motives can quickly escalate a situation. It is becoming increasingly difficult to discern the difference between offensive and defensive behavior in cyberspace, as defensive action can easily be misconstrued as an act of aggression or vice versa. A misreading or miscalculation can lead to international strife and can further intensify conflict. The State Department and S/CCI have a key role in mitigating potential conflict in these scenarios. The importance of a harmonized and coordinated American cyber policy spans the entire global economic system. Whether it is coordinating an international response to an outbreak of ransomware, fighting Distributed Denial of Service attacks, or protecting American companies from the theft of trade secrets and intellectual property, the critical role S/CCI plays in coordinating a U.S. response with our own government agencies, the private sector, and foreign governments cannot be overstated. A strong and coordinated response to these issues will ensure American leadership in the continually changing landscape of cyberspace. Although we appreciate your efforts to streamline the State Department’s functions, it would be unwise to move S/CCI into the Bureau of Economic and Business Affairs. This office has an invaluable mission to engage with other countries on issues of economic importance, but it would not be able to provide the singular expertise on cyber issues that S/CCI does. It is also critical to retain a direct line of communication between the S/CCI Coordinator and the Secretary to ensure that you are aware of all potential threats from abroad. Cybersecurity is one area where bipartisan agreements on policy and strategy still exist. At a time when the world is more interconnected than ever and we face constant cyber threats from state actors, it is vital that we retain a high-level diplomatic role to report directly to the Secretary on global cybersecurity. We must continue to make the Internet and cyberspace a secure and stable place to communicate, do business, and engage in a free and open exchange of ideas. We know you share these goals, and therefore urge you to appoint a S/CCI Coordinator and reconsider proposals to close or reorganize the office.
07.21.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today announced that the City of Taylor Fire Department will receive a $318,182 vehicle acquisition grant through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program. The grant will allow Taylor to continue to update and improve its fire department fleet. “Our firefighters put their lives on the line every day to keep Michigan residents safe,” Dingell said. “This grant will ensure Taylor firefighters have up-to-date equipment that will allow them to safely do their jobs protecting our communities.” "I am very excited, first and foremost, for the AFG grant. We have applied for several in the past, but this was the first for vehicle acquisition, which we greatly need,” said Taylor Fire Chief Stephen Portis. “This grant will help out immensely for our city operations for firefighting.” "We are very happy to receive this AFG grant and thankful for Rep. Dingell's efforts in this area,” said Taylor Mayor Rick Sollars. “We are constantly looking at options to make our fire department fleet better.” The AFG program awards grants directly to fire departments and EMS organizations that are unaffiliated with a hospital to enhance their response capabilities and to more effectively protect the health and safety of the public and emergency response personnel with respect to fire and all other hazards.
07.20.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – For too long, U.S. trade agreements have been negotiated behind closed doors without input from the public. The Trump Administration’s vague objectives for the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) released this week indicate that these negotiations will be no different. In response, U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today introduced legislation to bring more transparency to trade talks. The Promoting Transparency in Trade Act would require the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) to publically release the text of trade deals prior to each negotiating round, publish the considered text at the conclusion of each round, and ensure the position of USTR Transparency Officer is free from conflicts of interest. “The American people deserve to have a voice in trade agreements being negotiated on their behalf,” said Dingell. “Last year, the Transpacific Partnership failed to move forward because the American people were concerned about its potential impact on American jobs and made clear that they are tired of trade deals being negotiated in secret without input from the public. We now have an opportunity to renegotiate NAFTA in a way that puts working families first. The Promoting Transparency in Trade Act will bring clarity to the process, which is currently off limits to the American people, and ensure the public – not just corporations and special interests – have a seat at the table on policies that impact their lives and economic well-being.” “Public Citizen applauds Representative Dingell for introducing the Promoting Transparency in Trade Act,” said Lori Wallach, director of Public Citizen’s Global Trade Watch. “For too long, U.S. trade deals have been crafted behind closed doors without public scrutiny. While the public and Congress have been shut out, 500 mostly corporate official U.S. trade advisors have had access to the texts. This secrecy has allowed corporate interests to hijack the trade negotiation process with disastrous results for workers, consumers and the environment. If the Trump administration intends to renegotiate the North American Free Trade Agreement to stop its ongoing damage and make it better for working people, as candidate Trump pledged, it must follow the transparency reforms in this bill.” "The need for adopting transparency principles for trade has only grown more urgent,” said Alexander B. Howard, deputy director of the Sunlight Foundation. “The legitimacy of any eventual trade agreements will be improved by informing the American people more about the positions our government is taking on our behalf, rebuilding eroded trust in a process that has been characterized by secrecy and leaks. We hope the 115th Congress sees the wisdom of taking proactive steps to open trade negotiations to the public by passing the Promoting Transparency in Trade Act." “The increasing importance of digital products and services to our economy means the rules being negotiated in trade agreements affect a more diverse group of stakeholders than ever before,” said Jeremy Malcolm, senior global policy analyst at the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF). "The current system of negotiating these agreements has failed to reflect that change, and the result has been bad rules, and a loss of public trust in the process. This bill will help to fix that problem by opening up such deals to greater public oversight, and I thank Congresswoman Dingell for introducing it.” The Promoting Transparency in Trade Act would require the USTR to publish text before and after each round of trade deal negotiations on a public website so all interested parties can see the process unfolding step by step. It would also require that USTR appoint a Transparency Officer who does not have, or appear to have, any conflict of interest in ensuring the transparency of the activities of the Office of the Trade Representative. Previously, the position has been held by the administration’s General Counsel – which is hardly an unbiased person working in the interests of transparency. In addition to Dingell, the bill is cosponsored by Reps. Rosa DeLauro (CT-03), Tim Ryan (OH-13), Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Rick Nolan (MN-08), Jamie Raskin (MD-08), Keith Ellison (MN-05), Raul Grijalva (AZ-03), John Conyers (MI-13), Jan Schakowsky (IL-09), Louise Slaughter (NY-25), Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11), Dan Lipinksi (IL-03), Chelli Pingree (ME-01), Brad Sherman (CA-30), Jim McGovern (MA-02), and Mark Pocan (WI-02).
07.19.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the House Energy and Commerce Digital Commerce and Consumer Protection (DCCP) Subcommittee voted unanimously to advance draft legislation backed by U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) to support the development and deployment of automated vehicles. The bipartisan draft bill establishes a working framework for the regulation of self-driving vehicles that would allow manufacturers to innovate and increase safety on the roads. It now moves to the full committee for consideration. Video of today’s markup can be viewed here. “With this legislation, we have the opportunity to reshape American manufacturing for decades to come,” Dingell said. “If we want the next great wave of manufacturing and R&D to take place in this country as opposed to overseas, then we need to have a strong but flexible regulatory framework for automated vehicles that always puts safety first. It is also clear that every Member, Democrats and Republicans, deeply care about cybersecurity and privacy. It is critical we get this right, and I want to thank Chairman Latta, as well as Ranking Members Schakowsky and Pallone for their hard work on this bipartisan legislation. Automated vehicles are going to be developed – the only question is where it will happen first. We want the United States to remain in the driver’s seat, and today’s draft bill is a major step in the right direction. I look forward to continuing our work toward introducing bipartisan, consensus legislation.” In 2015, over 35,000 people died on our roadways and early estimates indicate the number could rise to over 40,000 in 2016. NHTSA estimates that 94 percent of highway crashes are due to human error. The development of automated vehicles has the potential to significantly reduce traffic fatalities in the United States. The draft Highly Automated Vehicle Testing and Deployment Act of 2017 clarifies the federal and state roles for regulating highly automated vehicles (HAVs) to encourage the testing, development and deployment of HAVs in the United States. The legislation includes important safety provisions, including requiring the submission of safety assessment certifications by manufacturers of HAVs and requiring the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) to initiate a rulemaking to develop new HAV standards. The legislation also requires manufacturers to develop a written cybersecurity plan that includes vulnerability detection and response practices and a process for controlling access to automated driving systems.
07.18.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement today after Senate Republicans’ attempt to repeal the Affordable Care Act (ACA) failed to gain the votes to pass. “The Senate’s latest effort to repeal the Affordable Care Act collapsed because millions of Americans made their voices heard. With this devastating proposal off the table, it’s now time for Republicans to work with Democrats in a serious and bipartisan manner to update and improve the ACA for every American. “Repealing the ACA without a replacement is not the answer. This irresponsible proposal would send insurance markets into turmoil and result in 32 million Americans losing their health care. Similarly, continuing to undermine the Affordable Care Act and push for its failure is not a plan; it’s a non-starter. “This is not about politics. This is about real people’s lives. It is time to fix what we all know doesn’t work in the ACA and give people the peace of mind that the provisions that do work – the provisions they depend upon – will be protected. People deserve to know once and for all that their health care will be there, that Medicaid will be protected and pre-existing conditions will continue to be covered. We have a responsibility to act in the best interest of the American people. It’s time to work together to improve health care and give the American people the certainty they deserve.”
07.17.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today released the following statement after the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) released a summary of objectives for the renegotiation of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). “In states like Michigan, where the auto industry is the backbone of our economy, decades of bad trade deals have hollowed out our manufacturing base and cost too many hardworking Americans the opportunity to earn a decent living. That’s why, when President Trump made big promises on NAFTA renegotiations during the campaign – to reduce our trade deficit and create U.S. manufacturing jobs – his message resonated with the people I represent. “It’s now time to back up that talk with action. Like the administration’s original notice to Congress in May, the negotiating objectives released today are vague, short on details and fail to outline how this NAFTA renegotiation would raise wages or create new American jobs. “This agreement must be negotiated in a way that puts working Americans first, and transparency is critical. I will be working with my colleagues to ensure the American people know what is being negotiated and can determine how these policies will impact their families. I urge the administration to work with Congress on a real game plan that will make our trade deals better for working men and women and uphold President Trump’s promise to the people I represent.”
07.15.2017	DEARBORN, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today participated in presenting the family of the late Corporal Rupert Scheer with a Purple Heart for his service in the U.S. Marine Corps during World War I. After being contacted by Corporal Scheer’s family, Dingell’s office worked to secure the Purple Heart and ensure Scheer’s contributions to our country were properly honored. “It is an honor to present the family of Rupert Scheer with this deserving recognition of his service and sacrifice,” said Dingell. “It is because of individuals like Corporal Scheer, who serve this country with courage, valor and distinction, that we remain the land of the free and home of the brave. Today we honor and recognize Rupert Scheer’s heroic service and thank him and his family on behalf of a grateful state and a grateful nation.” Corporal Scheer was severely wounded while serving in France on June 30, 1918 in the aftermath of the Battle of Belleau Wood. He was awarded the Purple Heart for wounds received in action against the enemy. Today, Dingell presented the award to Corporal Scheer’s niece and closest surviving relative, Jeanette Fogarty, age 90 of Allen Park.
07.14.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) introduced legislation that would make consumer confidence reports on drinking water quality more frequent and easier for every American to understand. The Consumer Confidence Reports for Tomorrow Act would require the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to issue quarterly reports for drinking water systems, rather than annual, and increase the effectiveness and understandability of the reports to improve transparency and help prevent future drinking water crises. “We have a crisis of confidence in our drinking water systems and consumers deserve clear and immediate notification and transparency when it comes to water quality,” said Dingell. “In Michigan, where the Flint water crisis still remains in our hearts and minds, we know the importance of this more than most. With 90 percent of Americans receiving their drinking water from a public drinking water system, it is our collective responsibility to provide strong funding for modernization and continue to find effective ways to keep the public informed on the quality of their drinking water. This legislation will improve consumer notifications and transparency to help prevent future drinking water crises.” Dingell highlighted the legislation this week during a House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee markup on the Drinking Water System Improvement Act, which would take important steps to authorize significant funding to support grants for state drinking water programs, strengthen State Revolving Loan Funds, and provide an assessment for replacing all lead contaminated pipes across the country. For video please click here. Dingell’s legislation would build on the Drinking Water Systems Improvement Act by requiring quarterly reporting on water quality, improving consumer confidence reports, establishing a national consumer confidence report, and requiring EPA to maintain and keep current a searchable website providing access to consumer confidence reports, sortable by zip code and water system.
07.12.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and U.S Congressman Dan Donovan (NY-11) today introduced the bipartisan Zero Tolerance for Domestic Abusers Act, legislation that protects survivors of dating violence and stalking by closing loopholes that allow abusers and stalkers access to guns. Senator Amy Klobuchar (MN) introduced a companion bill in the Senate. “No woman should ever live in fear for her life or safety because of domestic violence,” said Dingell. “In communities across the country, too many families experience senseless tragedies that could have been prevented. This bipartisan bill makes commonsense updates to our laws to protect survivors of dating abuse and stalking, and ultimately save lives.” “When I was District Attorney, the crimes that kept me up at night were the ones that could have been prevented. There are clear warning signs – including a stalking conviction – before somebody commits serious acts of violence against a current or estranged partner,” said Donovan. “It’s common sense to keep tools of violence out of their hands. I know from experience that this legislation will save lives, and I’m proud to be a part of it.” “Guns and domestic violence are a deadly, tragic mix. Every 16 hours a woman is fatally shot in our country by an ex-spouse or intimate partner. As a nation, we should be outraged,” said Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords, co-founder of Americans for Responsible Solutions. “This bill won’t stop every act of violence, but it does represent a major step forward that will help make women and their families safer. I applaud Senator Klobuchar, Congresswoman Dingell and Congressman Donovan for putting politics aside and introducing a bipartisan proposal. I urge my former colleagues in Congress to support this responsible legislation to help keep guns out of the hands of domestic abusers and make our country a safer place to live.” The Zero Tolerance for Domestic Abusers Act makes two commonsense updates to federal law to address existing loopholes that make it easy for perpetrators of dating violence and those convicted of misdemeanor stalking to legally access guns. The bill would: Ensure people who have abused dating partners are prohibited from buying or owning firearms: Current federal law prohibits someone from owning a gun if they are convicted of abusing a spouse, someone they live with, or someone they have a child with from getting guns. But federal law does not include people who have abused a current or former dating partner. Abuse of a dating partner is as unacceptable as domestic abuse, plain and simple. Close the loophole that lets some convicted stalkers access guns: This legislation clarifies existing law to make clear that convicted stalkers cannot legally purchase a firearm. Stalking is a sadly accurate predictor of future violence. One study of female murder victims found that 76 percent of women murdered by a current or former intimate partner experienced stalking in the year preceding the murder. Since 2008, states have enacted over 40 new laws addressing the nexus of access to guns and domestic violence. This year, five states passed laws to protect domestic violence victims: Maryland, New Jersey, North Dakota, Tennessee, and Utah. In 2016, Connecticut, Hawaii, Rhode Island, Tennessee, Virginia, and Wisconsin passed similar legislation to protect women and families from abusers with guns. The Zero Tolerance for Domestic Abusers Act would make these protections the national standard. For more information on the bill, please click here.
07.06.2017	TAYLOR, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today joined Danielle Atkinson of Mothering Justice, State Representative Erika Geiss, and Michigan parents, educators and small business owners for a roundtable discussion about the urgent need for comprehensive paid leave and paid sick days programs. The event brought together a diversity of perspectives to outline solutions that will help working families, businesses and the economy. “At some point, nearly everyone will need to take time off work to care for a new baby, recover from an illness, or care for a sick or aging family member,” said Dingell. “But today, 41 million people – 36 percent of the workforce – do not have a single paid sick day, and only 14 percent have access to paid leave through their employer. For these individuals, taking time off often means choosing between a paycheck and taking care of themselves or their family. No one should have to make that choice. With people working hard to make ends meet, it’s time our national policies provide the support needed to manage the demands of work and family.” "Everyone of us has been sick, it is universal. But far too many people - when illness and economic reality meet - are forced to choose between a paycheck they need and the people they love," said Atkinson. "It's time to pass The Healthy Families Act and The FAMILY Act." “The time for earned paid sick time is long overdue,” said Geiss. “That's why I'm proud to fight for this issue every day in Lansing. The stories I hear around my district show that working people believe that no one should have to choose between taking care of an illness or work." "As a teacher, I see firsthand what happens when students come to school sick because their parents do not have the ability to stay home with them,” said Taylor Elementary School teacher Jessica Madden. “Children who are sick should be at home getting well and earned paid sick time policies will help ensure that they can." "As a restaurant owner, I believe that workers deserve paid time off when they are sick,” said Godwin Ihentuge, founder of YumVillage. “The restaurant industry has helped lead to the economic growth we are experiencing in the Detroit area and it's time that restaurant workers shared in that prosperity. Earned paid sick time policies would be a step in the right direction." "When a baby is born, we are filled with hope and a sense of pride and responsibility to provide for them. But, in reality, we don’t do enough for new mothers when it comes to paid time off to care for themselves or their children,” said doula Olivia Harper. “I support policies that give new mothers the chance to take paid time off to take a sick baby to the doctor or even a healthy baby visit." Dingell is working to address these issues in Congress by passing The Healthy Families Act and The Family and Medical Insurance Leave (FAMILY) Act to provide paid time off for individuals to recover from an illness or welcome a new child. The Healthy Families Act guarantees workers the right to earn up to seven paid sick days to care for themselves or a loved one who is sick, or to take time off to address domestic violence. The FAMILY Act ensures that workers can take paid family and medical leave when they need it to care for a new child or for themselves or a relative with a serious health condition. These comprehensive polices would help workers achieve a better balance between work and family life. The world has changed a lot in the last 30 to 40 years, but the workplace has not: In more than 60 percent of households with children, all adults are working. But the United States has failed to adopt federal workplace policies that reflect this reality. The U.S. remains the world's only wealthy nation that does not mandate a minimum of paid sick leave, vacation leave or parental leave. Nationally, 41 million private sector workers – 36 percent of the workforce – do not have access to any sick leave at all. Millions more workers cannot earn paid sick time they can use to care for a sick child or family member. According to the Institute for Women’s Policy Research, if all workers had access to paid sick days, emergency room visits would decline by 1.3 million visits a year, saving $1.1 billion annually. More than half of those savings would be to public health insurance programs like Medicaid and the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP). Without basic protections like paid sick days and paid family leave, many working parents are one illness or accident away from losing their jobs.
07.05.2017	DEARBORN, MI – Today, U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) joined Michigan United and families of premature and special needs children to speak about the devastating impact repeal of the Affordable Care Act (ACA) would have on their lives and families. The ACA repeal bills proposed in the House and Senate would remove important protections and cut funding Michigan families rely upon. The proposals reinstate lifetime caps, gut protections for those with pre-existing conditions, end Healthy Michigan and slash hundreds of billions of dollars from Medicaid. “The ACA and Healthy Michigan have extended critical protections to hundreds of thousands of families across the state, and the powerful and deeply personal stories we heard today underscore how important it is to ensure these protections continue,” said Dingell. “Before the Affordable Care Act, being born premature was considered a pre-existing condition. The Senate and House repeal bills would take us back to a time when parents had to worry about how they would afford their child’s care, whether they would be denied coverage or hit lifetime caps, and whether the medical bills would bankrupt their family. We cannot afford to go back. I want to thank the Bates, Sanchez and Korsak families for sharing their stories today. We will continue to raise these stories up and fight these devastating proposals with everything we’ve got. Lives depend on it.” “Congress is debating taking health care away from vulnerable children so that the most fortunate among us can have a tax cut. That’s just wrong. This is generous country where we take care of each other,” said Ryan Bates, director of Michigan United and the father of a child born 14 weeks early. In addition to the Bates family, participants also heard from the Sanchez family whose son Benicio suffers from autism and benefits from Medicaid programs. Vicki Korsak, an advocate and peer counselor at Hutzel Children’s Hospital Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU, representing the March of Dimes, also spoke about her daughter who was born 14 weeks premature. More than 11 million children in the United States – 15 percent of all children – have special health care needs, and more than half of these children rely on pubic insurance like Medicaid for coverage. The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office reported that the Republican House repeal bill would slash Medicaid funding by $834 billion over ten years and leave 14 million fewer Americans with health insurance through Medicaid. The Senate bill would harm Medicaid even more profoundly, by further restricting the growth rate for future federal funding. Additionally, in Michigan: • 695,000 people have gained health coverage since the ACA was implemented. • Roughly 1.6 million people in Michigan have pre-existing health conditions, and could have their coverage rescinded if the ACA is repealed. • Michigan received $3.08 billion in federal Medicaid dollars to implement the Healthy Michigan plan. This revenue could be lost if the ACA is repealed. • A recent University of Michigan study found that Medicaid expansion in Michigan has boosted our economy and our budget and will continue to do so for the next five years. According to the study, the Healthy Michigan plan has generated more than 30,000 new jobs each year – one-third of them being in healthcare and 85 percent in the private sector. These jobs resulted in approximately $2.3 billion more in personal spending power for Michigan residents.
07.04.2017	DEARBORN, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement in recognition of the July 4th holiday. “The Fourth of July in an opportunity to pause and remember how lucky we are to be Americans. It is our country’s birthday. We mark 241 years since our founding fathers charted a path forward for this nation, and declared that all are created equal and ‘endowed by their creator with certain unalienable rights, that among these are life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness.’ “Independence Day is a celebration of these values. It is also a time to honor the brave men and women who have served to protect and defend these rights so we may live safe, secure and free. As we gather in our communities for fireworks, barbecues and parades, let us stop to reflect and remember what we owe those who have fought for these principles throughout the history of our country. “We need to also remember there is far more that unites us than divides us, and we are stronger when we all may pursue our founders’ vision of life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. Let's use America’s birthday to remember what binds us together – to tone down our rhetoric and improve civility. Let us listen more, respect each other's opinions, disagree without disrespect, seek common ground as a starting point for dialogue about differences, be aware of preconceptions, and try to get others to do the same. Let us stand up to fear and hate; and encourage civic engagement as the antidote for current times. “Let us remember, first and foremost, that we are all Americans. Happy Birthday America.”
06.30.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) is using the July District Work Period to stay in touch with what is on her constituents’ minds. Throughout the week, she will hold six Congress in Your Community events to meet and talk with people in Michigan’s 12th District. Congress in Your Community allows Dingell to talk directly with members of the community about their issues and concerns. It is also an opportunity for constituents to take advantage of the services provided through Dingell’s office. Constituents across the 12th District are welcome to attend and no appointment is necessary. For questions or additional information, please call Dingell’s Dearborn office at 313-278-2936. Dingell will continue to hold these events throughout the summer. Sunday, July 2, 2017 WHAT: Dingell to host Congress in Your Community in Lincoln Park WHEN: 12:30-2 p.m., Sunday, July 2 WHERE: Lincoln Park Farmers Market, 2018 Fort St., Lincoln Park Thursday, July 6, 2017 WHAT: Dingell to host Congress in Your Community in Wyandotte WHEN: 2:30-4 p.m., Thursday, July 6 WHERE: Wyandotte Farmers Market, Corner of First and Elm St., Wyandotte Friday, July 7, 2017 WHAT: Dingell to host Congress in Your Community in Dearborn WHEN: 10:30 a.m.-12 p.m., Friday, July 7 WHERE: Dearborn Farmers Market, 22100 Michigan Av, Dearborn -- WHAT: Dingell to host Congress in Your Community in Taylor WHEN: 1-2:30 p.m., Friday, July 7 WHERE: Taylor Farmers Market, 12111 Pardee Rd., Taylor Saturday, July 8, 2017 WHAT: Dingell to host Congress in Your Community in Ann Arbor WHEN: 8:30-10 a.m., Saturday, July 8 WHERE: Ann Arbor Farmers Market, 315 Detroit St., Ann Arbor -- WHAT: Dingell to host Congress in Your Community in Ypsilanti WHEN: 10:30 a.m.-12 p.m., Saturday, July 8 WHERE: Ypsilanti Farmers Market- Depot Town, 400-698 Rice St., Ypsilanti
06.29.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12), U.S. Congressman Bill Huizenga (MI-02), and U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (MI) led a bipartisan, bicameral letter to Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Scott Pruitt urging him to release the FY 2016 report to Congress on the recent activities and accomplishments of the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI). GLRI annual reports are required by law and utilized by Members of Congress, federal agencies, local stakeholders and the public across the Great Lakes states to determine funding levels and protect the waters for future generations. The letter, signed by 48 Senators and Representatives, comes as Congress considers President Trump’s FY 2018 budget request, which completely eliminates GLRI funding. “The GLRI is one of the most successful federal programs in leveraging public and private funding for environmental and economic restoration efforts throughout the Great Lakes basin,” the lawmakers wrote. “Give that it has been over a year since the EPA submitted the report on the progress of the GLRI program, and with important budget decisions pending before Congress, we would urge you to promptly provide the report that details project funding in FY 2016. These reports provide important transparency on the GLRI program and help the Congress oversee the projects in our region that receive this critically important funding.” The full letter can be read here and below. June 28, 2017 The Honorable Scott Pruitt Administrator U.S. Environmental Protection Agency 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, N. W. Washington, DC 20460 Dear Administrator Pruitt: We are writing to urge the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s Great Lakes Interagency Task Force (IATF) to release the FY 2016 Report to Congress on the recent activities and accomplishments of the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI). Members of Congress, federal agencies, local stakeholders, and the public across the Great Lakes states rely on GLRI annual reports to protect our waters for future generations. The GLRI is one of the most successful federal programs in leveraging public and private funding for environmental and economic restoration efforts throughout the Great Lakes basin. Since 2010, the program has provided more than $2 billion in funding to clean up toxic Great Lakes areas of concern, prevent the spread of aquatic invasive species, limit the growth of harmful algal blooms, and restore thousands of acres of fish and wildlife habitat throughout the Great Lakes. In the Conference Report that accompanied the FY 2010 Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act (P.L. 111-88), language was included that stated “beginning in 2011 and each year thereafter, the Agency [EPA] is directed to provide detailed yearly program accomplishments and compare specific funding levels allocated for participating Federal agencies from fiscal year to fiscal year.” Additionally, the five-year authorization of the GLRI included in the Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation (WIIN) Act (P.L. 114-322) passed last December required a yearly detailed description to Congress of the GLRI’s progress and amounts transferred to participating federal agencies for carrying out activities that support the GLRI. The EPA, through the Great Lakes Interagency Task Force, published the FY 2015 GLRI Report to Congress and the President on June 16, 2016. Given that it has been over a year since the EPA submitted the report on the progress of the GLRI program, and with important budget decisions pending before the Congress, we would urge you to promptly provide the report that details project funding in FY 2016. These reports provide important transparency on the GLRI program and help the Congress oversee the projects in our region that receive this critically important funding. Thank you for considering this request, and we hope future GLRI annual reports are released in a timely and consistent manner.
06.28.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today announced that the Dearborn Fire Department will receive a $773,637 vehicle acquisition grant through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program. The grant will be used to purchase new equipment and provide increased safety training for the department. “It is critical that local firefighters and first responders have the equipment necessary to protect our communities safely and effectively,” Dingell said. “This grant will ensure Dearborn firefighters have the tools and training they need to stay safe on the job while protecting our communities. Their success in securing a third grant speaks to the quality of their application and the great work being done at the Dearborn Fire Department.” "We're so grateful to be receiving this AFG grant - with it we can fund the purchase of newer, safer equipment for all of our firefighters,” said Dearborn Fire Chief Joseph Murray. “It also allows us the opportunity to provide specialty classes and increased safety training, which is the only way we can keep doing our jobs. This is the third grant we've received and we wouldn't be able to keep the community, and our firefighters, as safe without this grant." The AFG program awards grants directly to fire departments and EMS organizations that are unaffiliated with a hospital to enhance their response capabilities and to more effectively protect the health and safety of the public and emergency response personnel with respect to fire and all other hazards.
06.28.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and U.S. Rep. Fred Upton (MI-06) led a bipartisan letter to the White House urging the Trump administration to immediately release the Brandon Road Lock and Dam study. The letter, signed by all 14 members of Michigan’s House Delegation, highlights the study as being the best way to learn how to prevent Asian Carp from entering the Great Lakes. The letter comes on the heels of the discovery of an 8-pound, 28-inch adult silver carp less than 10 miles from Lake Michigan. The letter notes that Asian Carp would have the “potential to decimate the Great Lakes we all love and depend on. It is absolutely imperative we step up our effort to further protect our lakes. The release of the Brandon Road Lock and Dam evaluation is an essential next step to ensure we safeguard our region’s $7 billion fishing industry, $16 billion boating industry, and $18 billion hunting and wildlife observation industry.” The full letter can be found online here or below: President Donald J. Trump The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear President Trump: We write to you in support of immediately releasing the Brandon Road Lock and Dam study on how best to prevent Asian Carp from entering the Great Lakes. The recent discovery of a live Silver Carp well beyond the electric barrier and only nine miles from Lake Michigan is very concerning, and the study is crucial to getting a full grasp of our options to stop this destructive force. As you know, the Army Corps of Engineers (Corps) first announced the Brandon Road Lock and Dam evaluation in April 2015 as part of the ongoing Great Lakes and Mississippi River Basin Study. This evaluation is intended to provide important guidance on how best to prevent Asian Carp from entering the Great Lakes. Although the Corps initially announced that a draft of the Brandon Road study would be released on February 28, 2017, the release has since been delayed until further notice. Asian Carp have the potential to decimate the Great Lakes we all love and depend on. It is absolutely imperative we step up our effort to further protect our lakes. The release of the Brandon Road Lock and Dam evaluation is an essential next step to ensure we safeguard our region’s $7 billion fishing industry, $16 billion boating industry, and $18 billion hunting and wildlife observation industry. The introduction of Asian Carp would compete with native species, unravel aquatic food chains, and have devastating economic consequences for these industries and others across the entire region. Further delay of the study will only increase the likelihood of a full scale, irreversible inundation of this highly destructive invasive species. Ensuring Asian Carp stay out of these treasured waters that support countless jobs in our region, now and in the future, is of the utmost importance. Our efforts will not stop until the Asian Carp threat is stopped once and for all. We ask you to release this critical study immediately, with strong bipartisan support.
06.28.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today the House Energy and Commerce Committee approved a bipartisan amendment introduced by U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and U.S. Congressman Fred Upton (MI-06) expressing the sense of the Congress that the governments of the United States and Canada should not allow permanent or long-term storage of spent nuclear fuel or other radioactive waste near the Great Lakes. The amendment comes as Ontario Power Generation (OPG) seeks approval to construct a deep geologic repository for nuclear waste less than one mile from Lake Huron in Kincardine, Ontario. “Today, we are sending a strong, powerful, bipartisan message to our friends and neighbors in Canada that the U.S. Congress is united against storing nuclear waste in or near the Great Lakes,” said Dingell. “The Great Lakes contain more than 20 percent of the world's freshwater supply and are a critical source of drinking water for millions of Americans, as well as Canadians. All of this would be jeopardized if there is a nuclear spill; it is simply a risk we cannot afford to take. We have a moral responsibility to protect these natural resources and we need the Canadian government to understand how strongly we are opposed to putting the Great Lakes at risk to this unacceptable danger.” “It’s simple: Permanent radioactive waste storage doesn’t belong anywhere near our Great Lakes,” said Upton. “A spill near this precious natural resource would have devastating effects for public health, drinking water, the environment and our economy. This bipartisan amendment sends the proper signal that we will not sit idly by and allow permanent storage near our beloved Great Lakes. We also must continue the bipartisan push for a permanent nuclear waste repository. I want to thank my friend Debbie Dingell, and our entire Michigan Delegation, for their continued work on this critical issue.” The Great Lakes delegation has been consistent in their strong opposition to OPG’s proposed nuclear waste site near the Great Lakes. Earlier this month, 32 Members sent a letter to Secretary of State Rex Tillerson urging him to do everything in his power to protect the Great Lakes and convince the Canadian government to select an alternative site. A copy of the letter is available here.
06.27.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Following a House Energy and Commerce Digital Commerce and Consumer Protection (DCCP) Subcommittee Hearing, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and Chairman Bob Latta (OH-05) expressed their commitment to working together on autonomous vehicle legislation. The DCCP hearing discussed 14 bills aimed at establishing a working framework for regulation of self-driving vehicles that would allow manufacturers to innovate and increase safety on the roads. Video of today’s hearing can be viewed here. “Today’s hearing is an important step toward finding bipartisan consensus on the best ways to deploy automated vehicle technologies and keep this country at the forefront of innovation,” said Dingell. “With a staggering 35,000 deaths on our roadways in 2015, the development of these technologies has the potential to improve motor vehicle safety and save lives. Automated vehicles are going to be developed – it is simply where it will happen first and by whom. The U.S. must stay at the forefront of innovation and technology, and we must make sure that we remain in the driver’s seat as opposed to countries like China or India. We must also ensure that safety is the number one priority, discuss cyber security and understand the impact on the labor force as well as societal impacts, including the benefits automated vehicles provide for the aging, disabled and others. I look forward to working with Chairman Latta and my colleagues on a bipartisan bill that ensures the U.S. is the leader in this important area.” “Self-driving cars provide the opportunity to increase safety on our roadways and improve quality of life for all Americans,” said Latta. “In order for the U.S. to lead on this cutting-edge technology, we need a framework that allows industry to innovate while ensuring high safety standards. This endeavor should not be a partisan exercise, and I’m glad to work with Congresswoman Dingell to ensure that the federal government is performing its customary oversight role while allowing industry the ability to develop, test, and implement this new technology. Her insight and perspective will be valuable as we work to develop a legislative and regulatory approach that strikes the right balance.” Michigan and Ohio are ranked first and second in the country, respectively, in the number of businesses that supply auto parts. Both states would benefit economically and in job creation from the implementation of self-driving car technology.
06.26.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement after the Supreme Court announced that they will hear President Trump’s Muslim ban case and allow parts of the ban to take effect prior to the ruling. “Our most fundamental responsibility is to keep this country safe. National security leaders have warned that this ban will endanger our national security and hurt, not help, our fight against terror. It is disappointing that the Supreme Court will allow parts of this dangerous and discriminatory ban to take effect while they hear arguments against it. This ban, in any form, is inconsistent with our Constitution and our values as Americans and has no place in our democracy.”
06.26.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement on the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office’s (CBO) score of the Senate proposal to repeal the Affordable Care Act (ACA). “I agree with President Trump on one point – the House repeal bill is ‘mean.’ Today’s CBO score confirms that the Senate bill is just as heartless as the one jammed through the House. This proposal will have a devastating impact on working families, with 22 million Americans losing coverage and millions more paying higher out-of-pocket costs to get the care they need. It goes back on the promise President Trump made to protect people with pre-existing conditions by eliminating essential health benefits like prescription drug coverage, hospitalizations and emergency services. It would also eliminate Medicaid expansion, which has extended coverage to nearly 700,000 Michiganders and provides critical services for children and those with long-term care needs. “The Senate should reject this dangerous bill, and instead work in a bipartisan manner to improve the Affordable Care Act. Turning our backs on our most vulnerable, children, seniors and those with pre-existing conditions is not the answer.”
06.23.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, on the 45th anniversary of Title IX, U.S. Representatives Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and Ryan Costello (PA-06) led a bipartisan letter to Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos urging her to maintain Title IX guidance in K-12 schools that protects young people from sexual assault and harassment. The letter, signed by 52 Members of Congress, also urges Secretary DeVos to continue training for Title IX coordinators and support other critical programs that combat sexual violence in schools. “Over the course of the last few months, I have met a number of high school students who have been raped or experienced inappropriate sexual behavior and are suffering deeply as a result,” said Rep. Dingell. “The issue of sexual assault on college campuses has received more attention in recent years, as it needs to. The reality is that this behavior most likely began far earlier. It is critical that our K-12 schools have the resources, guidance and training to address this issue, support victims, raise awareness and educate young people. If we can address this behavior earlier, we may be able to prevent more devastating incidents of sexual assault in the future. A young man recently came up to me and observed, ‘they need to be teaching us this in middle school,’ which is one of the reasons continuing these vital protections is so important.” “Our schools must be prepared to protect students from sexual assault and violence, which is why maintaining current guidance to make sure schools know their responsibilities and commit to them is so important,” said Rep. Costello. “The lasting consequences for victims of sexual assault can be wide-ranging, which is just one of the reasons why we must ensure schools support completing training and education to provide an environment safe from sexual violence.” “While we celebrate 45 years of successes under Title IX, we need to focus on the work that’s still left to be done when it comes to gender equity in education,” said Anne Hedgepeth, interim vice president of government relations and policy at the American Association of University Women (AAUW). “Now more than ever the Department of Education under Secretary DeVos must show their steadfast commitment and support to upholding and strengthening Title IX. Our students’ access to an education free from discrimination is on the line.” “So much is at stake for our daughters and sons,” said Esta Soler, Futures Without Violence President and Founder. “School systems are failing victims of sexual assault and harassment. And more importantly, our culture is failing them by normalizing disrespectful and bullying behavior both online and off. Our leaders have a duty to fund and enforce the sexual violence protections guaranteed under Title IX.” “Sexual violence remains a pervasive issue that we must relentlessly spotlight and address,” said Judy Vredenburgh, President and CEO of Girls Inc. “In order for girls to grow up healthy and realize their full potential, K-12 schools must have the resources and the will to understand and effectively address sexual harassment and assault. The Department of Education plays an important role in safeguarding these basic civil rights, and we applaud the members of Congress elevating this issue with Secretary DeVos. Together with our girls, affiliates, partners, and concerned citizens, we too ask the Department to preserve its Title IX guidance and join with us to ensure schools provide safe learning environments for our young people.” “It is our responsibility to support students who have experienced sexual violence and provide them with the proper resources,” said Ebony Tucker, advocacy director for the National Alliance to End Sexual Violence. “Enforcement of the 2011 Title IX guidance and training for Title IX coordinators is the best way to accomplish that goal.” A recent study conducted by the National Women’s Law Center found that more than 1 in 5 girls ages 14 to 18 reported being kissed or touched without their consent. The same study found that 68 percent of survivors had difficulty concentrating in class and another 30 percent reported being absent from school because they felt unsafe at school following their assault. These statistics demonstrate that victims of sexual assault in K-12 schools face far-ranging emotional and academic consequences that can have a negative impact on their education. Continued strong focus on Title IX programs would decrease these numbers. In addition to Rep. Dingell and Rep. Costello, the letter was signed by Reps. Jackie Speier (CA-14), Patrick Meehan (PA-7), Ann McLane Kuster (NH-2), David Joyce (OH-14), Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12), Tom Reed (NY-23), Jerry McNerney (CA-9), Gwen Moore (WI-4). Luis Gutierrez (IL-4), Elise M. Stefanik (NY-21), Emanuel Cleaver (MO-5), Judy Chu (CA-27), José E. Serrano (NY-15), Frederica Wilson (FL-24), David Cicilline (RI-1), Jacky Rosen (NV-3), Sander M. Levin (MI-9), Mark Pocan (WI-2), Adam Smith (WA-9), Bobby Scott (VA-3), Juan Vargas (CA-51), Dwight Evans (PA-2), Lois Frankel (FL-21), John Yarmuth (KY-3), James P. McGovern (MA-2), Donald M. Payne Jr. (NJ-10), Carol Shea-Porter (NH-1), Anna Eshoo (CA-18), Tom O’Halleran (AZ-1), Katherine Clark (MA-5), Mike Thompson (CA-5), Suzanne Bonamici (OR-1), David Scott (GA-13), Susan A. Davis (CA-53), A. Donald McEachin (VA-4), Stacey Plaskett (VI-AL), Al Green (TX-9), Elizabeth Esty (CT-5), Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18), Donald Norcross (NJ-1), Richard M. Nolan (MN-8), Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA-40), Carolyn B. Maloney (NY-12), Kathy Castor (FL-14), Jamie Raskin (MD-8), Colleen Hanabusa (HI-1), Diana DeGette (CO-1), Mark Takano (CA-41), Marcy Kaptur (OH-9), Jared Huffman (CA-2). The Representatives letter can be read here and below. Dear Secretary DeVos: As you begin to craft the priorities of the U.S. Department of Education, we ask you to consider an issue of great importance: protecting young people from sexual and dating violence. As you know, K-12 schools have a responsibility under Title IX to take measures to prevent sexual violence and harassment in schools and to promptly investigate these instances when they occur. We request that you prioritize efforts to combat sexual violence and harassment at K-12 schools by maintaining the 2011 Title IX guidance document issued by the Department and to supporting other critical programs that combat sexual violence in our schools. All children deserve a learning environment in K-12 schools that is free from sexual violence and harassment. While sexual violence and harassment has received great attention at the collegiate level, we know that most of the behavior we see on our college campuses didn’t begin there. Many of the attitudes and behaviors begin much earlier, and if addressed early might prevent more serious incidents of rape and sexual assault. Sexual harassment and assault, including cyber bullying that often accompanies assaults, can have a profound effect on victims, forcing many to drop out of school and in some of the most devastating instances drive a student to take her or his own life. The numbers illustrate this point far too well. Sexual and family violence are two of the biggest drivers of youth suicide, and are also unseen drivers of absenteeism and drop-out, particularly for girls. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 40 percent of rape victims were first raped before the age of 18, and youth suicide is increasing, with the rate of suicide among 10-14 year olds doubling since 2007. In a study conducted by the National Women’s Law Center in January of 2017, more than 1 in 5 girls ages 14 to 18 reported being kissed or touched without their consent. The same study found that 68 percent of survivors had difficulty concentrating in class and another 30 percent reported being absent from school because they felt unsafe at school. Continued strong focus of Title IX programs would decrease these numbers. As you know, under Title IX schools have a responsibility to address and prevent sexual violence and harassment. In 2011, the Department of Education issued guidance to K-12 schools – in response to their request for more information – regarding how they can meet their Title IX obligations. This guidance document provides clear guidelines to schools on how to respond to reported incidents of sexual violence and harassment. By providing clarity to schools on how to respond, the guidance has driven a more thorough and fair process for all involved. We believe it is vital this guidance be maintained and ask you to preserve it throughout your tenure as Secretary. In addition to maintaining the guidance document, we ask that you support training and education for Title IX coordinators and school personnel in K-12 schools. Schools need this targeted technical assistance to ensure they have the training to fairly and adequately enforce the intent of the law. Having a knowledgeable and well-trained faculty is essential to ensuring our K-12 schools are free from sexual harassment and violence, and we hope the Department will continue to provide this support. Finally, as you continue your work as Secretary of Education we ask you to engage in active outreach and dialogue with survivors of sexual assault in K-12 schools and their advocates. This is essential to ensuring the Department is hearing from all voices and is crafting policies that are responsive to the needs of victims. This is an important part of ensuring that our K-12 schools are safe spaces for all. We believe you share our commitment to these issues and were encouraged by your comments in March of this year when you said, “We all have a common responsibility to ensure every student has access to a safe and nurturing learning environment.” We ask the Department to preserve the 2011 Title IX guidance for K-12, schools, support Title IX coordinators at K-12 schools, and engage the voice of victims of assault as the Department moves forward in these areas. We look forward to working with you to ensure that our K-12 schools are free from sexual assault and violence. Sincerely,
06.22.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement after Senate Republicans released their proposal to repeal the Affordable Care Act (ACA). “After drafting this bill in a back room, behind closed doors with no transparency, no hearings and no attempt at bipartisan negotiations, Senate Republicans finally released the text of their health care plan today. The results are devastating for working families. Like the House bill, this damaging proposal would rip health care away from millions of Americans, gut protections for those with pre-existing conditions, end Medicaid expansion, which has extended coverage to nearly 700,000 people in our state through the Healthy Michigan program, and charge older Americans five times more for care – all to give billions in tax breaks to the wealthiest and big corporations. “This is not who we are as Americans. We should be working together to bring down costs for all families and ensure every American has access to quality, affordable health care. I agree with President Trump on one point: the House bill is mean. This plan is just as heartless and represents an abdication of our moral responsibility to the people we represent.”
06.20.2017	DEARBORN, MI – U.S. Rep. Debbie Dingell (MI-12) along with her colleagues Reps. Donald Norcross (NJ-01) and Mark Pocan (WI-02) today brought together experts in labor, academia and manufacturing for a “Future of Work, Wages, and Labor” discussion at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. The event is the third in a series of discussions and town halls that are being held this year in Congressional districts across the country to study the issues facing American workers and identify ways to proactively grow and invigorate the workforce. Following the U-M Dearborn discussion, the group met with UAW President Dennis Williams and Teamsters President Jimmy Hoffa and held a roundtable discussion with local workers and labor leaders at UAW Region 1A. The Representatives, along with Rep. Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) and other Members in the House are studying these issues and aiming to release a series of comprehensive policy recommendations by September. “Many people in Michigan and across the country have not recovered from the 2008 economic downturn,” said Dingell. “The fear and anxiety is still there. People are concerned about their pensions, another trade deal shipping their job overseas, and the impact automation could have on their industries. We need to do everything we can to address the challenges facing working men and women and ensure they’re getting the skills they need. Michigan is one of the homes of the labor movement. We know how important the continued growth of the middle class and the creation of quality jobs are to all Americans. I look forward to working with my colleagues to develop policy recommendations that will expand opportunities for working families in Michigan and across the country.” "It's great to be joining my colleagues in Michigan and around the country as we hear from local experts on how to create good-paying jobs. It is particularly interesting, here in Michigan, to hear from labor leaders in a 'right to work' state where unions have been marginalized," said Norcross. “I'm a lifetime union member of IBEW Local 351 and was an electrician by trade; I know firsthand that hard-working men and women are the backbone of our economy. I'm honored to be part of this group of lawmakers working to shape policies that raise wages and put American workers first." “Long before Donald Trump began talking about a rigged economy, Reps. Dingell, DeSaulnier, Norcross and I began investigating the ways conservative policy makers have been stacking the deck against workers in favor of big businesses and wealthy campaign donors,” said Pocan. "Whether it is the evaporation of retirement security or the misclassification of workers as independent contractors, hard-working families have been suffering the consequences of conservative policies for nearly four decades. In Wisconsin, we have seen the GOP’s war on workers under Gov. Walker, and President Trump seems to be taking a page out of Walker’s playbook by sticking it to the very people who helped elect him. I look forward to continue working with my colleagues to create a comprehensive set of policies to help working families get ahead.” “No longer should our working families come second to corporate interests,” said DeSaulnier. “Through our ‘Future of Work, Wages, and Labor effort and events we are holding across the country, like today’s discussion in Michigan, we are developing solutions to help Americans earn a livable wage, provide for their families with fulfilling jobs, own homes, and when the time comes retire with dignity. I thank Congresswoman Debbie Dingell for hosting this timely event and my colleagues Representatives Mark Pocan and Don Norcross for their leadership on behalf of the American worker.”
06.14.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement after a gunman opened fire at a practice for the Congressional baseball game. “I am stunned and horrified by today’s shooting at a baseball practice for one of the few bipartisan events left on Capitol Hill where people come together as a community in the annual Congressional baseball game between Republicans and Democrats. We are praying for all of them – my Congressional colleagues, their staffs, the Capitol Police, their families and everyone affected. Let us come together today. We need to lose this divisiveness, this constant disagreement, animosity and hostility between too many people. We need to listen, share, respect, and accept each other. Today we are all united as Americans against this unspeakable evil – and we are united as colleagues who want to serve our communities and make them better and stronger for the people we represent.”
06.13.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Reps. Debbie Dingell (MI-12), Dave Trott (MI-11), John Conyers (MI-13), and Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) sent a letter to President Trump urging him to include strong and enforceable currency manipulation provisions in the renegotiation of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA): “American workers deserve to compete on a level playing field, and until our trade agreements meaningfully address currency manipulation, the mother of all trade barriers, they will continue to be disadvantaged by foreign governments who don’t play by the rules,” said Rep. Dingell. “We need our government to fight for American workers and companies in the same manner other countries do. Strong, enforceable protections against currency manipulation must be included in the renegotiation of NAFTA and any future trade agreements to ensure we can protect American jobs and grow manufacturing in this country.” "For decades, Southeast Michigan manufacturers at every level of the supply chain have been decimated - put at a competitive disadvantage by countries that unfairly manipulate their currency,” said Rep. Trott. “We need to crackdown on currency manipulators, leveling the playing field for domestic manufactures and ensuring we set the rules. Including strong and enforceable currency manipulation protections in the renegotiation of NAFTA will set a strong precedent for future trade deals, bolstering the vitality of our national economy and protecting the jobs of hardworking Michigan families.” Last month, President Trump’s administration, in accordance with the Trade Promotion Authority notified Congress of its intent to begin formal trade talks with Canada and Mexico in a renegotiation of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). A PDF of the signed letter is available here. Full text is as follows: Dear President Trump: Thank you for notifying Congress of your administration’s intent to begin trade talks with Canada and Mexico in a formal renegotiation of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). Ensuring our international trade agreements are in the best interest of the United States is critical to bolstering the vitality of our national economy. In r epresenting the great State of Michigan, the heart of our nation’s domestic auto and manufacturing industries, we strongly urge your administration to include strong and enforceable currency manipulation protections in the renegotiation. For decades, Michigan’s industries have been decimated, put at a competitive disadvantage by countries that unfairly manipulate their currency. The inclusion of strong currency manipulation prohibitions in the renegotiation of NAFTA will set an important precedent as our nation negotiates trade deals with various countries. Manufacturers in Michigan don’t need special treatment. The unparalleled work product of the hardworking men and women of Michigan speaks for itself. However, we must level the playing field for our domestic manufacturers, ensuring the United States sets the rules, allowing the American work product to compete and succeed in the global economy. Deploying strong currency manipulation protections is instrumental in allowing American companies to succeed, increasing economic prosperity, and securing good paying jobs for hardworking families in Michigan and across the country. With so much at stake, we implore you to include currency manipulation protections in the renegotiation of NAFTA, setting a strong precedent for all future trade deals.
06.12.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives unanimously passed bipartisan legislation introduced by Representatives Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and Tim Walberg (MI-07) to help reduce unnecessary paperwork burdens and bring down energy prices for Michigan families. H.R. 1109 amends the Federal Power Act to establish a minimum monetary threshold of $10 million before a merger or consolidation of facilities under the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission's (FERC) jurisdiction is subject to a review. Adjusting this threshold brings mergers or consolidations into line with the same standard for other categories of transactions that FERC oversees. This adjustment will allow FERC and energy producers to focus on providing affordable energy rather than dedicating time and resources to redundant government red tape. “This legislation represents a common sense approach which will save consumers money, result in our government running more efficiently, and ensure important transparency,” said Dingell. “This is an example of what we need to be doing more of – working together to find solutions for the American people – and I will continue working with Congressman Walberg to get this bill across the finish line.” “With summer almost here, it’s another reminder of how much of a factor energy prices play in household budgets,” said Walberg. “Bogging down FERC and energy producers with excessive paperwork will ultimately lead to higher costs that families can’t afford. This commonsense bill will help free up the commission to focus their resources on ensuring consumers are getting the most affordable and reliable energy possible.”
06.08.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement regarding former FBI Director James Comey’s testimony today before the Senate Intelligence Committee. “Former FBI Director Comey’s testimony underscores, more urgently than ever, the need for the ongoing Special Counsel and congressional investigations to proceed fairly, thoroughly and free of political influence. Director Comey’s confirmation that President Trump asked him to shut down the investigation into Michael Flynn, and the fact that he felt compelled to ensure the appointment of a Special Counsel, is deeply concerning. “It has become abundantly clear that the Russians attempted to interfere in our elections, and we need to understand the ‘how’ and the ‘why.’ We need to be alert and understand how they may be trying to undermine the integrity of our democracy. It is our job to ensure there is an independent and non-partisan investigation, unobstructed by anyone, and that we are united as Americans in getting the truth.”
06.07.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representatives Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and Dave Trott (MI-11) today led a bipartisan group of 32 Members of Congress in urging Secretary of State Rex Tillerson to use his full diplomatic and legal power to halt proposed construction of a nuclear waste storage facility near the Great Lakes. The letter, which represents the strongest bipartisan opposition to the plan yet, comes after Ontario Power Generation (OPG) submitted a 145 page document to the Canadian Environmental Assessment Agency doubling down on its proposal to bury nuclear waste at the Bruce Power complex less than a mile from Lake Huron in Kincardine, Ontario. “The Great Lakes account for 20 percent of the world’s freshwater supply and are absolutely critical for millions of Americans who rely on them for clean drinking water, jobs and their way of life,” Rep. Dingell said. “Any spill in this area would be catastrophic for the entire region, and no barrier or wall would be able to contain it. As I told Prime Minister Trudeau last year, we never want to see nuclear waste in the Great Lakes. OPG has identified other locations outside the Great Lakes basin that would be technically feasible and those options must be pursued. Protecting this precious resource at any cost should be a top priority.” “Representing one-fifth of the world’s freshwater supply, the Great Lakes are one of the most critical and sensitive ecosystems in the world. Since its proposal, I have been extremely alarmed by Ontario Power Generation’s plan to bury nuclear waste within one mile of the magnificent shores of Lake Huron,” said Rep. Trott. “Today, I, Rep. Debbie Dingell, and many other concerned Members from the Great Lakes region, implored Secretary of State Rex Tillerson to do everything in his power - diplomatic and legal - to protect our Great Lakes. Inaction is too high a price to pay.” In the letter, the Representatives wrote, “With the release of this report, it is our strong belief that OPG has doubled down on the Bruce Power Complex proposal for two inconvenient facts for the company: that they believe an alternative site would be more expensive and take longer to construct. “We cannot let cost be the sole driving factor in this critical decision, as storing nuclear waste in the Great Lakes basin bears far too great a risk that would be fundamentally devastating to an entire region. Any contamination whatsoever would pose disastrous repercussions as all of the lakes are connected to one another, and no barrier, man-made or natural, would be able to stop a potential catastrophe of epic proportions.” Dingell and Trott were joined on the letter by Representatives John Conyers (MI-13), Marcy Kaptur (OH-9), Sandy Levin (MI-09), Louise Slaughter (NY-25), Fred Upton (MI-06), Luis Gutiérrez (IL-04), Jan Schakowsky (IL-09), Betty McCollum (MN-04), Tim Ryan (OH-13), Brian Higgins (NY-26), Dan Lipinski (IL-03), Gwen Moore (WI-04), Keith Ellison (MN-05), Marcia Fudge (OH-11), Rick Nolan (MN-08), Tim Walberg (MI-07), Sean Duffy (WI-07), Bill Huizenga (MI-02), Jim Renacci (OH-16), David Joyce (OH-14), Dan Kildee (MI-05), Mark Pocan (WI-02), Jackie Walorski (IN-02), Mike Bishop (MI-08), Brenda Lawrence (MI-14), John Moolenaar (MI-04), Jack Bergman (MI-01), Mike Gallagher (WI-08), Raja Krishnamoorthi (IL-08), and Paul Mitchell (MI-10). The letter can be read here and below. June 7, 2017 Secretary Rex Tillerson United States Department of State 2201 C Street, NW Washington, DC 20520 Dear Secretary Tillerson: For some time, a bipartisan coalition of Members of Congress from the states bordering the Great Lakes have expressed our strong concerns to a proposal by Ontario Power Generation (OPG) to construct a deep geologic repository for nuclear waste (DGR) less than one mile from Lake Huron in Kincardine, Ontario. Nearly one tenth of the U.S. population lives in the Great Lakes basin, and more than 35 million people, with approximately 24 million of them being Americans, rely on the Great Lakes for drinking water, jobs, and their way of life. In fact, the Great Lakes account for more than 20 percent of the world’s freshwater supply. Given the extraordinary importance of this precious resource, we, along with many of our colleagues, have repeatedly emphasized our opposition to permanently burying nuclear waste within the Great Lakes basin. Shortly after President Trump’s election, OPG released a study on potential alternate locations for the DGR. In that report, OPG recognized that there are other viable locations to store nuclear waste in Ontario that would be technically feasible, and we have asked the Canadian government to require OPG to select a site that is outside the Great Lakes basin. Despite OPG’s initial report that contained false claims based on social media and internet activity to demonstrate “little interest among the general public” for the proposed DGR in Kincardine, 186 local, county, and state governments representing 23 million constituents in both the United States and Canada have passed resolutions explicitly opposing OPG’s proposal. Last week, in response to questions raised by the Canadian Environmental Assessment Agency, OPG released a 145 page document answering 23 questions to support its DGR proposal for the Bruce Power Complex in Kincardine. With the release of this report, it is our strong belief that OPG has doubled down on the Bruce Power Complex proposal for two inconvenient facts for the company: that they believe an alternative site would be more expensive and take longer to construct. We cannot let cost be the sole driving factor in this critical decision, as storing nuclear waste in the Great Lakes basin bears far too great a risk that would be fundamentally devastating to an entire region. Any contamination whatsoever would pose disastrous repercussions as all of the lakes are connected to one another, and no barrier, man-made or natural, would be able to stop a potential catastrophe of epic proportions. We write to urge you to do everything in your power – through both diplomatic and legal channels – to protect our Great Lakes and to convince the Canadian government to require OPG to select an alternative site that will not place the health, safety, and economic security of Americans at risk. Thank you for your attention to this important matter. We stand ready to partner with you in any way can to make sure the Great Lakes are preserved for generations of Americans to come. Sincerely,
06.01.2017	MACKINAC ISLAND, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement on President Trump’s announcement that the United States will withdraw from the landmark Paris Climate Accord. “President Trump’s decision to withdraw the United States from the Paris Climate Accord is stunning. In walking away from one of the most important international agreements of the last century – signed by nearly every other nation on earth – the President is ignoring the reality of climate change while signaling to the world that we are no longer willing to be a leader in addressing one of our most pressing global threats. “This abdication of American leadership jeopardizes not only our credibility on the world stage, but our ability to achieve energy freedom and to innovate and compete in the new energy economy, costing our country the new jobs and businesses that come with it. Joining Nicaragua and Syria as the only countries not included in the agreement is dangerous and shortsighted and will have devastating consequences for the future of our planet and the health of our people, as well as our national security and economic competitiveness. “What cannot be denied is that sea levels are rising, oceans are warming and icebergs are melting. Weather patterns are becoming more severe, floods are devastating communities, droughts are threatening crops and wildlife, and freshwater supplies are in danger. Ignoring or denying these problems won’t make them go away. Now more than ever, it is critical that we work together with states, cities and the business community to continue to support efforts that will halt the effects of climate change, regardless of the administration’s actions, so that we may uphold our responsibility to protect this planet for future generations.”
06.01.2017	MACKINAC ISLAND, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement on reports that General Motors (GM) will end one of its production shifts at the Warren Transmission Operations plant in Michigan. “This announcement by GM further underscores the urgent need for us to come together at all levels of government – federal, state and local – around policies that support a strong manufacturing base and a healthy auto industry, which is still the backbone of the American economy. These cuts are about jobs. Every job matters, and we must ensure we're doing everything we can to accelerate policies that ensure our companies and workers can compete in a global marketplace – from addressing currency manipulation and updating our tax policy to improving access to capital so companies can stay at the forefront of innovation. Instead of politics, we need to focus on policies that will protect and create jobs, grow manufacturing and keep the auto industry strong.”
05.31.2017	MACKINAC ISLAND, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement on Ontario Power Generation’s (OPG) report to the Canadian Environmental Assessment Agency standing by its proposal to store nuclear waste less than a mile from Lake Huron. “The Great Lakes account for more than 20 percent of the world’s freshwater supply, and any nuclear waste spill near this precious resource would have disastrous consequences for the environment, economy and public health. No wall would ever protect these waters if a spill occurred. As I told Prime Minister Trudeau in a meeting last year, we never want to see nuclear waste in the Great Lakes. An earlier study by OPG recognized that there are other viable locations to store nuclear waste outside the Great Lakes basin. These options would cost time and money, but must be pursued. Protecting the Great Lakes and the drinking water for nearly 40 million people should be the number one priority.”
05.27.2017	DEARBORN, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement in honor of Memorial Day, which will be observed on Monday, May 29 2017. “Memorial Day weekend is a time we come together as community to salute the men and women who served this country and gave their life to keep this nation safe, secure and free. During these times, we think about what it means to be American, and how fortunate we are to have freedom of speech and religion, freedom of the press and freedom of assembly, the right to security and liberty, the right to equal treatment under the law and due process, among other civil liberties. We remember we can never take these liberties for granted. “Throughout our nation’s history, millions of heroes have stepped forward to defend our freedom and our way of life. This is a day we remember them, share stories between generations and rededicate ourselves to preserving the ideals they gave their lives to protect. It is because of them that we proudly remain the land of the free and the home of the brave, and we must never forget them or take these freedoms for granted.”
05.25.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) this week paired up with Brittney Barros and Mario McLean from Ypsilanti, Michigan for the 6th Annual Congressional Foster Youth Shadow Day. Brittney and Mario joined more than 100 foster youth alumni from across the country who traveled to Washington, DC to shadow members of Congress to get a behind-the-scenes look at the House of Representatives and share their experiences in the child welfare system as a way to influence policy around foster care. “These two young people are an inspiration for all of us,” said Dingell. “Brittney and Mario have overcome unbelievable challenges and both have a great outlook on life. I want to thank them for having the bravery to share their stories with me. No child should have to experience what they went through, and the fact that they want to use their lives to help others is a testament to their strength and spirit. We all must work together to ensure that our nation’s child welfare system enables every child to grow up in a safe, nurturing environment.” "NFYI Shadow Day and Debbie Dingell have paved the way to create the building blocks needed to turn my advocacy into policy,” said Brittney. “After experiencing multiple life-threatening challenges while being in foster care, it became my life goal to make sure every foster youth has a safe home, quality life care, rights to stay in contact with siblings and access to funds that help them transition into adulthood. Oftentimes, our voices are left unheard and we are swept under the rug. Congresswoman Dingell and her staff made me feel my voice was being heard and for the first time, a priority." "I had an absolute blast at Shadow Day,” said Mario. “This was definitely a once in a lifetime experience and I'm just so grateful that I could be a part of something that means so much to me. I was surprised how enthused Debbie and her staff were to meet me and get to learn a little bit more about my experiences in the foster care system. I'm definitely looking forward to furthering my relationship with Debbie and starting a foster care movement back home in Michigan!" Brittney Barros, 18, works as a Peer Outreach Worker for Ozone Youth, a Michigan nonprofit organization for at-risk and homeless youth. She is also a voice for foster youth through the Michigan Youth Opportunity Initiative, serving as president and state co-director for Park West Foundation, working to connect foster youth with federal and local programs and resources. Brittney spent four years in the foster care system and is currently pursuing a degree in music therapy from Eastern Michigan University. Mario McLean, 23, is a graduate of Michigan State University and works for Frito-Lay as a District Sales Manager. He was involved in the Fostering Academics Mentoring Excellence (FAME) program during his time at Michigan State and now serves as a mentor in his local Big Brother Big Sister program. Mario spent five years in the foster care system and will begin work on his MBA in the fall.
05.24.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement after the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) released a report detailing the impact of Republican’s latest proposal to repeal the Affordable Care Act (ACA). “Today’s CBO report confirms that the American people have everything to lose from Republicans’ plan to repeal the Affordable Care Act. This plan does not reduce costs or improve access to healthcare for the American people. Instead, it rips health insurance away from 23 million Americans and increases costs and weakens protections for millions more. This bill takes a sledgehammer to protections for pre-existing conditions and ends Healthy Michigan, which has extended coverage to nearly 700,000 people in our state. This is about people, not politics, and I urge my Republican colleagues to stop and consider the devastating impact on the families they represent before rushing forward with this dangerous bill.”
05.24.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today joined 195 House colleagues in sending a letter to President Trump reminding him that millions of working families around the nation are relying on him to continue paying the Affordable Care Act’s (ACA) cost-sharing reduction (CSR) payments. Since taking office, President Trump has raised doubts about the future of these payments, which help seven million hardworking Americans and their families afford their out-of-pocket health care costs, such as deductibles and copays, through the ACA Marketplace. “Ensuring every American has access to affordable, quality health insurance should be a shared goal for the President and every Member of Congress,” said Dingell. “Stopping these cost-sharing reduction payments, which are required by law, could put health insurance out of reach for families in Michigan and across the country. It is critical that the President fulfill his obligation to make these payments and stop all other acts of sabotage that could result in millions of Americans losing access to care.” In Michigan, 164,700 people currently benefit from the cost-sharing subsidies. The President’s failure to commit to paying these subsidies is destabilizing the Marketplaces, and will directly result in higher health care costs and insurance companies pulling out of the Marketplace, leading to fewer consumer choices. If the Marketplace is destabilized, 313,100 Michiganders who purchased high quality Marketplace coverage would face higher health care costs and fewer choices. “The decision to unilaterally rescind support for these subsidies will cause premiums and out-of-pocket costs to skyrocket and could cause millions of Americans to lose their health insurance coverage,” Dingell and her colleagues wrote. “Insurers have little time left to finalize their rate filings for 2018, and without certainty as to whether or not cost-sharing subsidies will be paid, they will significantly raise their rates or exit the Marketplaces altogether.” In April, a report from the Kaiser Family Foundation estimated that insurance premiums for certain plans would need to increase by 19 percent to compensate for the lack of funding for cost-sharing subsidies. “Working families in every state are relying on you to pay cost-sharing subsidies to help ensure that they can afford the health care they need,” the Members wrote. “The stability of the nation’s health care system and the health of millions of Americans now rest in your hands. Their health care coverage is not a bargaining chip.” Full text of the letter to President Trump can be found below: May 24, 2017 The President The White House Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President: The law requires, and it is your obligation under the law, to pay the Affordable Care Act’s (ACA) cost-sharing reduction payments. Equivocation on this matter destabilizes the market and hurts American families by directly increasing their health care costs. Cost-sharing reduction payments help seven million hardworking Americans and their families – more than half of all Marketplace enrollees for 2017 – afford their out-of-pocket health care costs. The decision to unilaterally rescind support for these subsidies will cause premiums and out-of-pocket costs to skyrocket and could cause millions of Americans to lose their health insurance coverage. According to a recent report in Politico, your administration has stated that it will continue to pay these cost-sharing subsidies, for now. However, your public statements continue to raise doubts about the future of these payments and your commitment to enforcing the ACA, the law of the land. You have also stated in the past that, “The best thing politically is to let Obamacare explode” and recently said that “Obamacare is dead.” We strongly disagree. The ACA is not dead; however, your failure to commit to paying these subsidies is destabilizing the Marketplaces, and will directly result in higher costs and fewer consumer choices. Insurers have little time left to finalize their rate filings for 2018, and without certainty as to whether or not cost-sharing subsidies will be paid, they will significantly raise their rates or exit the Marketplaces altogether. According to the American Academy of Actuaries, failure to make cost-sharing subsidy payments “could result in insurer losses and solvency challenges, leading insurers to further consider withdrawing from the market. . . . [S]ignificant market disruption could result, leading to millions of Americans losing their health insurance.” In fact, the CEO of Molina Healthcare recently warned that if cost-sharing subsidies are not funded, the company will withdraw from the Marketplaces immediately. In areas where insurers decide to remain in the Marketplaces, failure to pay these subsidies will increase premiums for all individuals enrolled in the individual market. According to a study by the Kaiser Family Foundation, average ACA Marketplace premiums for silver plans would need to increase by 19 percent to compensate for lack of funding for cost-sharing subsidies. An analysis conducted by Covered California found that 2018 health premiums in the individual market in California could rise by 42-49 percent if the subsidies are not funded and other provisions of the ACA are not enforced. Rising prices and fewer choices will likely hit consumers in rural areas, where health care prices have traditionally been higher, particularly hard. As a result of rising premiums, the federal government would end up spending $31 billion more from 2018-2027. Working families in every state are relying on you to pay cost-sharing subsidies to help ensure that they can afford the health care they need. The stability of the nation’s health care system and the health of millions of Americans now rest in your hands. Their health care coverage is not a bargaining chip. It is your responsibility to the American people and your obligation under the law to make the cost-sharing reduction payments and to stop other acts of sabotage that undermine Americans’ access to affordable, quality health insurance. Sincerely,
05.24.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today joined 195 House colleagues in sending a letter to President Trump reminding him that millions of working families around the nation are relying on him to continue paying the Affordable Care Act’s (ACA) cost-sharing reduction (CSR) payments. Since taking office, President Trump has raised doubts about the future of these payments, which help seven million hardworking Americans and their families afford their out-of-pocket health care costs, such as deductibles and copays, through the ACA Marketplace. “Ensuring every American has access to affordable, quality health insurance should be a shared goal for the President and every Member of Congress,” said Dingell. “Stopping these cost-sharing reduction payments, which are required by law, could put health insurance out of reach for families in Michigan and across the country. It is critical that the President fulfill his obligation to make these payments and stop all other acts of sabotage that could result in millions of Americans losing access to care.” In Michigan, 164,700 people currently benefit from the cost-sharing subsidies. The President’s failure to commit to paying these subsidies is destabilizing the Marketplaces, and will directly result in higher health care costs and insurance companies pulling out of the Marketplace, leading to fewer consumer choices. If the Marketplace is destabilized, 313,100 Michiganders who purchased high quality Marketplace coverage would face higher health care costs and fewer choices. “The decision to unilaterally rescind support for these subsidies will cause premiums and out-of-pocket costs to skyrocket and could cause millions of Americans to lose their health insurance coverage,” Dingell and her colleagues wrote. “Insurers have little time left to finalize their rate filings for 2018, and without certainty as to whether or not cost-sharing subsidies will be paid, they will significantly raise their rates or exit the Marketplaces altogether.” In April, a report from the Kaiser Family Foundation estimated that insurance premiums for certain plans would need to increase by 19 percent to compensate for the lack of funding for cost-sharing subsidies. “Working families in every state are relying on you to pay cost-sharing subsidies to help ensure that they can afford the health care they need,” the Members wrote. “The stability of the nation’s health care system and the health of millions of Americans now rest in your hands. Their health care coverage is not a bargaining chip.” Full text of the letter to President Trump can be found below: May 24, 2017 The President The White House Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President: The law requires, and it is your obligation under the law, to pay the Affordable Care Act’s (ACA) cost-sharing reduction payments. Equivocation on this matter destabilizes the market and hurts American families by directly increasing their health care costs. Cost-sharing reduction payments help seven million hardworking Americans and their families – more than half of all Marketplace enrollees for 2017 – afford their out-of-pocket health care costs. The decision to unilaterally rescind support for these subsidies will cause premiums and out-of-pocket costs to skyrocket and could cause millions of Americans to lose their health insurance coverage. According to a recent report in Politico, your administration has stated that it will continue to pay these cost-sharing subsidies, for now. However, your public statements continue to raise doubts about the future of these payments and your commitment to enforcing the ACA, the law of the land. You have also stated in the past that, “The best thing politically is to let Obamacare explode” and recently said that “Obamacare is dead.” We strongly disagree. The ACA is not dead; however, your failure to commit to paying these subsidies is destabilizing the Marketplaces, and will directly result in higher costs and fewer consumer choices. Insurers have little time left to finalize their rate filings for 2018, and without certainty as to whether or not cost-sharing subsidies will be paid, they will significantly raise their rates or exit the Marketplaces altogether. According to the American Academy of Actuaries, failure to make cost-sharing subsidy payments “could result in insurer losses and solvency challenges, leading insurers to further consider withdrawing from the market. . . . [S]ignificant market disruption could result, leading to millions of Americans losing their health insurance.” In fact, the CEO of Molina Healthcare recently warned that if cost-sharing subsidies are not funded, the company will withdraw from the Marketplaces immediately. In areas where insurers decide to remain in the Marketplaces, failure to pay these subsidies will increase premiums for all individuals enrolled in the individual market. According to a study by the Kaiser Family Foundation, average ACA Marketplace premiums for silver plans would need to increase by 19 percent to compensate for lack of funding for cost-sharing subsidies. An analysis conducted by Covered California found that 2018 health premiums in the individual market in California could rise by 42-49 percent if the subsidies are not funded and other provisions of the ACA are not enforced. Rising prices and fewer choices will likely hit consumers in rural areas, where health care prices have traditionally been higher, particularly hard. As a result of rising premiums, the federal government would end up spending $31 billion more from 2018-2027. Working families in every state are relying on you to pay cost-sharing subsidies to help ensure that they can afford the health care they need. The stability of the nation’s health care system and the health of millions of Americans now rest in your hands. Their health care coverage is not a bargaining chip. It is your responsibility to the American people and your obligation under the law to make the cost-sharing reduction payments and to stop other acts of sabotage that undermine Americans’ access to affordable, quality health insurance. Sincerely,
05.24.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today joined 195 House colleagues in sending a letter to President Trump reminding him that millions of working families around the nation are relying on him to continue paying the Affordable Care Act’s (ACA) cost-sharing reduction (CSR) payments. Since taking office, President Trump has raised doubts about the future of these payments, which help seven million hardworking Americans and their families afford their out-of-pocket health care costs, such as deductibles and copays, through the ACA Marketplace. “Ensuring every American has access to affordable, quality health insurance should be a shared goal for the President and every Member of Congress,” said Dingell. “Stopping these cost-sharing reduction payments, which are required by law, could put health insurance out of reach for families in Michigan and across the country. It is critical that the President fulfill his obligation to make these payments and stop all other acts of sabotage that could result in millions of Americans losing access to care.” In Michigan, 164,700 people currently benefit from the cost-sharing subsidies. The President’s failure to commit to paying these subsidies is destabilizing the Marketplaces, and will directly result in higher health care costs and insurance companies pulling out of the Marketplace, leading to fewer consumer choices. If the Marketplace is destabilized, 313,100 Michiganders who purchased high quality Marketplace coverage would face higher health care costs and fewer choices. “The decision to unilaterally rescind support for these subsidies will cause premiums and out-of-pocket costs to skyrocket and could cause millions of Americans to lose their health insurance coverage,” Dingell and her colleagues wrote. “Insurers have little time left to finalize their rate filings for 2018, and without certainty as to whether or not cost-sharing subsidies will be paid, they will significantly raise their rates or exit the Marketplaces altogether.” In April, a report from the Kaiser Family Foundation estimated that insurance premiums for certain plans would need to increase by 19 percent to compensate for the lack of funding for cost-sharing subsidies. “Working families in every state are relying on you to pay cost-sharing subsidies to help ensure that they can afford the health care they need,” the Members wrote. “The stability of the nation’s health care system and the health of millions of Americans now rest in your hands. Their health care coverage is not a bargaining chip.” Full text of the letter to President Trump can be found below: May 24, 2017 The President The White House Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President: The law requires, and it is your obligation under the law, to pay the Affordable Care Act’s (ACA) cost-sharing reduction payments. Equivocation on this matter destabilizes the market and hurts American families by directly increasing their health care costs. Cost-sharing reduction payments help seven million hardworking Americans and their families – more than half of all Marketplace enrollees for 2017 – afford their out-of-pocket health care costs. The decision to unilaterally rescind support for these subsidies will cause premiums and out-of-pocket costs to skyrocket and could cause millions of Americans to lose their health insurance coverage. According to a recent report in Politico, your administration has stated that it will continue to pay these cost-sharing subsidies, for now. However, your public statements continue to raise doubts about the future of these payments and your commitment to enforcing the ACA, the law of the land. You have also stated in the past that, “The best thing politically is to let Obamacare explode” and recently said that “Obamacare is dead.” We strongly disagree. The ACA is not dead; however, your failure to commit to paying these subsidies is destabilizing the Marketplaces, and will directly result in higher costs and fewer consumer choices. Insurers have little time left to finalize their rate filings for 2018, and without certainty as to whether or not cost-sharing subsidies will be paid, they will significantly raise their rates or exit the Marketplaces altogether. According to the American Academy of Actuaries, failure to make cost-sharing subsidy payments “could result in insurer losses and solvency challenges, leading insurers to further consider withdrawing from the market. . . . [S]ignificant market disruption could result, leading to millions of Americans losing their health insurance.” In fact, the CEO of Molina Healthcare recently warned that if cost-sharing subsidies are not funded, the company will withdraw from the Marketplaces immediately. In areas where insurers decide to remain in the Marketplaces, failure to pay these subsidies will increase premiums for all individuals enrolled in the individual market. According to a study by the Kaiser Family Foundation, average ACA Marketplace premiums for silver plans would need to increase by 19 percent to compensate for lack of funding for cost-sharing subsidies. An analysis conducted by Covered California found that 2018 health premiums in the individual market in California could rise by 42-49 percent if the subsidies are not funded and other provisions of the ACA are not enforced. Rising prices and fewer choices will likely hit consumers in rural areas, where health care prices have traditionally been higher, particularly hard. As a result of rising premiums, the federal government would end up spending $31 billion more from 2018-2027. Working families in every state are relying on you to pay cost-sharing subsidies to help ensure that they can afford the health care they need. The stability of the nation’s health care system and the health of millions of Americans now rest in your hands. Their health care coverage is not a bargaining chip. It is your responsibility to the American people and your obligation under the law to make the cost-sharing reduction payments and to stop other acts of sabotage that undermine Americans’ access to affordable, quality health insurance. Sincerely,
05.23.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today released the following statement on President Trump’s 2018 budget request. “The budget submitted today does not reflect the values of American communities. President Trump’s proposal is an assault on things that have always been a priority for the American people – investments in children and working families, infrastructure and innovation, healthcare and education, which help our families succeed and keep our nation competitive. “By cutting billions from nondefense services, including programs like Medicaid, student aid and Meals on Wheels, this budget jeopardizes critical programs that help working families get ahead when times are tough – and frankly keep seniors alive – all while cutting taxes for the wealthiest and big corporations. This is not who we are. “This budget also fails to recognize our responsibility as stewards of our natural resources to protect our land and water for future generations. By virtually eliminating funding for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative – the single most successful program cleaning up toxic pollution and combatting invasive species – this budget jeopardizes the Great Lakes ecosystem, jobs and our way of life. It is also disappointing that the President is moving forward with cuts that jeopardize current operations and jobs at the EPA National Vehicle and Fuel Emissions Lab in Ann Arbor, which does critical work to reduce vehicle emissions and ensure the U.S. stays at the forefront of innovation. “Fortunately, the President doesn’t have the final say on the budget, Congress does. And it is the belief of most that this proposal is dead on arrival – right where it belongs. I will be fighting tooth and nail with my colleagues to protect vital programs our children, families, communities and environment depend upon.”
05.23.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) released the following statements today after the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency accepted the determinations of the status of the open waters of Lake Erie made by both the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency and Michigan Department of Natural Resources. While Michigan determined the open waters of Lake Erie to be impaired, Ohio declined to make the same assessment. Notably, the U.S. EPA accepted both assessments even though they disagreed on the status of Lake Erie. “Clean drinking water is a fundamental right for every American. There is no line of separation in Lake Erie, and this decision endangers water quality for people in Michigan, Ohio and throughout the Great Lakes region,” said Congresswoman Dingell. “Failure to recognize these waters as impaired puts public health, the Great Lakes and our $4.5 billion recreational and commercial fishing industry at risk. The administration must take a clear and proactive stance so we can confront this challenge and devise a plan to address this threat to public health and the environment.” “This is not sensible. There is no imaginary line in the middle of Lake Erie where one side of the lake faces challenges that don’t impact the other side. This is a shared challenge that the entire region faces. This decision by the Trump era U.S. EPA leaves our Great Lakes in peril and risks the health of millions of Americans. Eleven million people depend on Lake Erie for their drinking water and this contradictory action fails to address the real danger they face from the presence of toxic algal blooms,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. In December, the Dingell and Kaptur teamed up to send a letter to the EPA urging them to disregard Ohio’s determination and list the waters as officially impaired.
05.19.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today announced that the City of Ypsilanti Fire Department will receive a $451,237 regional grant through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program. The funding will be used to purchase EMS and training equipment for 16 fire agencies throughout the region. “It is critical that local firefighters have the equipment necessary to protect our communities safely and effectively,” Dingell said. “This funding will ensure that fire departments throughout our region are equipped with the most up-to-date tools and technology to stay safe on the job.” "The grant will be a great relief for the agencies involved,” said Ypsilanti Fire Chief Max Anthouard. “This equipment will enable coordinated efforts, and implementation of new county EMS protocols. We are very happy about this.” Fire departments included in the regional grant include: Ann Arbor Township, Augusta Township, City of Belleville, Dexter Area, Green Oak Township, Manchester Township, Northfield Township, Northville Township, Plymouth Township, Salem Township, Saline area, Scio Township, Superior Township, Van Buren Township, City of Ypsilanti, Ypsilanti Township. The AFG program awards grants directly to fire departments and EMS organizations that are unaffiliated with a hospital to enhance their response capabilities and to more effectively protect the health and safety of the public and emergency response personnel with respect to fire and all other hazards.
05.18.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement after the administration notified Congress of plans to renegotiate the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). “Since NAFTA passed, too many workers in Michigan and across the country have seen their jobs shipped overseas, their wages drop in real terms and their families lose hope. We now have an opportunity to renegotiate this failed trade agreement, but it is critical that we do so in a way that puts working families first. We need to ensure that any renegotiated agreement creates jobs, raises wages and brings manufacturing back to this country. It must require strong rules of origin for cars and auto parts, which is critical for Michigan’s economy and the domestic auto industry, and the process must be open and transparent. “We cannot have another trade deal negotiated in secret. Today’s notice is very vague and it is not clear what the negotiation process will look like. If special interests dictate how NAFTA is renegotiated, the new deal could become more damaging for working families. We need to ensure that detailed negotiating goals are issued and that draft text is available after each negotiating round so the American people can determine how the policies will impact their families. I will be introducing legislation in the next week that will require trade deal negotiation transparency so the American people are educated and can have input on the agreements being negotiated on their behalf.” In February, Dingell introduced a Blueprint for America’s New Trade Policy, a resolution outlining principles that must be included in any replacement of NAFTA, including adding strong, enforceable protections against currency manipulation and requiring strong rules of origin for cars and auto parts. For more information, please click here.
05.17.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today commemorated Diffuse Intrinsic Pontine Glioma (DIPG) Awareness Day by joining Rep. Steve Knight (CA-25) and Rep. Jackie Speier (CA-14) in calling for action on H. Res 69, a bipartisan resolution the Representatives introduced in January to support expanded research for treatments and care for DIPG. Dingell’s constituent five-year-old Chad Carr lost his battle with DIPG in 2015. “DIPG is a devastating disease that no family should have to experience,” said Dingell. “In Michigan, we witnessed the courage, trauma and faith of the Carr family – and especially their son and brother Chad, who became a hero for finding a cure. Chad Carr lost his battle with this rare form of pediatric brain cancer at five years old, but along the way he showed us all what it means to be ‘Chad Tough’ and inspired our community to work together to fight this devastating disease. Chad’s family is working to turn this tragedy into a positive so other families do not have to experience what they went through. This resolution establishing May 17th as National DIPG Awareness Day is one step in the battle by helping to educate the public and ensure critical funding for research and treatment so we may one day find a cure.” Dingell’s resolution aims to raise awareness and support efforts by the Carr family, who launched the Chad Tough Foundation in 2015 in honor of Chad and his battle with DIPG. The Chad Tough Foundation supports pediatric brain tumor research and studies nationwide. The resolution, if passed, would officially establish a national “DIPG Awareness Day” on May 17 to raise awareness for the disease, which is responsible for the most pediatric brain tumor deaths each year and has maintained one of the lowest survival rates. “For years DIPG has been held to the side by our national efforts in healthcare and cancer research. There is always more we can do to raise awareness and commemorate the young lives devastatingly lost because of DIPG,” said Knight. “There is nothing more devastating to a parent than knowing there is nothing you can do to resolve pain and suffering of your child. As a parent, we need to do all we can to make sure children’s health issues are a priority for our communities and have the support of our government. Children and families deserve our support. With the passage of H. Res. 69, awareness will be established and more resources will be available for education and research for a cure.” DIPG is one of the more common pediatric brain tumors, and less than one percent of its victims live more than five years after diagnosis. In fact, the median survival time for children diagnosed with DIPG is only nine months. Despite its prevalence, the cancer has not garnered significant attention from the media, government agencies, or research investors, and as a result parents are regularly told there is nothing outside of palliative care they can do for their children. This bill would help change this by shining national attention on DIPG and urging the National Institute of Health to adjust its criteria for considering grants so that research into diseases like DIPG can receive adequate funding. “Today we honor the children and families who have been impacted by DIPG, a particularly insidious form of brain cancer that has stolen too many young lives,” said Speier. “That is why I am urging my colleague to pass H. Res. 69 to establish May 17th at National DIPG Awareness Day. We must educate the public about the impact of this horrendous disease and the need for more funding for research and treatment of the children impacted by DIPG, and we must provide better support for them and their families.” H. Res 69 is cosponsored by a bipartisan group of 18 Members of Congress.
05.17.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today released the following statement regarding Ford’s announcement that the company will cut 10 percent of its salaried workforce worldwide. “Ford Motor Company is in my backyard. It’s the lifeblood of our community and the men and women who work there are some of the best and hardest working individuals I know. As I said yesterday, this is about jobs. Every job matters, and we need to ensure we are doing everything we can to ensure a strong manufacturing base and a healthy thriving auto industry that never returns to the times of 2008. We must work together at the federal level to accelerate policies that create a strong competitive environment for our companies to do business – including addressing currency manipulation and updating our tax policies so the U.S. can stay at the forefront of innovation and technology. I will work with anyone to advance policies that protect and grow these jobs, keep manufacturing in this country and keep our auto industry strong.”
05.16.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today released the following statement regarding reports that Ford is considering personnel cuts to its global operations. “Like everybody in our community, I am deeply concerned by reports that Ford is considering reductions to its workforce. This would have a direct and significant impact on my district, which is the heart and soul of the auto industry and home to the hardest working men and women I know. “While we need to see the details of Ford’s plan, it is a strong reminder of the responsibility of Congress to help create a business climate that ensures we are keeping jobs here in the U.S., supporting a strong manufacturing base, and as a result, a healthy auto industry. We need to be focused on policies not politics, and the uncertainty coming out of Washington these days is not creating economic stability or inspiring consumer confidence. In fact, it is doing the opposite. We need to be working together to accelerate our efforts to address barriers facing manufacturers and ensure our companies and workers can compete in the global marketplace. We need trade policies that protect against currency manipulation and ensure a level playing field. We need tax policies that ensure companies have access to the capital they need to keep the U.S. at the forefront of innovation and technology. The auto industry is still the backbone of the American economy, and we need to ensure that we can protect and grow the jobs in this industry, while at the same time ensuring companies can invest in growth and take advantage of emerging opportunities to remain competitive. “The bottom line is: this is about jobs. It’s about our families, friends and neighbors. We need to do everything we can to keep manufacturing in this country, and I will work with anyone to advance policies that protect and grow jobs and keep our economy strong. We need more than words, we need action.”
05.11.2017	DEARBORN, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today announced that the Lincoln Park and Dearborn Heights Fire Departments will receive safety and operations funding through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program. “Our firefighters and first responders put their lives on the line every day to keep our communities safe,” Dingell said. “These grants will ensure that they are well equipped and trained to protect Michigan families and stay safe on the job. Both departments’ success in securing these grants highlights the good work being done at fire departments across Michigan’s 12th District.” Lincoln Park Fire Department will receive an $85,455 grant to purchase thermal imagers and install a source capture exhaust system to protect firefighters from toxic fumes at the fire station. “I would like to take this opportunity to express my sincere gratitude to Congresswoman Dingell and her office for her unwavering support for Fire Departments like ours during these challenging times,” said Lincoln Park Fire Chief Steve Martin. “Without the support of the Congresswoman and other State and Local Officials, it would be difficult, if not impossible, for the Lincoln Park Fire Department to complete our mission of protecting the life and property of the citizens we serve.” Dearborn Heights Fire Department will receive a $63,637 grant to purchase a new fire hose, stretchers, and fitness training equipment. “I can’t stress how important the AFG grants have been to our success,” Dearborn Heights Fire Chief David Brogan said. “Cities are trying to get by with limited resources and these grants are life-saving. Without these grants we would not be able to progress as we should.” The AFG program awards grants directly to fire departments and EMS organizations that are unaffiliated with a hospital to enhance their response capabilities and to more effectively protect the health and safety of the public and emergency response personnel with respect to fire and all other hazards.
05.09.2017	DEARBORN, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today urged the coroner and medical examiner involved in determining the cause of death for Private Siddiqui of Taylor, MI to revise the final determination of his manner of death based on information that has become available subsequent to the original finding. In a letter to Beaufort County Coroner J. Edward Allen and Dr. Lee Marie Tormos, attending pathologist at the Medical University of South Carolina, Dingell pointed to new information about the circumstances surrounding Private Siddiqui’s death and recently disclosed reports of at least 20 hazing investigations involving drill instructors at Parris Island. “New information has come to light about the circumstances surrounding his death and numerous investigations have shown other cases of abuse and hazing at Parris Island,” said Dingell. “This clearly demonstrates a pattern of maltreatment and of abuse at Parris Island, which shows that what happened to Private Siddiqui was not an isolated incident and gives more credence to the claims that his death was the result of abuse and not a suicide. In light of the current facts of this case, I urge you to support the family’s request to change Private Siddiqui’s manner of death from suicide to ‘Pending’ and/or ‘Undetermined.’” Dingell’s letter is here and below. Mr. J. Edward Allen Beaufort County Coroner P.O. Box 1228 Beaufort, SC 29901 Dr. Lee Marie Tormos, M.D. Medical University of South Carolina Department of Pathology and Lab Medicine 165 Ashley Avenue, Suite 309 MSC 908 Charleston, SC 29425 Dear Mr. Allen and Dr. Tormos: Last year, your offices made a determination of the cause of death of a constituent of mine, U.S. Marine Corps Private Raheel Siddiqui, based on evidence and reports that were available at the time. This letter is to support the request made by his family to revise the final determination of his manner of death based on information that has subsequently become available. This case has disturbed the conscience of many and it is important that the facts be followed. The original finding of suicide made by your offices was based on facts immediately available after the death. Since then, new information has come to light about the circumstances surrounding his death. The Marine Corps Command Investigation states that “several factors contributed to [Private Siddiqui’s] death, including maltreatment by his drill instructor team, leadership failures at multiple levels of command, and administrative and process failures, that if avoided, could have reduced the risk of his death.” The report goes into further detail about the physical abuse Private Siddiqui faced, including being slapped in the face moments before his death. While we will never know what happened, I am convinced he did not intend to kill himself that day, which is the definition of suicide. Since then, numerous investigations have shown other cases of abuse and hazing at Parris Island. In a recent article in the Washington Post, it was disclosed that there are at least 20 hazing investigations involving drill instructors. This clearly demonstrates a pattern of maltreatment and of abuse at Parris Island, which shows that what happened to Private Siddiqui was not an isolated incident and gives more credence to the claims that his death was the result of abuse and not a suicide. Private Siddiqui was an intelligent, loyal, patriotic young Muslim man—and class valedictorian—who chose to serve this country to defend our highest ideals of freedom and opportunity. He was his family’s pride and joy. Since the suicide determination, the family has experienced grave emotional stress and irreparable damages, both personally and within the community at large. I have seen firsthand the impact this has had on the Siddiqui family from the beginning and the pain the suicide determination has caused. In light of the current facts of this case, I urge you to support the family’s request to change Private Siddiqui’s manner of death from suicide to “Pending” and/or “Undetermined.” This is the right thing to do since we have more information available to us and not all the facts were available when the original determination of suicide was made. No parent should have to bear the burden of their child committing suicide when the evidence points to the contrary. Thank you for your attention and consideration of this request. My heart breaks for the Siddiqui family every day, and I will continue fight for all the answers and peace they deserve. Reversing the suicide determination in this case will go a long way to ease the family and help them find comfort. Sincerely,
05.08.2017	ANN ARBOR, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today held a press conference with leadership of the American Federation of Government Employees (AFGE), who represent workers at the EPA, to speak out against proposed budget cuts to the U.S. EPA National Vehicle and Fuel Emissions Laboratory (NVFEL) in Ann Arbor. Dingell toured the facility today at a time when the EPA faces severe cuts to their budget and staffing levels, which she noted in a letter to President Trump last month. The proposed budget by the administration threatens to shut down NVFEL’s operations at the Ann Arbor EPA facility, which employs 435 people. “The administration’s proposed cuts to EPA’s fuel economy and vehicle emissions budget is short-sighted and would create uncertainty, cost jobs and potentially destroy our country’s competitive edge in this important field,” said Dingell. “The more than 400 employees at the Ann Arbor lab do critical work every day to reduce vehicle emissions and ensure that the U.S. remains at the forefront of innovation. We can’t afford to lose these jobs, and we also can’t afford to halt the government’s work on creating more fuel efficient vehicles and lowering overall emissions, which benefit consumers, the auto industry and the environment. This vital work must go forward, which is why I will continue to work with my colleagues, the union and all stakeholders to stop these misguided cuts.” “Thank you to Rep. Dingell for once again standing with the Environmental Protection Agency and the working people who keep it running,” said AFGE Local 3907 President Mark Coryell. “Our job is to safeguard community health in this country by ensuring that Americans have clean air to breathe and safe water to drink. Unfortunately, budgetary cuts proposed by the Administration will severely undermine our ability to continue protecting both. As we face an uphill battle to fully fund the agency, we appreciate the support from members of Congress who see the value of what we do and continue to fight for us going forward.” The NVFEL is a state of the art facility that is an integral part of EPA’s Office of Transportation and Air Quality (OTAQ). Work at the lab is conducted by highly trained and experienced staff with backgrounds in engineering, chemistry, toxicology, law, and economics. Their research, testing, analysis and technological studies provide critical background for the establishment and monitoring of both fuel economy and vehicle emission standards. Strong standards like the ones in place today will save consumers money at the pump, reduce emissions and drive innovation in the industry. Yet all of these gains could be eliminated if EPA stopped their critical work in this area. President Trump’s proposed budget would drastically cut EPA’s OTAQ budget, which could reduce NVFEL staff by 50 percent and operating funds by over 90 percent, and threatens to shut down the Ann Arbor facility altogether.
05.07.2017	DEARBORN, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today announced that Bojana Vukovic, a senior exchange student from Theodore Roosevelt High School, is the winner of this year’s Congressional Art Competition for Michigan’s 12th District. Bojana was recognized at a ceremony Saturday in Taylor and her piece, an acrylic painting entitled “Waterfall,” will hang in the U.S. Capitol for one year. “We are extremely proud that Bojana’s work will represent our district in the halls of Congress,” said Dingell. “Art is an opportunity to share different cultures and perspectives. When young people have the opportunity to tap into their creativity, new doors are opened and new paths are discovered. Now more than ever, we need to encourage young peoples’ participation in the arts and support critical investments in arts education. The talent we saw in this year’s competition is truly amazing and we must continue to recognize and encourage it.” "Since I'm an exchange student this has been a life changing and once-in-a-lifetime opportunity for me," said Bojana. "When I first stepped on the ground in the U.S. I never could have imagined I could have won a competition like this. I am so grateful for everything that has happened so far." Bojana’s artwork will be sent to Washington, D.C. where it will be displayed alongside the works of other first place winners from across the country in a main corridor between the Capitol and the House Office Buildings. Bojana will be honored at a ceremony celebrating the opening of the show in Washington on Thursday, June 29th. The second place, third place and honorable mention winners’ artwork will be displayed in Dingell’s Dearborn District Office where everyone who visits will have the opportunity to enjoy some of the finest works from across the 12th District. The competition was judged by leaders in Southeast Michigan’s art community: Deb Polich, president and CEO of Artrain in Ann Arbor; Martine MacDonald, adjunct professor in the Arts and Humanities Department at Wayne County Community College District; and Elizabeth Barrett-Sullivan, the curator of exhibits at the Arab American National Museum. Sabrina Nelson, admission counselor at the College for Creative Studies in Detroit, was the featured speaker. Special recognition goes to: 2nd Place Winner: Zeinab Farhat (11th Grade) – Fordson High School – Artwork Title: Jidda/Medium: Photography 3rd Place Winner: Beatrice Miller (11th Grade) – Flat Rock High School – Artwork Title: Woolly/Medium: Charcoal Honorable Mention Winners: Anna Hardin (11th Grade) – Edsel Ford High School – Artwork Title: Innocence/Medium: Ball Point Pen Megan Bovee ( 12th Grade) – Oscar Carlson High School – Artwork Title: Nature’s True Colors/Medium: Marker Megan McCormick (12th Grade) – Theodore Roosevelt High School – Artwork Title: Another Cat/Medium: Glass Each spring, the Congressional Institute sponsors a nationwide high school visual art competition to recognize and encourage artistic talent in the nation and in each congressional district. Since the Artistic Discovery competition began in 1982, more than 650,000 high school students have participated.
05.04.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement after Republicans in the House of Representatives voted to repeal the Affordable Care Act (ACA) and roll back historic gains in coverage and access to care. “Today, my colleagues in the House of Representatives voted to rip health insurance away from at least 24 million Americans and turn back the clock on progress to ensure quality, affordable healthcare for all. This legislation literally means life or death for people across this country – it guts protections for pre-existing conditions, ends Medicaid expansion – which reduced the uninsured rate in Michigan by half – charges older Americans five times more for care, and steals from Medicare – all in order to give $600 billion in tax breaks to the wealthy and big corporations. This is not who we are. “The American people must continue to make their voices heard on this dangerous bill that will leave working men and women worse off and could ultimately cost lives. This is about real people, and it is our job to ensure that if they are sick, they can get the care they need. This bill does the exact opposite.” Dingell urged her colleagues to vote against this dangerous proposal on the House floor earlier today. Her remarks can be viewed here and read below. Thank you, Mr. Speaker. I rise today in strong opposition to this misguided legislation to repeal the Affordable Care Act. This vote might be the single most important issue our Congress deals with. It literally means life or death for too many people in our country. What we vote on today is ultimately a reflection of our values as a nation. I believe that we have a moral responsibility to take care of the most vulnerable among us. The nuns taught me that, the Bible teaches us that – the sick, the poor, the elderly – and this dangerous bill does nothing to protect them. In fact, it will do more harm to our most vulnerable. 129 million Americans suffer from a pre-existing condition. They are our neighbors, our friends and for some, our family. They’re the people attending their town hall meetings. For me, I am a caregiver. I spend more time at the hospital and the doctors’ than I want to, and person after person comes up to me and tells me their story, and begs me that they will not lose their insurance. Healthy Michigan let them go to the doctor for the first time. The Affordable Care Act made a guarantee that someone with a pre-existing condition would not be charged more than healthy people, and that coverage would be available to all. Thank you, please vote against this shameful bill.
05.03.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today released the following statement on the Omnibus Appropriations bill that funds the government through September 2017. “The House passed an Omnibus Appropriations bill today that funds many critical priorities and rejects dangerous poison pill riders, including President Trump’s border wall. It’s not perfect, but it is a compromise, which is exactly how Congress should work. “The bill did do several things that matter greatly to the people of Michigan’s 12th District. It restores access to year-round Pell grants, rejects proposed cuts to the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative and increases funding for vital medical research by $2 billion. Particularly reassuring was the rejection of proposed cuts to the GLRI, which is critical for cleaning up toxic pollution, protecting our waters from invasive species like Asian carp, and restoring wildlife habitats. Protecting this funding is critical for the Great Lakes economy and our way of life. This legislation is a momentary victory, but our work is far from done. “Most disturbing were threats of a government shutdown in September. We will do everything we can over the next several months to ensure the programs funded today that matter to the working men and women of Michigan’s 12th District are funded in the next fiscal year and beyond.”
05.02.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and U.S. Rep. Fred Upton (MI-06) re-introduced bipartisan legislation in the U.S. House of Representatives that will champion the STEM education program FIRST Robotics. H.R. 5168, the Christa McAuliffe Commemorative Coin Act of 2017, would mint a $1 coin in honor of Christa McAuliffe, the teacher and astronaut who perished in the 1986 Space Shuttle Challenger disaster, and recognize and support FIRST Robotics. FIRST Robotics is the nation’s leading not-for-profit Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) education program established by inventor Dean Kamen. Once the money is recouped by the U.S. Treasury for the cost of minting the commemorative coin, all of the profits would go to FIRST Robotics. There would be no cost to the taxpayer. “FIRST Robotics helps students in Michigan reach for the stars – whether they want to pursue careers in science, technology, engineering or mathematics, this innovative programs helps young people gain the real-world knowledge and skills to help solve some of our most pressing future challenges,” said Dingell. “We need to encourage this talent and creativity. This coin provides a pathway to support these efforts while honoring an individual who inspired generations to enter the STEM field. I am proud to work with Rep. Upton and my colleagues to encourage young people to be at the forefront off innovation and technology.” “Michigan has the most FIRST Robotics teams in the country. Students on these teams grow up to become inventors, engineers, small business owners, and community leaders,” said Upton. “A few might even end up as the astronauts whose vision extends beyond our world, to new planets and galaxies – just like Christa McAuliffe. It is vitally important that we continue to encourage this type of inventive learning and team building. I look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to get this legislation passed.” Dingell and Upton are joined by original co-sponsors U.S. Rep. Randy Hultgren (IL-14), and U.S. Rep. Suzanne Bonamici (OR-01).
04.28.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today released the following statement on passage of the one-week stopgap Continuing Resolution to avert a government shutdown. “Congress has once again kicked the can down the road, passing a short-term bill that only funds the government through the next week. The American people sent us to Washington to solve problems, not pass one-week extensions that fail to provide certainty to families or businesses. Democrats continue to be committed to advancing a bipartisan appropriations bill that advances our shared values and funds critical priorities, including investments in children and working families, innovation and education, and programs that protect the air we breathe and the water we drink.”
04.28.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, in a House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee hearing titled “Outdoor Recreation: Vast Impact of the Great Outdoors,” U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) emphasized the critical tie between protecting the Clean Water Act, Land and Water Conservation Fund and other key environmental programs and supporting Michigan’s outdoor recreation economy, which accounts for 194,000 jobs and generates $18.7 billion in economic activity every year. In her opening statement, Dingell urged her colleagues to remember the story of the Detroit River – once one of the most polluted rivers in the country and now an economic driver for local communities – when considering roll backs to programs that have cleaned up the nation’s air and water. Dingell’s full opening statement can be read below. Video is available here. “Outdoor recreation is not only a driver for Michigan’s economy – it is a way of life. In my state, everyone heads ‘Up North’ to go camping, fishing or, in John Dingell’s case, hunting. But I can tell you it wasn’t always like that. To give you one example - from 1946 to 1948, 5.9 million gallons of oil products were released annually into the Detroit River. It was one of the most polluted rivers in the country. Pollution was killing thousands of waterfowl ever year and threatening the local walleye and perch population. It was a drag on the economy. “Today, the river is now home to the Detroit River International Wildlife Refuge, our country’s only international refuge. The refuge is a huge driver of our local economy and is now home to 30 species of waterfowl, 117 kinds of fish and over 300 species of birds – a huge turnaround from the not so distant past. I mentioned the walleye population that was threatened – today the river is part of the ‘Walleye Capital of the World’ with anglers from across the country coming to the region. “This turnaround didn’t happen by accident. It happened because we passed laws like the Clean Water Act, the Clean Air Act, the Endangered Species Act, established the Land and Water Conservation Fund and dedicated significant resources to cleaning up our air and our water. “As we discuss the impact of outdoor recreation on our economy, I hope that the Committee will remember the story of the Detroit River and will protect the Clean Water Act and support strong federal investments in cleanup and conservation. It not only helps our environment, it helps our economy as well.”
04.21.2017	TRENTON, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12), State Representatives Darrin Camilleri, Abdullah Hammoud, Cara Clemente, and Frank Liberati today came together to reject President Trump’s budget blueprint for fiscal year 2018 that proposes deep cuts to programs that protect the environment and the Great Lakes. The budget proposes to cut EPA’s overall funding by 31%, in addition to completely eliminating the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative and closing EPA’s Region V office in Chicago that oversees the environmental programs throughout Michigan. “Those of us who live in Michigan know that the Great Lakes are a way of life- they are vital for clean water, jobs, and our economy,” said Dingell. “The earth is not ours, we just borrow it from future generations, and cutting funding from crucial programs that protect the environment and public health jeopardizes the critical work that has been done to clean up and protect these waters for generations to come. Protecting the environment is not a partisan issue, it is an American issue that impacts us all.” “The people I represent care deeply about the Great Lakes. Along our stretch of the Detroit River and Lake Erie alone, our community has used nearly $15 million from the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative,” said Camilleri. “The proposed cuts to this program are short-sighted and a danger to our health, economy, and quality of life here Downriver.” “Earth day tomorrow it is an important reminder that we need to preserve the beauty of our waterways,” said Clemente. “Not only do invasive species threaten these waterways but they also take away from the recreation all Michigan citizens enjoy. Riverfront parks are the gems of Downriver. Without support for these parks from all levels of government, we will not be able to enjoy them as we once did.” “We are fighting to protect our greatest natural resources - our land, air and water - for our families and future generations to come. We need policies that ensure all Michigan residents have access to clean water and clean air,” said Hammoud. “This is not a partisan issue. Sound environmental policy is good for our health and our economy." “With 20% of the World’s fresh water in our Great Lakes, it is critical that we continue to act as responsible stewards of these natural wonders,” said Liberati. “It is absolutely essential for the state of Michigan and the Trump Administration to maintain adequate support for all of our preservation initiatives.”
04.20.2017	DEARBORN, MI – This week, U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) sent a letter to the Acting Administrator of the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) Patrick Warren urging him to expedite an Environmental Assessment (EA) for the city of Ann Arbor’s new Amtrak station. The letter comes after stakeholders raised concerns that any further delay in releasing the EA by the FRA could jeopardize the City of Ann Arbor from receiving the full amount of a $2.8 million federal grant that expires in September of this year. “Amtrak’s Wolverine Line will soon be operating a high-speed rail service. The line serves around 500,000 customers a year and a new Ann Arbor station is vital to increasing ridership between Detroit, Michigan and Chicago, Illinois,” Dingell wrote. “Delaying the release of the EA until late spring or early summer jeopardizes the ability to complete the grant process before the September deadline. Please review Ann Arbor’s draft Environmental Assessment in an urgent and expeditious manner so the city can move forward with improving mass transit in the state of Michigan.” The full letter can be read here and below. April 14, 2017 Patrick T. Warren Acting Administrator Federal Railroad Administration 1200 New Jersey Ave, SE Washington, DC 20590 Dear Acting Administrator Warren: This letter is in regards to an issue critical to the city of Ann Arbor and mass transit in the state of Michigan. The Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) awarded the Michigan Department of Transportation a $2.8 million rail grant in 2011 that would help the city plan for a new Amtrak station. Ann Arbor city officials submitted a revised draft version of the Draft Environmental Assessment (EA) to the FRA. The city is awaiting the final release of the EA in order to begin a 30-day public review and comment period. If the grant is not finalized by September 30, 2017, any unused fund must be returned to the United States Treasury. This letter is to urge you to release the EA in an expedited fashion after a thorough review. Amtrak’s Wolverine line will soon be operating a high-speed rail service. The line serves around 500,000 customers a year and a new Ann Arbor station is vital to increasing ridership between Detroit, Michigan and Chicago, Illinois. Delaying the release of the EA until late spring or early summer jeopardizes the ability to complete the grant process before the September deadline. Please review Ann Arbor’s draft Environmental Assessment in an urgent and expeditious manner so the city can move forward with improving mass transit in the state of Michigan. Thank you for your attention to this critical issue and I look forward to receiving your response. Sincerely, Debbie Dingell Member of Congress
04.19.2017	DEARBORN, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today sent a letter to President Trump concerning reports of proposed cuts to federal funding for the Federal Vehicle and Fuel Standards and Certification Program at the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and, if implemented, the subsequent closure of the National Vehicle and Fuel Emissions Laboratory in Ann Arbor, Michigan. The Ann Arbor lab does important work to reduce vehicle emissions and ensure that the United States remains at the forefront of innovation in this critically important field. The full letter can be read here and below. April 19, 2017 The Honorable Donald J. Trump President of the United States The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear President Trump: This letter is regarding reports that your administration is proposing to drastically cut funding for the Federal Vehicle and Fuels Standards and Certification Program at the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), which does critically important work on fuel economy and vehicle emissions. The proposed cuts, if implemented, could result in the closure of the National Vehicle and Fuel Emissions Laboratory in Ann Arbor, Michigan. Although Congress has the final say on all spending matters, I urge you to reconsider this misguided idea in any final budget proposal you submit to Congress. Work at this lab is conducted by highly trained and experienced staff with backgrounds in engineering, chemistry, toxicology, law, and economics. Their research, testing, analysis and technological studies provide critical background for the establishment and monitoring of both cafe and emission standards. Policy makers like me depend on their work as do consumers who are being protected by these environmental regulations. Fuel economy standards provide real benefits to industry, the consumer and the environment. Consumers are demanding more fuel efficient vehicles from the automakers and companies have made real strides to improve fuel economy while still designing cars that people want to buy. Strong standards like we have in place today will save consumers money at the pump, reduce carbon emissions and drive innovation in the industry. The Ann Arbor lab also does important work to reduce vehicle emissions. The EPA’s work on vehicle engine and fuel economy testing is critical to ensure that the intent of legislation and regulation on emissions standards and CAFE is met and that the benefits of these programs become a reality. Yet all of these gains could be eliminated if EPA stopped their critical work in this area. We should all be working together to improve and strengthen our fuel economy programs rather than gutting the EPA’s budget which does so much important work in this area. The geographical location of this lab is also important to note, given its proximity to major research facilities of every domestic automaker. For me, it is important to understand their work and analysis. That is why I had requested a visit to the lab and meetings with their team this week but was denied access to the facility. This is extremely troubling and raises serious questions about Executive branch closing access to government facilities and preventing Members of Congress from conducting necessary oversight. While I intend to respect the request not to tour the lab this week, it is my intention to visit the lab during the Congressional recess in May. It is essential that Members of Congress have access to federal government facilities, especially those within their districts. I hope this represents a one-time issue and is not part of a broader trend of shutting down access to Members of Congress and the constituents we represent. Cutting EPA’s fuel economy and vehicle emissions budget would create uncertainty, cost jobs, and could potentially allow other nations to gain a competitive edge in this critically important work. Please reject this misguided proposal in any final budget proposal submitted to Congress. Sincerely, Debbie Dingell Member of Congress CC: The Honorable Mick Mulvaney, Director, Office of Management and Budget The Honorable Scott Pruitt, Administrator, US EPA ###
04.18.2017	YPSILANTI, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today worked alongside Meals on Wheels volunteers to deliver hot meals to Ypsilanti residents. "As we learned today while delivering meals, Ypsilanti Meals on Wheels is the only way that some seniors are able to eat and live independent lives." said Dingell. “Some seniors we saw today used to live on the street, and now receive two nutritious meals a day through the program. Meals on Wheels is more than just a meal to homebound seniors in Michigan and across the country, it is survival, a real conversation with someone who cares, and in some cases the only conversation had during the day. Meals on Wheels is a win-win for our communities, and I am committed to protecting funding for this vital program that Michigan seniors rely upon.” “For many seniors, the program is the only way they can afford to eat,” she continued. “10,000 people are turning 65 every single day, and we have to make sure they are going to be taken care of.” President Trump’s 2018 budget proposal calls for cuts to various federal programs including the Department of Housing and Urban Development’s (HUD) Community Development Block Grant program, which provides funding to Meals on Wheels programs nationwide. In Michigan, Meals on Wheels delivers more than 9,998,000 meals each year to homebound persons 60 years or older, or adults with disabilities, who are unable to shop or prepare meals for themselves. Dingell today learned that grants allowed Ypsilanti’s program to eliminate their waitlist in May 2014 so that no senior waits for a meal. Meals on Wheels estimates that providing a year of meals to one senior costs the same as a one day stay in the hospital. With seniors living longer, healthier lives, one of Dingell’s top priorities is improving the country’s long-term care system to ensure seniors can live independently with the highest quality of life for the longest time possible. Programs like Meals on Wheels that allow seniors to age with dignity in their own homes are critical to that effort.
04.10.2017	DEARBORN, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) will host and participate in dozens of events while Congress is out of session from April 10-23, including a number of town halls and community forums. These events will provide an opportunity for members of the community to ask questions and receive an update on federal efforts to protect healthcare and the environment, and other key issues. “My top priority while I’m home is to meet and talk with as many members of the community as possible,” said Dingell. “These are unique and challenging times, and many are concerned about the future of healthcare, the safety of their job and our democracy, and attacks on the Great Lakes and the environment. I will take their ideas and concerns back to Washington as we continue to fight for our shared values and work to make progress on the issues that matter to hardworking families.” Two upcoming town halls are listed below. Additional events will be announced throughout the two-week period. TODAY: Monday, April 10, 2017 WHAT: Dingell to participate in a town hall with Indivisible Downriver WHEN: 7:30-9 p.m., Monday, April 10 WHERE: Southgate Veterans’ Memorial Library 14680 Dix-Toledo Rd. Southgate, MI 48195 Thursday, April 13, 2017 WHAT: Dingell to participate in a town hall with State Rep. Kristy Pagan to discuss the federal healthcare proposal and proposed budget cuts – including cuts to the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative and Meals on Wheels – and other issues WHEN: 6:30-7:30 p.m., Thursday, April 13 WHERE: Belleville High School 501 W Columbia Ave. Belleville, MI 48111 Members of the community who wish to attend may RSVP to kristypagan@house.mi.gov.
04.07.2017	DEARBORN, MI - Congresswomen Debbie Dingell (D-MI) and Barbara Comstock (R-VA), along with Congressmen Scott Taylor (R-VA) and Carlos Curbelo (R-FL), yesterday introduced House Resolution 257 (H.Res.257), which condemns ethnic, religious, and racial hate crimes. The resolution is the House companion to Senate Resolution 118 (S.Res.118), which passed unanimously on Thursday in the United States Senate. “The rising wave of hatred, Islamophobia and anti-Semitism facing our nation is unacceptable,” said Dingell. “Threats against Mosques, Jewish Day Centers, and other religious institutions and gathering places have left communities scared, terrified and on edge. This is not who we are. I am proud to work with my friend Congresswoman Comstock to bring together our colleagues – Democrats and Republicans – to reject hate crimes against all members of our community. We cannot let fear divide us. We are all Americans, and there is far more that unites than divides us. We must be united in fighting hatred in all forms.” “Our diversity is what makes our country and our communities great and I’m pleased to join my friend and colleague, Rep. Debbie Dingell, in introducing this resolution,” said Comstock. “Our communities and law enforcement must remain vigilant about those who would perpetrate hate crimes, which divides our communities and strikes fear in any number of ethnic groups or religious minorities. We stand united against such violence and discrimination, and encourage law enforcement at all levels to work together to curb these actions.” Background: The House resolution, like its Senate companion, cites trends in violent incidents targeting Jewish, Muslim, African-American, Hindu, and Sikh communities. It also mentions the vandalism of Jewish cemeteries, bomb threats against Jewish community centers, and burning of mosques and Islamic centers. The resolution calls on federal law enforcement, working with state and local officials, to investigate all credible reports of these occurrences in the United States, hold perpetrators accountable, and bring them to justice. You can read the full resolution here.
04.07.2017	TRENTON, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement on last night’s U.S. airstrikes in Syria. “This week’s horrific chemical weapons attack perpetrated by the Syrian government left at least 70 innocent men, women and children dead. This brutal assault was the latest in a long series of atrocities carried out by the Assad regime against its own people. The U.S. and the international community have a moral responsibility to seek a solution that ends the violence and helps the Syrian people escape this terror. To watch innocent men, women and children die is unacceptable. “Last night’s airstrike was in response to the brutal chemical attack against the Syrian people. It is my strong belief that if the President intends to escalate the U.S. military’s involvement in Syria, he must come to Congress for an Authorization for Use of Military Force. The Constitution requires it. We must develop a comprehensive strategy, in partnership with our allies around the world, that ends the conflict in Syria in a way that restores stability, provides a safe haven to those fleeing the violence, and protects our brave men in women in uniform.”
04.06.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today sent a letter to Lieutenant General Todd T. Semonite, commanding general and chief of engineers at the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, regarding a proposal to ship large quantities of hazardous, contaminated material waste from Ohio to Michigan for disposal. Serious concerns and questions have been raised by local officials, and Dingell is seeking answers on behalf of the community to ensure they are fully informed and afforded the transparency and input they deserve. “Every American deserves peace of mind in knowing their future health and safely is not in jeopardy, nor the environment, as we work to clean up contaminated sites of the past,” Dingell wrote. “Many local officials and the public are deeply concerned about the impacts of disposing contaminated waste in their backyard. As a matter of public and environmental health and safety, we look forward to receiving your response on this important issue facing so many across Southeast Michigan.” The full letter can be read here and below. April 6, 2017 Lieutenant General Todd T. Semonite Commanding General and Chief of Engineers U.S. Army Corps of Engineers 441 G St NW Washington, DC 20314 Dear Lieutenant General Semonite: This letter is in regards to numerous reports that the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers has proposed actions to ship large quantities of hazardous, contaminated material waste from Ohio to Michigan for disposal. Serious concerns and questions have since been raised by local officials and communities in Michigan. While full remediation of contaminated sites across the United States—like the Lackey, Ohio site—is important work, we have a responsibility to ensure over the course of any cleanup that public health and the environment remain protected. We also have a responsibility to keep the public fully informed throughout the remediation process and foster collaboration at all levels. In this case, we are hearing many local officials were never informed. Every American deserves peace of mind in knowing their future health and safely is not in jeopardy, nor the environment, as we work to clean up contaminated sites of the past. In order to ensure our communities fully understand your actions and are afforded the transparency and input they deserve, we are requesting a full briefing on the current proposal and answers to the following questions: 1. Why was U.S. Ecology Michigan selected as one of the two disposal sites for this contaminated waste? 2. How is the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers working with federal, state, and local officials to ensure all stakeholders and the public are informed throughout this process? What actions are you taking now and in the future to ensure this process is safe for everyone involved, including the environment? 3. What resources, if any, does the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers need to ensure the remediation process and disposal of these contaminated material are one hundred percent safe? 4. What are the specific requirements outlined by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers that need to be met when determining whether or not a disposal site is capable of handling hazardous or contaminated waste? 5. When is the contaminated waste scheduled to be transported from the Luckey, Ohio site to the U.S. Ecology Michigan landfill? Please provide a full timeline. 6. How much contaminated waste is being shipped for disposal in Michigan? What specific contaminated materials will be transported and disposed? What is the specific level of contamination of this waste? 7. How will the contaminated materials be safely disposed of to protect public health and our environment for future generations? And how long will it take to safely dispose of the materials? What oversight measures are in place to ensure hazardous materials are properly and safely disposed? 8. Is the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers required to notify Congress, state, or local officials when moving hazardous materials across state lines, such as contaminated radioactive waste? Is Congress required to be notified when hazardous materials are going to be disposed of in a member’s district? 9. We are hearing from many that are concerned and worried. If the community decides they do not want the proposed contaminated waste to be disposed of at U.S. Ecology Michigan, what options are available to the public and local officials at this point? Thank you for your prompt attention to these critical questions. Many local officials and the public are deeply concerned about the impacts of disposing contaminated waste in their backyard. As a matter of public and environmental health and safety, we look forward to receiving your response on this important issue facing so many across Southeast Michigan. Sincerely, Debbie Dingell Member of Congress CC: The Honorable Rick Snyder, Governor, State of Michigan The Honorable Heidi Grether, Director, Michigan Department of Environmental Quality The Honorable Kevin McNamara, Supervisor, Van Buren Township The Honorable Warren C. Evans, Wayne County Executive
04.06.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12), Vice-Chair of the House Democratic Caucus Seniors Task Force, joined Congressman John Larson (CT-05) in introducing legislation to strengthen and enhance the Social Security program for future generations. H.R. 1902, the Social Security 2100 Act, will provide a benefit bump for current and future beneficiaries and keep the system strong for generations to come. “Seniors matter and we have a moral obligation to fight for them and to be their voice in strengthening and protecting Social Security,” Dingell said. “Social Security helped move millions of seniors out of poverty and it is now the backbone of our safety net. This legislation will build on the original legislation co-authored by my father-in-law John Dingell, Sr. and championed by FDR. Both observed when Social Security was signed into law more than 80 years ago that seniors should be able to retire with dignity and not face poverty in old age. At a time when Americans are feeling less secure about retirement, we need to keep our promise to them. We should enhance the one program they have been able to depend on and ensure it is strong, solvent and workable for decades to come.” The Social Security 2100 Act provides: Tax cut for over 10 million Social Security recipients by raising the threshold on taxation of benefits Benefit bump beginning in 2018 for current and new beneficiaries Protection for low income workers by raising the minimum benefit from below the poverty line to 25% above Long term protection against inflation for cost of living adjustments (COLA) by adopting the CPI-E formula Social Security remains the single most reliable program for working Americans. The program has never missed a payment and is expected to pay full benefits over the next two decades. With commonsense steps like those in the Social Security 2100 Act, Congress can boost this vital program now and ensure Social Security remains strong well into the future. The Social Security 2100 Act is cosponsored by 156 Members of the House of Representatives.
04.05.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today released the following statement after the U.S. Marine Corps announced that charges have been referred to General Court-Martial against Gunnery Sergeant Joseph A. Felix and Sergeant Michael K. Eldridge, which include charges related to the death of Private Raheel Siddiqui from Taylor, Michigan. “What happened to Private Siddiqui at Parris Island was more than a dereliction of duty – it was a tragedy that stole a son and a brother from his family and robbed a young man of his life and dream of serving the country he loved. We have a moral responsibility to hold those responsible accountable and pursue justice for the Siddiqui family, but the reality is, no matter what we do we can never bring him back. A young man is dead, and we must ensure a tragedy like this never happens again. “As these proceedings move forward, I will continue to work closely with the Marine Corps to ensure those responsible are held to account. Additionally, since the investigation has given no specific evidence of suicide, I am determined to work with the Marine Corps, the family and all stakeholders to re-examine the autopsy report and get a more fair and neutral finding on cause of death. We will never know what happened that day, but it is very clear to me and others based on the facts revealed in the investigation that it was not Private Siddiqui’s intention to take his own life. I will not stop working alongside his family and the Marine Corps until the determination is changed to more accurately reflect the events of that day so we can bring some measure of peace to the Siddiqui family.” Dingell has been in constant communication with the Marine Corps since Private Siddiqui’s death on March 18, 2016. She wrote General Neller seeking further clarification on the circumstances surrounding Siddiqui’s death, and consistently pressed for additional information about the investigation into drill instructors and senior leadership at Parris Island.
04.04.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today marked Equal Pay Day by cosponsoring the Paycheck Fairness Act to ensure women across the country earn equal pay for equal work. “Equal Pay Day is the day when, more than three months into the year, women’s earnings finally catch up to what men earned in 2016,” Dingell said. “Women working full-time, year-round still earn on average 80 cents for every dollar earned by men, and the pay gap is even worse for women of color. It’s not a myth, but a harsh reality that as far as we’ve come, we still have work to do to ensure women are paid equally for doing the same job. “The Paycheck Fairness Act takes a critical step toward addressing this disparity by strengthening and closing loopholes in the Equal Pay Act of 1963. This is not just a women’s issue – it matters to our children and families and our economy as a whole. With less take-home pay, women have less for the everyday needs of their families – groceries, rent, child care and doctor’s visits – money that would go back into our local economies. Women and their families deserve equal pay for equal work, and we’re calling on our colleagues to pass the Paycheck Fairness Act to help close the wage gap once and for all.” More than five decades after the passage of the Equal Pay Act of 1963, Michigan women still only earn 74 cents for every dollar earned by their male counterparts. The gap is even wider for women of color, with African-American women making 64 cents on the dollar, and Hispanic women making just 57 cents for every dollar earned by a man. At the rate of change between 1960 and 2015, women will not see pay equality with men until 2059. The Paycheck Fairness Act would strengthen and close loopholes in the Equal Pay Act by holding employers accountable for discriminatory practices, ending the practice of pay secrecy, easing workers’ ability to individually or jointly challenge pay discrimination, and strengthening the available remedies for wronged employees.
03.31.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement regarding two executive orders signed by President Trump that direct the Administration to release a report examining the causes of U.S. trade deficits and collect unpaid trade penalties. “The working men and women of my district need and deserve real changes to U.S. trade policy that level the playing field for the American worker and bring jobs back to this country. During his campaign, President Trump understood the fear and anxiety workers felt about another bad trade deal that would ship jobs overseas. His message resonated, but the executive orders signed today do not address the core issues he made the centerpiece of his campaign. “Enforcing penalties against countries that break the rules is a first step, but what we need is real action on currency manipulation, the mother of all trade barriers. We need strong rules of origin for autos and auto parts and we need to renegotiate NAFTA in a way that puts working families first. My district is the heart and soul of the American auto industry – we know the impact of bad trade deals firsthand – and I stand ready to work toward a new trade agenda that levels the playing field and creates jobs here at home.” In February, Dingell and her colleagues introduced a Blueprint for America’s New Trade Policy, a resolution outlining principles that must be included in any replacement of NAFTA, including enforceable protections against currency manipulation and strong rules of origin for cars and auto parts. For more information, please click here.
03.31.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and Congressman Mike Bishop (MI-08) sent a bipartisan letter to Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price that addresses the serious concerns with the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) proposed cuts to Medicare Advantage (MA) Retiree Coverage, also known as Employer Group Waiver Plans (EGWP). “In Michigan alone, there are over 400,000 retirees including labor union, state and local government and private employer retirees who rely on Medicare Advantage Retiree Coverage. This proposed reduction would jeopardize the high quality health care that they depend on for their health and financial security,” the letter states. “We urge you to ensure that these seniors maintain their retirement certainty and avoid disruption by stopping this proposed reduction to MA Retiree Coverage in the 2018 Final Notice.” Last year, despite the delegation’s effort, the proposed 3 to 4 percent cuts were finalized. This year, CMS has come back with an additional 1.25 percent proposed cut to these plans. This would lead to higher out-of-pocket costs and reduced benefits for more than 400,000 beneficiaries in Michigan who rely on this coverage. “Not just in Michigan, but throughout the entire country, MA retiree Coverage delivers proven care coordination and disease management activities, as well as comprehensive drug benefits that significantly reduce out-of-pocket costs for the most vulnerable retirees, and includes essential broad provider networks that ensure retirees have access to providers, even in the most rural areas,” the letter continues. “We strongly urge CMS to avoid any further negative impacts to groups and return to the pre-2017 EGWP payment policy.” Led by Reps. Dingell and Bishop, the letter was signed by Reps. Jack Bergman (MI-01); Bill Huizenga (MI-02); John Moolenaar (MI-04); Dan Kildee (MI-05); Fred Upton (MI-06); Tim Walberg (MI-07); Sander Levin (MI-09); Paul Mitchell (MI-10); Dave Trott (MI-11); and Brenda Lawrence (MI-14). The full text can be read below and at this link. Dear Mr. Secretary: We are writing to express our deep concerns regarding the proposed reduction to Medicare Advantage (MA) Retiree Coverage (also referred to as Employer Group Waiver Plans) included in the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) CY 2018 Advance Notice. In Michigan alone, there are over 400,000 retirees including labor union, state and local government and private employer retirees who rely on Medicare Advantage Retiree Coverage. This proposed reduction would jeopardize the high quality health care that they depend on for their health and financial security. We urge you to ensure that these seniors maintain their retirement certainty and avoid disruption by stopping this proposed reduction to MA Retiree Coverage in the 2018 Final Notice. In 2017, CMS proposed and partially implemented an alternate payment policy that resulted in a 3-4% reduction of benefits and higher out-of-pocket costs forcing some beneficiaries to exit out of the MA program. The proposal in the 2018 Advance notice seeks to move forward and fully implement the new payment methodology which is estimated to further reduce payments to EGWPs by 1.25%. The significant reduction in payment to MA group plans far outweighs the purported administrative benefits of no longer submitting bids. We strongly urge CMS to avoid any further negative impacts to groups and return to the pre-2017 EGWP payment policy. The proposal greatly shortens the period of time plan sponsors have to communicate with retirees regarding benefit options available to them which compromises the ability of retirees to make informed decisions on their coverage. Also, because of the cut in payments and difficulty in meeting obligations to communicate with retirees, some plan sponsors might leave Medicare Advantage, thereby diminishing the quality of care available to retirees. Not just in Michigan, but throughout the entire country, MA retiree Coverage delivers proven care coordination and disease management activities, as well as comprehensive drug benefits that significantly reduce out-of-pocket costs for the most vulnerable retirees, and includes essential broad provider networks that ensure retirees have access to providers, even in the most rural areas. If the proposal in the 2018 Advance Notice is implemented, these retirees would experience significant disruption in their coverage, including reduced access to health care options and services, fewer choices of providers and unexpected additional out-of-pocket costs. It is critical that the 3.6 million seniors throughout the country with MA Retiree Coverage continue to have access to high quality, affordable, and coordinated health care options available through this option. Respectfully, we ask that you stop the proposed reductions to MA Retiree Coverage and preserve the healthcare security of these retirees by supporting the innovative and high quality care offered by this important program.
03.28.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement after President Trump signed an executive order dismantling a number of programs designed to combat climate change. “Today the President rolled back years of progress to reduce carbon emissions, decrease pollution and make our environment a better, cleaner place to live. In Michigan and throughout the Great Lakes region, we know that we do not own the earth; we merely borrow it from future generations. This short-sighted executive order abdicates our responsibility to leave the earth better than we found it for our children and grandchildren. “Today’s decision ignores the reality of climate change while signaling to the world that we are no longer willing to be a leader in addressing one of our most pressing global challenges, nor are we prepared to take advantage of the opportunities that come with the clean energy economy. Other countries will willingly step up and take our place, and both our environment and economy will suffer as a result. “We cannot afford to stand on the sidelines and watch the dismantling of the progress that has been made to protect the environment and the health of the American people. Congress needs to come together to ensure our nation stays on a path to a cleaner, more sustainable future.”
03.28.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement after Ford announced a $1.2 billion investment in three Michigan manufacturing facilities, including plans to invest $850 million in the Michigan Assembly Plant and $200 million for an advanced data center at Flat Rock to support production of connected, autonomous and electrified vehicles. “Today’s announcement is further proof of Ford’s commitment to producing in Michigan and the United States. Ford’s roots run deep in Michigan’s 12th District, and these investments bolster the company’s dedication to building its highest-tech vehicles here in the U.S. and strengthen its commitment to American workers, who are the best in the world. Ford’s announcement of a new advanced data center at the Flat Rock Assembly Plant also further positions the company as a leader in the future of mobility, including the development of connected and automated vehicles which have the potential to improve safety and save lives. This is a day to celebrate U.S. manufacturing as it continues to grow and evolve and support American jobs, and pledge to continue working together to keep Michigan and the U.S. at the forefront of innovation and technology.”
03.24.2017	U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement after Republican leadership decided to pull its proposal to repeal the Affordable Care Act (ACA) from the floor. “Today, bipartisan members of the House of Representatives came together to reject Republican’s disastrous proposal to repeal the Affordable Care Act because it was crystal clear this legislation would have devastating consequences for the seniors, children and working families we represent. The nonpartisan CBO confirmed this proposal would push 24 million Americans off their healthcare, end Healthy Michigan, which has extended coverage to nearly 700,000 people in our state, and drastically increase healthcare costs for older Americans. “This was the wrong direction for our country, and I want to thank everyone from Michigan’s 12th District and across the state who made their voices heard. Today’s victory shows how engaged citizens can make a difference. “Our work is not done. It is now time to work together in a bipartisan way to build off the progress we’ve made and find real solutions to improve the ACA for the American people. I strongly believe that every American has a right to affordable, quality health care and will continue working toward that goal.”
03.22.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – As the House of Representatives prepares to vote on Republican’s proposal to repeal the Affordable Care Act (ACA) that will take the country backwards, former Congressman John Dingell reminds us of the decades-long history of healthcare reform with a tweet storm. “For those who didn’t realize healthcare could be so complicated, John Dingell offered a history lesson last night about the long effort to ensure healthcare is a right, and not a privilege, for all Americans,” said Congresswoman Debbie Dingell. Congressman Dingell, who fought for more than 50 years for legislation to provide quality, affordable healthcare to all, expressed concern that the rushed, reckless repeal bill proposed by Republicans will undo all the progress made and hurt too many Americans. Click here for a history lesson by Congressman John Dingell.
03.21.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and U.S. Senator Tom Udall (NM) introduced a bill to boost the creative economy and support the development of jobs and arts businesses in Michigan, New Mexico and across the nation. Understanding the importance of the arts to successful businesses and state economies, Dingell and Udall’s bill - the Comprehensive Resources for Entrepreneurs in the Arts to Transform the Economy (CREATE) Act - would support artists, entrepreneurs and workers in growing their businesses, accessing federal resources and funding, and expanding their networks with local communities. “From the beats of Motown to the Henry Ford Museum; and from the Michigan Opera Theatre to the local galleries, museums, artisans and entrepreneurs that enrich our towns and cities – Michigan’s diverse and vibrant arts community is part of the fabric of our state and a driving force for economic innovation and competitiveness,” said Dingell. “The arts employ tens of thousands of Michiganders and contribute $5 billion to our economy every year. It is critical that we continue to invest in and grow this vital industry, which is why I am proud to introduce the CREATE Act with Senator Udall. Creative people design great products – whether it’s a work of art or an automobile – and are critical to a successful business. This legislation invests in our workforce and creative industries, while ensuring artists have the resources to grow their business and share their artwork so we can continue to attract visitors to our state and create jobs.” “With more artists per capita than any other state, New Mexico is home to one of the most vibrant artistic communities in the nation, and our artists play a vital role in shaping our culture, attracting tourists, and creating jobs. One in 10 jobs in New Mexico is related to arts and culture. We heard enormous support when we first unveiled this bill in New Mexico last year, but we knew it could be improved. I want to thank the many New Mexico artists who offered suggestions and helped shape this updated legislation. They told us that artists and entrepreneurs need more help raising startup funds, and with marketing — so we have added that to the bill,” Udall said. “We are re-introducing the CREATE Act at a time when the arts are facing enormous cuts to funding in our country, making it harder for artists and artistic entrepreneurs to access resources to help grow their businesses and fund their projects. That makes it that much more urgent to pass provisions in this bill to ensure that emerging artists, museums and galleries and artistic entrepreneurs have the support they need to expand our creative economy and create jobs. As the lead Democrat on the Senate Appropriations subcommittee over arts funding, I will continue to fight for strong resources to help protect and grow New Mexico’s creative economy." “Congresswoman Debbie Dingell and Senator Tom Udall know how imperative the arts and creative industries are to the quality of life, place and economy of our communities, states and countries,” said Deb Polich, president and CEO of The Arts Alliance, based in Ann Arbor. “We are grateful to these leaders for their sponsorship of the CREATE Act. Through this act, communities will grow richer in their arts & creative industries, artisans, galleries, museums and creative entrepreneurs. As importantly, the rights and intellectual property of artists and creative professionals will be better protected." “The arts, culture, and creative industries are an increasingly important driver of economic growth and prosperity. In 2014 alone, the creative industries put nearly 89,000 people to work in 10,706 businesses in Michigan – generating nearly $5 billion in wages in leading core industries such as advertising, architecture, design, film/media and broadcasting, and the publishing and printing industry. The CREATE Act will help solidify and accelerate the development of this sector in Michigan and across the country, “said Sarah Triplett, director of public policy for Creative Many Michigan. “Creative Many appreciates the vision and leadership of Congresswoman Dingell and Senator Udall as they introduce this important legislation and we look forward to working alongside these leaders to advance this bill in Congress.” The legislation is divided into three sections; the first would provide support to artists and entrepreneurs to create and sustain arts-related businesses, the second would support museums and arts institutions, and the third would support arts in communities. Key provisions include: Direction that the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) should work with micro-lenders, traditional lenders and regulators to ensure that artists and entrepreneurs have access to micro-loans and that loan program criteria are not discriminatory toward arts-related businesses. Support for the development of SBA technical assistance programs targeted to meet the needs of the creative economy. A requirement that the Economic Development Administration and Rural Development Administration ensure that traditional economic development tools, such as incubators and grant programs, support the arts industry. Updates to the law to allow artists to claim tax deductions for charitable contributions based on the sale value of a piece of artwork, rather than the value of the materials used to create the artwork. The creation of an Artist Corps (similar to the AmeriCorps) within the Corporation for National and Community Service to help expand access to arts and arts education in communities, and to assist art entrepreneurs with grant writing, marketing and financial planning. The creation of a demonstration project to promote creative and performing arts in local economic planning. Measures to expand cultural and educational opportunities for American students and families by encouraging foreign governments to lend artwork to U.S. museums and educational institutions and expediting the visa process for foreign visual and performing artists hosted by American organizations.
03.19.2017	YPSILANTI, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12), State Representatives Donna Lasinski, Ronnie Peterson, Yousef Rabhi and Adam Zemke today held a town hall with Marianne Udow-Phillips, executive director of the Center for Healthcare Research and Transformation to discuss Republican’s proposal to repeal the Affordable Care Act (ACA) and what it means for Michigan. The town hall, moderated by David Fair of WEMU Radio, drew more than 300 attendees to discuss the bill’s impact on the Healthy Michigan program, children, seniors and working families. “With the House of Representatives expected to vote on proposed Republican healthcare legislation this week, many people have questions about its potential impact and what it means to them and their families. We understand the importance of this community having answers and the facts, which is why we are hosting this forum,” said Dingell. “The consequences of this legislation are stark: the nonpartisan CBO confirmed that this bill will push 24 million Americans off their health insurance over the next decade. It will hit seniors from two fronts – rationing Medicaid and charging older Americans five times more for care – and it will end Healthy Michigan, which our children and seniors rely upon, by 2020. At the same time, while hurting working families, this bill will give a $600 billion tax break to the wealthiest. We cannot afford to go backwards. We will continue to fight for the quality, affordable health care every American deserves.” “As a state representative, I have serious concerns about the consequences of repealing the Affordable Care Act for the hundreds of thousands of Michiganders who have gained healthcare since it was enacted,” said Representative Lasinski. “While we in the Michigan Legislature don’t have a direct say in this important federal vote, we are hearing every day from our constituents who are fearful that they will lose their coverage and from our seniors who have learned of the dramatic proposed rate increases. It is imperative that we use our voices to call upon our members of Congress to vote to ensure that residents of Michigan continue to have access to quality, affordable healthcare.” “Michigan made a commitment to its residents when the Healthy Michigan plan was implemented, and it’s simply unacceptable for us to rip the rug out from under them now that they finally have stable insurance coverage,” Representative Peterson said. “We cannot abandon the more than 650,000 Michiganders who now have health care. That’s not who we are as a state, and that’s not who we are as a people.” “Congress is on the precipice of gutting medical care for working-class Michiganders, seniors and people with disabilities,” said Representative Rabhi. “Judging by the turnout and the comments we heard today people are not happy with the Trump/Ryan vision of what healthcare should look like in America.” "As a young Michigander, the Affordable Care Act has been paramount in ensuring that young Michiganders have health coverage while they are young, thus enabling them the freedom to take advantage of their opportunities and dreams without coverage concerns,” said Representative Zemke. “And as a Michigan legislator, the ACA has been paramount in ensuring that 650,000 more Michiganders have coverage through Healthy Michigan. Regardless of age, the ACA provides tremendous benefit for Michigan." Since the ACA was enacted in 2010, the uninsured rate in Michigan has fallen by more than 50 percent, with 695,000 residents gaining coverage. The Republican’s proposal to repeal the ACA threatens to reverse the gains made in coverage and access to care. The ACA repeal bill: Rips health coverage away from 24 million Americans, including 14 million in 2018 alone. Implements an “age tax” for older Americans, which will drastically increase costs seniors pay for their healthcare. Older Americans will be forced to pay premiums five times higher than what others pay for health coverage. Ends Medicaid expansion, which has extended coverage to 695,000 Michiganders through the Healthy Michigan program. Rations care for 76 million Americans by arbitrarily cutting and capping Medicaid, using a program that provides critical health services to the most vulnerable Americans to provide tax cuts for the wealthy. Forces Americans to pay more for less. Working families could see their premiums and deductibles increase by hundreds to thousands of dollars. Fails to protect up to 129 million Americans with pre-existing conditions. Protections only apply for those who maintain continuous coverage. If someone has a lapse in coverage, insurance companies could charge a 30 percent premium increase for an entire year. Defunds Planned Parenthood. Women with nowhere else to turn will lose access to essential preventative care.
03.16.2017	Video of Dingell: &amp;quot;War is being declared on the Great Lakes” WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today warned on the House floor that war is being declared on the Great Lakes. President Trump’s fiscal year 2018 budget proposal released today eliminates funding for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI). The GLRI addresses the biggest threats facing the Great Lakes by investing in projects that clean up toxic pollution, restore wildlife habitat and combat invasive species. “Mr. Speaker, I rise today because war is being declared on the Great Lakes. “Those of us who live in the Great Lakes region recognize that the current times are anything but usual. “The Great Lakes account for 21 percent of the world’s freshwater supply and are a major thoroughfare for transportation, commerce, trade, as well as recreation and tourism. “Critical investments over the last decade have helped clean up and protect these waters, and that work is now in danger. Much is preventable and it must be stopped. “President Trump’s budget released today virtually eliminates funding for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, which will cause significant harm to our communities, jobs, and our way of life. This jeopardizes our ability to fight back against invasive species that threaten the region's biodiversity, including Asian carp. It also impacts vital cleanup projects that ensure our water is safe to drink. And there are those that want to store nuclear waste near the lakes as well. “It’s not a partisan issue; it is an American issue.”
03.16.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement on President Trump’s budget blueprint for fiscal year 2018: “The budget is a statement of our values as a nation, and the blueprint President Trump released today is an egregious affront to the values I believe set this nation apart in the world. “This proposed budget fails to recognize that America’s strength and greatness rely on more than military might, but on investments in diplomacy, in children and working families, and in innovation, education and job training that help our families succeed and keep our nation competitive. This blueprint also eliminates vital programs that protect the environment and public health, including the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, which has been a bipartisan priority for decades. “Those of us who live in the Great Lakes region know that these waters are more than a way of life – they are vital for clean drinking water, jobs and our economy. This shortsighted attempt to zero out funding for the GLRI is unacceptable, and I will work diligently with my colleagues – Democrats and Republicans – to fight this effort and other irresponsible cuts that jeopardize our state and the people I represent.”
03.15.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representatives Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and Tim Walberg (MI-07) today reintroduced “Jessie’s Law,” a bipartisan bill named after Michigan resident Jessie Grubb who tragically died of an opioid overdose last year. Jessie’s Law would help ensure doctors have access to a consenting patient’s prior history of addiction in order to make fully informed care and treatment decisions. Providing this information would help prevent cases like Jessie’s, where a recovering addict in Ann Arbor was unknowingly prescribed and discharged with a powerful opioid that led to her death. Jessie’s Law was introduced last week in the U.S. Senate by Senators Joe Manchin (D-WV) and Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV) with the help of Jessie’s parents from West Virginia, David and Kate Grubb. “As one who has witnessed firsthand all spectrums of this issue, I believe this bill is one of the most important steps we can take in developing effective strategies to protect families and save lives,” said Congresswoman Dingell. “My father suffered from opioid addiction much of his life and we lost my sister to a drug overdose twelve years ago next week. I know the horrible pain of living with family members with addiction and the constant ache of losing someone you love. We have a responsibility to confront this epidemic for families like Jessie’s, and it is important that in our discussions to seek solutions, educate and prevent abuse that we ensure we do not stigmatize those with real and legitimate needs. I live with a man whose constant companion is debilitating pain and who at certain times can barely walk. This proposed bill does exactly that. Jessie’s Law provides information to medical professionals so they have an accurate picture of their patient’s history and can treat them safely and effectively.” “In communities across Michigan and the United States, too many of our friends, neighbors, and family members are struggling with drug addiction,” said Congressman Walberg. “Jessie’s story is a heartbreaking example of needlessly losing a loved one to this battle. It is vital for medical professionals to have access to the information that they need about their patient’s history so they can provide safe treatment and proper care. This bipartisan bill will make a real difference in fighting back against the deadly opioid epidemic and help save lives in our communities.” “After learning of Jessie’s passing, I promised her father that her death would not be in vain,” Senator Manchin said. “Now a year later after her death, I am re-introducing “Jessie’s Law” to make good on that promise and to do all that I can to prevent parents around our country from experiencing the grief that Jessie’s parents feel. It’s devastating knowing that her death was 100 percent preventable and she should still be with us today. We must ensure physicians and other medical professionals have full knowledge of a patient’s previous opioid addiction when determining appropriate medical care. We will not give up until Jessie’s Law is passed into law so her legacy stands long after us.” Living in Ann Arbor, Michigan, Jessie Grubb was in recovery and getting her life back on track after seven years of struggling with addiction. Due to a hip injury while training for a marathon, Jessie underwent surgery in February 2016. Jessie’s parents informed hospital personnel that she was a recovering addict, but that message never made it to the doctor who discharged her. Jessie left with a prescription for 50 oxycodone pills and fatally overdosed that same night.
03.13.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement after the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) released a report detailing the impact of Republican’s proposal to repeal the Affordable Care Act (ACA). “Today’s CBO score confirms what we already knew – that Republican’s proposal to repeal the Affordable Care Act will rip health care away from millions of Americans, while increasing costs and weakening protections for millions more. Under this reckless plan, 14 million Americans will lose their coverage next year and 24 million will be without insurance by 2026. It will gut Medicaid, charge seniors more for care, and end Healthy Michigan by 2020, all in order to give a $600 billion tax cut to the wealthiest Americans. This is the wrong direction for our country. “Instead of rolling back the coverage and protections millions of families depend upon, we should be working together to strengthen health care for all Americans. Putting seniors, children and working families out in the cold is not the answer.”
03.09.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement after voting against Republican’s proposal to repeal the Affordable Care Act (ACA) in the Energy and Commerce Committee. “After more than 27 hours of straight debate in committee, it is clear that the Republican’s proposal to repeal the ACA would mean less coverage, fewer protections and higher costs for the working families and seniors we represent,” said Dingell. “This disastrous proposal would jeopardize the care seniors depend upon, hitting them with a double whammy – a new “age tax” that will drastically increase costs they pay for health care, and rationing care under the Medicaid program. It will rip health care away from millions of Americans and end Medicaid expansion, including Healthy Michigan, which has extended coverage to nearly 700,000 people in our state. The Committee also voted down my amendment to protect seniors’ access to long-term care services and supports under Medicaid. This is simply wrong. “I strongly believe that access to quality, affordable healthcare is a right and not a privilege, and that the best test of our nation’s values is how we treat the most vulnerable among us. By that measure, this legislation fails miserably. It shortens the solvency of the Medicare Trust Fund, threatening coverage for 57 million Americans, and provides $600 billion in tax cuts to the wealthy while leaving working families with higher costs and less coverage. “The math doesn’t add up – and we will not let up. We will continue to stand against this bill and fight for the quality, affordable health care every American deserves. We cannot afford to go backwards.” For video of Dingell’s remarks on the bill, please click here. For video of Dingell’s remarks on her long-term care amendment, please click here. The Republican repeal bill was marked up without a Congressional Budget Office (CBO) score that reveals how much the bill costs and how many people will lose health care coverage. The Republican repeal bill: Implements an “age tax” for older Americans, which will drastically increase costs seniors pay for their healthcare. Older Americans will be forced to pay premiums five times higher than what others pay for health coverage. Rips health care away from millions of Americans by ending Medicaid expansion, which was championed by a Republican governor in Michigan and has covered 695,000 people in the state. Rations care for 76 million Americans by arbitrarily cutting and capping Medicaid, using a program that provides critical health services to the most vulnerable Americans as a piggy bank to pay for tax cuts for the wealthy. Forces Americans to pay more for less. Working families could see their premiums and deductibles increase by hundreds to thousands of dollars. Fails to protect up to 129 million Americans with pre-existing conditions. Protections only apply for those who maintain continuous coverage. If someone has a lapse in coverage, insurance companies could charge a 30 percent premium increase for an entire year. Defunds Planned Parenthood. Women with nowhere else to turn will lose access to essential preventative care.
03.08.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) tonight blasted Republican’s proposal to repeal the Affordable Care Act (ACA) during markup in the Energy and Commerce Committee for negatively impacting seniors, children and working families. The bill would end Medicaid expansion, known as Healthy Michigan, raise costs for seniors, and result in nearly 700,000 Michiganders losing their health care coverage. Video of Dingell’s remarks can be viewed here. Excerpts of the speech can be read below. “I strongly believe the best test of our nation’s values is how we treat the most vulnerable among us – people who during difficult times have nowhere to turn. This is one of the most fundamental roles of government – helping our fellow neighbor who’s down on their luck. That’s part of who we are as Americans. “When judged by this test, this ACA repeal bill before us fails miserably. This bill would be an absolute catastrophe for senior citizens, mothers, children, and those with complex medical conditions.” … “This bill also ends the Medicaid expansion, which has been so successful in my home state of Michigan. The program was championed – and is still championed – by a Republican governor and has covered nearly 700,000 people. “Why would we turn our backs on this? This bill not only ends the successful Medicaid expansion program but it rations care under Medicaid. I find it unconscionable that we are using a program that provides critical health care services to over 70 million of the most vulnerable Americans as a piggy bank to pay for the cost of repealing taxes on the wealthy.” … “Finally, let’s not forget the progress the ACA has made in extending health coverage that coverage to over 20 million Americans. “Before it, the uninsured rate was 18 percent nationally. Almost 47 million Americans did not have health insurance. Today, the rate is down to 10.5 percent. “So the question to this Committee is: will this bill improve upon those gains or will it turn the clock back? So while we are all waiting eagerly for the CBO score, you don’t need to be an economist to figure out that slashing Medicaid, making seniors pay more, and cutting critical financial support to help make insurance more affordable will result in American people…losing their healthcare.” Dingell’s full remarks can be read below. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think a lot of people in this room have amnesia and are remembering a utopia that I don’t remember. I worked for the auto industry back in the time that we were passing this bill, and the reality was that the cost of health care was more than the cost of steel in an automobile. And people couldn’t get access to insurance. More than 62 percent of the personal bankruptcies that were happening in this country were due to the medical costs that people had, and people simply couldn’t afford insurance. And here’s another reality: the average family premiums for employer coverage grew just five percent between 2010 and 2016 compared with an average of eight to ten percent annually for the previous decade. And I did a quick Google and I can find as many stories as you all have about what was happening to people’s personal insurance benefits that were going up – that cost 20 percent, 24 percent. And here’s a reality, since this bill passed more than 20 million Americans have gained access and coverage because they could now afford insurance. There are so many issues with this bill I’m finding it hard to start – where to begin. I strongly believe the best test of our nation’s values is how we treat the most vulnerable among us – people who during difficult times have nowhere to turn. This is one of the most fundamental roles of government – helping our fellow neighbor who’s down on their luck. That’s part of who we are as Americans. When judged by this test, this ACA repeal bill before us fails miserably. This bill would be an absolute catastrophe for senior citizens, mothers, children, and those with complex medical conditions. Let’s start with senior citizens. They are facing a war on two fronts with this repeal bill – a new “age tax” that will drastically increase costs seniors pay for their healthcare, and they will have to deal with rationed care under the Medicaid program. The number one thing I hear from seniors back home is how scared they are. Most of them are living on a fixed income, and they are looking for support in how to lower the costs they face, not increase them. And for any senior watching this today, this repeal bill will mean more costs and fewer benefits for you. This bill also ends the Medicaid expansion, which has been so successful in my home state of Michigan. The program was championed – and is still championed – by a Republican governor and has covered nearly 700,000 people. But the story doesn’t end there. The Healthy Michigan plan is widely supported by our business community and by healthcare providers because of the economic impact it brings to our state. A report by the University of Michigan, which I would ask unanimous consent to put in the record, found that Medicaid expansion is responsible for adding 39,000 jobs in our state in just 2016. Two thirds of these new jobs are outside the healthcare sector. Medicaid expansion is also responsible for increasing personal income in the state by over $2 billion each year through 2021. Why would we turn our backs on this? This bill not only ends the successful Medicaid expansion program but it rations care under Medicaid. I find it unconscionable that we are using a program that provides critical health care services to over 70 million of the most vulnerable Americans as a piggy bank to pay for the cost of repealing taxes on the wealthy. Finally, let’s not forget the progress the ACA has made in extending health coverage that coverage to over 20 million Americans. Before it, the uninsured rate was 18 percent nationally. Almost 47 million Americans did not have health insurance. Today, the rate is down to 10.5 percent. So the question to this Committee is: will this bill improve upon those gains or will it turn the clock back? So while we are all waiting eagerly for the CBO score, you don’t need to be an economist to figure out that slashing Medicaid, making seniors pay more, and cutting critical financial support to help make insurance more affordable will result in American people, many of them, losing their healthcare.
03.08.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) is fighting for quality, affordable health care for every American in the full Energy and Commerce Committee markup of the Republican’s proposal to repeal the Affordable Care Act (ACA). In her opening statement, Dingell said: “Our job is to represent the working men and women and their families of our district and to fight to protect them. Pure and simple: this bill would mean less coverage, fewer protections and higher costs. “I wasn’t in Congress when we passed the Affordable Care Act, but I know someone who was intimately involved in the process – in fact we’re in a room that bears his name. This was his life’s work – and I can tell you that on behalf of John Dingell, Ted Kennedy, President Franklin Delano Roosevelt and the generations of other leaders who fought for the right of every American for quality, affordable health care. We cannot let you take health care away from people who need it most and we will not go down without a fight.” The Republican repeal bill is being marked up without a Congressional Budget Office (CBO) score that reveals how much the bill costs and how many people will lose health care coverage. It includes provisions that will lead to less coverage, fewer protections and higher costs for working families and seniors. The Republican repeal bill: Implements an “age tax” for older Americans, which will drastically increase costs seniors pay for their healthcare. Older Americans will be forced to pay premiums five times higher than what others pay for health coverage. Rips health care away from millions of Americans by ending Medicaid expansion, which was championed by a Republican governor in Michigan and has covered 695,000 people in the state. Rations care for 76 million Americans by arbitrarily cutting and capping Medicaid, using a program that provides critical health services to the most vulnerable Americans as a piggy bank to pay for tax cuts for the wealthy. Forces Americans to pay more for less. Working families could see their premiums and deductibles increase by hundreds to thousands of dollars. Fails to protect up to 129 million Americans with pre-existing conditions. Protections only apply for those who maintain continuous coverage. If someone has a lapse in coverage, insurance companies could charge a 30 percent premium increase for an entire year. Defunds Planned Parenthood. Women with nowhere else to turn will lose access to essential preventative care.
03.06.2017	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, President Trump issued a revised version of his original executive order drastically altering our refugee and visa system. In response, Representatives John Conyers, Jr. (MI-13), Dan Kildee (MI-5), Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) issued the following joint statement: “Some of the details of the executive order may have been repackaged, but the intent and effect remain the same. President Trump has again ordered a Muslim ban that is inconsistent with our values and our Constitution. If the order is allowed to take effect, it will have disastrous consequences for American foreign policy, national security, and immigrant and American families. “While express reference to religious minorities has been removed in this rewritten version, the order is clearly intended to target Muslims. Some tweaks to the text cannot undo President Trump’s well publicized campaign promises to ban Muslims nor his damaging rhetoric, nor can it erase the fact that all six countries identified are majority Muslim countries. “As we saw with the Administration’s first attempt to institute a ban, this policy will cause confusion, separate families, and prevent businesses, universities, and hospitals from bringing in essential personnel. It also slams the door on the world’s most vulnerable people, shutting down the U.S. refugee program even though the program requires more extensive vetting than any other U.S. immigration channel. “Equally important, the revised order makes us less safe. As with the prior order, the revised order diminishes our standing with allies and will likely serve as a recruiting tool for terrorist groups. Indeed, two recently leaked DHS intelligence reports conclude that citizenship is a poor threat indicator and that few people from targeted countries have been involved in terrorism-related activities in the United States. “This order is another short sighted and dangerous policy based on the inflammatory rhetoric that this Administration has made its cornerstone. We continue to stand united in our opposition to these efforts to divide us, and pledge to work together to reject intolerance, discrimination, and hate however and wherever we can – whether in our communities, in Congress, or in the Courts.”
03.06.2017	DEARBORN, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement on President Trump’s new executive order seeking to reinstate his ban preventing Muslims and refugees from entering the United States. “Today’s executive order is simply an attempt to repackage the administration’s harmful and unconstitutional ban on Muslims and refugees. While the administration tried to tweak the glaring problems in the initial ban that led to chaos at airports and unlawful detentions around the country, the fact remains: this is the same ban that targets individuals based on their religion and flies in the face of our Constitution and our values as a nation. “Daily, I hear stories from constituents scared to death about what will happen next. Families who have been part of our communities for decades and are second and third generation Americans are terrified that someone will knock on their door in the middle of the night and force them from this country. Last week, I met with students from the University of Michigan who came to the United States wanting nothing but the best – to receive a world-class education and contribute their knowledge and skills to our economy. Now, they question whether this country even wants them here. This is not who we are. “National security experts, faith leaders, academia and the business community all agree that this ban endangers our national security and dishonors our Constitution and everything our nation stands for. This is not the America I was raised to believe in.”
03.02.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the statement below following reports that Attorney General Jeff Sessions lied under oath during his confirmation hearings about his communications with Russian officials. “If these reports are true, Attorney General Sessions should resign immediately. Every day, we learn more troubling information about the Trump administration’s relationship with Russia that further underscores the need for a bipartisan, independent investigation. The American people deserve answers and assurance that their leaders will protect our democratic institutions and the rule of law.”
02.28.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement after President Trump’s address to a joint session of Congress where she and her women colleagues wore white, the official color of the suffragette movement. “Tonight I was proud to sit with my fellow women colleagues wearing white, united in celebrating the incredible progress women have made in the last century and pledging to continue to support the advancement of all women. We will be working together to ensure that every American has access to affordable quality health care, that we advance policies that create jobs, grow manufacturing, level the playing field for the American worker and protect the Constitution. It was great to have a young woman as my guest tonight who is energized and inspired to continue the tradition of opening the doors wider for the next generation.” Dingell’s guest, Phoebe Hopps, is a community organizer who led the Michigan chapter of the Women’s March on Washington and whose family has been positively impacted by the Affordable Care Act.
02.27.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today sent a letter to U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary John Kelly about significant concerns raised by community leaders, state and local officials, law enforcement officers and others throughout the last week as a result of President Trump’s recent border security and immigration enforcement executive order. “We are a nation of laws, and Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) officials have an extremely important job to do in keeping our border secure and enforcing immigration statutes. ICE also has an equally important responsibility to be transparent in its operations and to clearly communicate with local communities and law enforcement about their policies and activities,” Dingell wrote. “The confusion and anxiety surrounding this immigration enforcement activity is becoming a serious issue among local law enforcement that could harm successful community initiatives implemented to inspire trust and cooperation to improve national security.” To address the concerns raised in both regularly scheduled and emergency community meetings following President Trump’s executive order, Dingell asked Secretary Kelly how ICE is coordinating and briefing local law enforcement and government officials, how they are prioritizing people who will be targeted for immigration enforcement and what steps ICE is taking to protect due process, among other questions. “Many other community groups are also being forced to cancel meetings and victims of domestic violence or sexual assault are afraid to report crimes as I learned at a regular meeting with survivors at SafeHouse in Ann Arbor this past Friday. Furthermore, vetted asylum seekers, green card holders and even American citizens with passports are unsure about their futures, and our universities need guidance for serving students who are legally attending school here,” Dingell wrote. “We would also hope that enforcement actions would prioritize people with serious criminal records who pose an immediate threat to the security and safety of our communities.” The letter can be read here and below. February 27, 2017 The Honorable John Kelly Secretary U.S. Department of Homeland Security 800 7th Street SW Washington, D.C. 20024 Dear Secretary Kelly: Our national security and the safety of the American public are paramount responsibilities of government at all levels. In the course of regularly scheduled meetings in my Congressional district on a host of issues with law enforcement agents, local and state elected officials and community organizations, several concerns have arisen regarding the implementation of President Trump’s border security and immigration enforcement executive order. We are a nation of laws, and Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) officials have an extremely important job to do in keeping our border secure and enforcing immigration statutes. ICE also has an equally important responsibility to be transparent in its operations and to clearly communicate with local communities and law enforcement about their policies and activities. Routine meetings became very intense this week, with both the issuing of new executive orders as well as reports of increased targeted enforcement actions generating a great deal of uncertainty and confusion. More specifically, many in our communities have perceived these actions as raids which has heightened tensions, eroded trust in law enforcement at all levels and sowed fear. The confusion and anxiety surrounding this immigration enforcement activity is becoming a serious issue among local law enforcement that could harm successful community initiatives implemented to inspire trust and cooperation to improve national security. This very issue surfaced at a meeting last week of BRIDGES (Building Respect in Diverse Groups to Enhance Sensitivity) whose mission is dedicated to providing a regular forum for the Arab-American community to discuss issues of concern and build up trust with federal agencies. It was founded post 9-11 to help support our national security, and it has done just that. Participants include leaders of the Arab-American Community, government officials and law enforcement representatives including the U.S. Attorney, FBI, ICE, DHS, USCIS, and Customs and Border Protection among others. Many other community groups are also being forced to cancel meetings and victims of domestic violence or sexual assault are afraid to report crimes as I learned at a regular meeting with survivors at SafeHouse in Ann Arbor this past Friday. Furthermore, vetted asylum seekers, green card holders and even American citizens with passports are unsure about their futures, and our universities need guidance for serving students who are legally attending school here. Recognizing the important work you do in protecting our national security, many of us in Congress, Democrats and Republicans alike, have advocated for comprehensive immigration reform as a more effective, stable and long term way to secure our border and protect national security while staying true to our values as a nation. Since this doesn't seem likely to occur soon, and with the Administration’s new executive order, there are a number of critical issues that need clarification for local communities. We would also hope that enforcement actions would prioritize people with serious criminal records who pose an immediate threat to the security and safety of our communities. It is also reported that the Executive Office for Immigration Review is scheduling hearings well into 2019 with a significant backlog in the Detroit area and is being adjudicated by a panel of just three immigration judges and with an existing vacancy for a fourth opening. This is also concerning for due process and civil rights protections. Over the weekend and this morning, because there are so many questions and concerns in our communities, government officials at all levels, law enforcement officials and community leaders have been asked to participate in numerous emergency meetings. This morning the heads of all law enforcement entities and local municipalities met seeking to clarify a number of issues. There were far more questions than answers to the challenges before us in keeping our communities safe, defending the rule of law, and protecting core civil liberties. This letter is a result of this meeting and those of the last ten days seeking information to ensure our communities fully understand your actions and are afforded the transparency they need to do their jobs. We are requesting clarification of your policies and answers to the following questions: 1. How is ICE coordinating and briefing local law enforcement and government officials on enforcement activities in their communities? Are local law enforcement agencies notified ahead of time, or are they briefed about ICE activities afterwards? 2. What is ICE doing locally in communities across the country keep the public informed of their activities to provide transparency? 3. How are DHS and ICE prioritizing people who will be targeted for immigration enforcement? In a nation built on the premise of innocent until proven guilty, will actual convictions take precedent over criminal charges that have yet to be adjudicated? Moreover, with respect to convictions, will serious crimes such as felonies be prioritized over misdemeanors? In essence, what steps is ICE taking to insure due process? 4. How does ICE inform a detainee of their rights and legal options? Does ICE inform family members or next of kin when a person is detained? 5. In Michigan, there are limited detention facilities and judges able to carry out immigration hearings. For those individuals detained, how long can they expect to remain in custody before having a hearing? What is the current backlog? 6. How is DHS working with local law enforcement to provide assistance for immigrant victims of domestic violence or sexual abuse? Will DHS be issuing new guidance? 7. We have heard stories from business owners of local businesses being targeted by scams from people posing as ICE agents. What is the process for any federal agency to properly identify themselves to a business owner during an enforcement operation? 8. Some children who are American citizens and need to obtain a passport are encountering difficulties obtaining one due to complicated situations such as living in a home with domestic abuse, etc. How will minors who are legally in the United States be afforded an unfettered opportunity to obtain a passport and be protected in unsafe situations? 9. Schools are reporting higher cases of absenteeism because children are afraid to leave their homes for fear they may be separated from their families. What guidance will be provided to local schools and social service agencies to ensure that these children receive the educational and social services they are legally obligated to receive? 10. How much funding and what new resources are needed to execute this shift in policy? 11. What impact will this policy have on Freedom House and the people it serves who have legitimate claims for and are seeking asylum in the United States? 85 percent of their clients are granted asylum on their first interview, and they are now afraid to allow them to walk out the front door. 12. Under Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA), the government committed to offer temporary work permits and protection from deportation to people who arrived in the United States as children. Is DHS committed to adhering to and continuing the DACA program moving forward? How many DACA protected immigrants have been detained during your escalated enforcement activities? What actions are being taken to prevent those protected under DACA from deportation? What does the DHS suggest we tell these young people going forward? 13. We are learning that individuals are afraid to seek medical treatment and may be contributing to public health risks. How do we assure that people can seek medical treatment and be safe? 14. It is my understanding that U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) has the authority to conduct warrantless vehicle searches within 100 miles of an international border, and the entire State of Michigan falls under that definition. According to the ACLU of Michigan, only two percent of foreign citizens who are stopped by CBP have a criminal record, and 40 percent of people processed are either U.S. citizens or foreign citizens lawfully in the United States. What policies does CBP have in place to ensure that this authority is being implemented in a manner that is not contrary to the Fourth Amendment’s prohibition on unreasonable searches and seizures? 15. It is my understanding that DHS has designated schools, hospitals, and places of worship as “sensitive locations” where enforcement actions should generally be avoided. Is this policy still in place today? Under what circumstances would ICE consider conducting an enforcement action at a sensitive location? Given these pressing questions by community leaders, local and state government officials, law enforcement agencies, judges and concerned citizens, a timely response is requested. It is my understanding that many other communities across the nation have similar questions and experiences. Thank you for your assistance with these important issues. Sincerely, Debbie Dingell Member of Congress
02.24.2017	DEARBORN, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) will host Congress in Your Community at the Ann Arbor Farmers Market tomorrow, Saturday, February 25 from 8:30-9:30 a.m. Congress in Your Community provides an opportunity for members of the community to conveniently discuss issues and concerns with Dingell and her staff and take advantage of services provided through her office. Constituents across the 12th District are welcome to attend and no appointment is necessary. For questions or additional information, please call Dingell’s Dearborn office at 313-278-2936. Saturday, February 25, 2017 WHAT: Dingell to host Congress in Your Community in Ann Arbor WHEN: 8:30-9:30 a.m., Saturday, February 25 WHERE: Ann Arbor Farmers Market (outside the Sweetwaters Café), 407 N. Fifth Ave., Ann Arbor, MI
02.24.2017	DEARBORN, MI – U.S. Representatives Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and David Trott (MI-11) today sent a letter to Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Scott Pruitt urging him to expedite review of Enbridge’s work plan and inspection schedule for the Line 5 Pipeline that runs between the Straits of Mackinac in northern Michigan. The work plan lists numerous locations on the pipeline where the protective coating may be weakening or missing. EPA must approve the plan this spring in order for the inspections to move forward this year. “As you know, 23 million gallons of oil flow through the two pipelines in the Straits of Mackinac every day. A spill in that location would have a devastating impact on the Great Lakes and the economy of the surrounding states” the Representatives wrote. “On September 27, 2016, Enbridge identified several potential ‘holidays’ on the pipeline where there may be a loss of protective coating around the pipe. We urge you to review Enbridge’s work plan in an expedited fashion so these vulnerabilities can be investigated as soon as possible.” In 2010, an Enbridge-operated pipeline ruptured and spilled an estimated one million gallons of oil into the Kalamazoo River. As a consequence of that leak and other concerns, the EPA reached a signed consent decree with Enbridge. Under the agreement, Enbridge is required to conduct an investigation into how aquatic species are impacting the integrity of additional pipelines under their control. The Line 5 Pipeline is of particular concern due to the potential loss of protective coating that has already been detected by Enbridge. The Great Lakes is the source of over 525,000 Michigan jobs according to a University of Michigan study, and an estimated 700 miles of Great Lakes coastline would be affected if the Line 5 Pipeline were to rupture. “It is our understanding that Enbridge’s work plan must be approved this spring in order for the inspections to move forward this year,” the Representatives continued. “Delaying the inspections another year could allow more corrosion to occur.” The full letter is here and below. February 24, 2017 The Honorable Scott Pruitt Administrator U.S. Environmental Protection Agency 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20460 Dear Administrator Pruitt: This letter is in regards to the Line 5 pipeline operated by Enbridge Energy that runs between the Straits of Mackinac in northern Michigan. Under the terms of their consent decree, Enbridge is required to conduct an investigation into how aquatic species are impacting the integrity of the pipeline. In their “Biota Investigation Work Plan”, which was submitted to EPA on September 27, 2016, Enbridge identified several potential “holidays” on the pipeline where there may be a loss of protective coating around the pipe. We urge you to review Enbridge’s work plan in an expedited fashion so these vulnerabilities can be investigated as soon as possible. As you know, 23 million gallons of oil flow through the two pipelines in the Straits of Mackinac every day. A spill in that location would have a devastating impact on the Great Lakes and the economy of the surrounding states. In fact, a study by the University of Michigan and supported by the National Wildlife Federation found that more than 15% of Lake Michigan’ open water and nearly 60% of Lake Huron’s open water could be affected by visible oil in a spill in the Straits. This only further underscores the urgency of investigating these vulnerabilities as soon as possible. It is our understanding that Enbridge’s work plan must be approved this spring in order for the inspections to move forward this year. Delaying the inspections another year could allow more corrosion to occur. We therefore urge you to review Enbridge’s work plan in an urgent and expeditious manner so inspections can occur this year. Thank you for your attention to this critical issue and we are looking forward to receiving your response. Sincerely, Debbie Dingell David Trott
02.23.2017	DEARBORN, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement on increased enforcement activity by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agents. “We are all concerned and actively seeking more answers about reports of increased enforcement activity by ICE in our communities. These targeted enforcement actions have generated a great amount of uncertainty, and we are hearing that many people are afraid to send their children to school out of fear that they may be arrested and deported. While ICE has an important job to do, their enforcement actions should prioritize people with serious criminal records who pose an immediate threat to the security and safety of our communities. “During these uncertain times, ICE has a responsibility to increase transparency and communicate with local communities about their activities. Anyone who has been impacted by these actions or has concerns should contact my office as we continue to work closely with all stakeholders to ensure our nation’s values are upheld and that people are receiving answers about what is happening in their communities.”
02.22.2017	DEARBORN, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) joined residents, students, College Democrats and Progressives at the University of Michigan last night for a panel discussion on the Affordable Care Act and its impact on local communities. Since the ACA was enacted in 2010, the uninsured rate in Michigan has fallen by more than 50 percent, with 695,000 residents gaining coverage. As Congress debates changes to the law, Dingell is working to protect the critical gains that have been made in coverage and access to care. “The Affordable Care Act has provided a significant benefit to students, families and seniors in Michigan, and the stories we heard reinforce how important it is to protect the progress we’ve made,” said Dingell. “If the ACA is repealed it means an individual who has had cancer may once again be denied coverage because of a pre-existing condition. It means a 22-year-old who is graduating college can no longer stay on their parent’s health plan while looking for a job. It means every American loses access to free preventative services like flu shots and cancer screenings. We cannot afford to go backwards, and I will continue to fight for the health care coverage our students and families rely upon.” “I believe that the Affordable Care Act is an essential element to a healthy campus population and healthy nation,” said Claire Fitzgerald, a senior at U-M. “The idea that some in our government want to further limit access to affordable health care and coverage, when it has done so much to change my life for the better, makes me want to work that much harder to secure health and well-being for all.” Laurie Burchett, manager of the Managed Care/Student Insurance Office at University Health Service, said, “Our office assists insured students with their health insurance questions and uninsured students with enrollment in health insurance coverage. At the onset of the ACA, we saw many students who were able to be added back on their parent’s employer health plan because they were under 26 years old. Since the ACA, we have held several outreach sessions to assist uninsured U-M students with enrollment in Expanded Michigan Medicaid and the Health Insurance Marketplace. Our concern about the uncertain future of ACA is the possibility of students losing their insurance coverage or not being able to afford insurance coverage.” Studies have indicated that ACA repeal would result in 30 million individuals losing their coverage. Additionally, 73,000 young adults in Michigan who were able to stay on a parent’s health insurance plan thanks to the ACA now stand to lose coverage if Congress eliminates the requirement that insurers allow children to stay on their parents’ plans until age 26. “There is no doubt: the current republican proposals to replace major provisions of the Affordable Care Act will not make Americans better off, and those who stand to lose the most are the sick and low income,” said graduate student Michael Budros. Dingell, Fitzgerald, Burchett and Budros were also joined on the panel by Laura March, vice chair of the College Democrats at U-M; and Al Vanderklipp, executive board member of the Progressives at U-M. In Michigan: • 695,000 people have gained health coverage since the ACA was implemented. • 4.5 million people in Michigan now have health plans that cover preventive services without any copays, coinsurance or deductibles. • Roughly 1.6 million people in Michigan have pre-existing health conditions, and could have their coverage rescinded if the ACA is repealed. • 212,000 Michigan seniors have saved an average of $1,100 on their prescription drug coverage thanks to closing the “donut hole” gap in coverage. • Michigan received $3.08 billion in federal Medicaid dollars to implement the Healthy Michigan plan. This revenue could be lost if the ACA is repealed. • A recent University of Michigan study found that Medicaid expansion in Michigan has boosted our economy and our budget and will continue to do so for the next five years. According to the study, the Healthy Michigan plan has generated more than 30,000 new jobs each year – one-third of them being in healthcare and 85 percent in the private sector. These jobs resulted in approximately $2.3 billion more in personal spending power for Michigan residents.
02.18.2017	DEARBORN, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today joined doctors, nurses, patients and administrators at Beaumont Hospital in Dearborn to discuss the importance of protecting the Affordable Care Act and the impact ACA repeal would have on hospitals and patients. Since the ACA was enacted in 2010, the uninsured rate in Michigan has fallen by more than 50 percent, with 695,000 residents gaining coverage. As Congress debates changes to the law, Dingell has been a leader in working to ensure every American has access to affordable, quality health care and that we do not reverse gains in access to coverage and care. “The Affordable Care Act has allowed hundreds of thousands of hardworking Michiganders to gain health insurance for the first time and has benefited millions more, regardless of whether you get coverage through your employer or buy a plan through the Marketplace,” said Dingell. “Thanks to the ACA, all Michigan families have access to free preventative services like flu shots and cancer screenings, and people can no longer be denied coverage because of a pre-existing condition. Anyone proposing to repeal this law with nothing in its place should take a good hard look at what that would mean for families and communities, and that starts right here with facilities like Beaumont Hospital. This is about real people not politics and helping to keep our families healthy at an affordable cost. We cannot take that care away from them.” “As Congress considers changes to our healthcare system, it is critical to hospitals like Beaumont that we build off the gains made by the Affordable Care Act instead of repealing the law with nothing in its place. We’re thankful to Congresswoman Dingell for convening this meeting today to listen to our concerns,” said Dr. Malcom Henoch, senior vice president and associate chief medical officer for acute care at Beaumont Health. “At Beaumont, we believe that the most important aspect of delivering care is ensuring our patients have full and robust access to care and health insurance. Any changes should protect the more than 600,000 Michiganders who now receive insurance through the Healthy Michigan plan and the 340,000 Michiganders who have care through the marketplace. The ACA is not perfect but it has provided access to care where there was none before, and we should build off these gains rather than moving backwards.” Dingell and Dr. Henoch were joined during the discussion by Kelly Smith, president of Beaumont Hospital, Dearborn; John Kerndl, executive vice president and CFO at Beaumont Health; Mary Zatina, vice president for government relations and community affairs at Beaumont Health; as well as doctors, nurses and clinicians who shared how repeal of the Affordable Care Act would impact their patients. Dr. Lakshmi Swaminathan said, "Because of the ACA, patients are able to get coverage for medication, some of which can be lifesaving, and can prevent readmissions to the hospital. These can include medications that are used to keep arteries open after heart attacks, and help regulate diabetes.” Studies have indicated that ACA repeal would result in 30 million individuals losing their coverage and cause health care providers, including hospitals and doctors, to see a dramatic surge in uncompensated care – $88 billion in 2019 alone and $1.1 trillion over ten years – which would be crippling to hospitals across the country. Additionally, in Michigan: 695,000 people have gained health coverage since the ACA was implemented. 4.5 million people in Michigan now have health plans that cover preventive services without any copays, coinsurance or deductibles. Roughly 1.6 million people in Michigan have pre-existing health conditions, and could have their coverage rescinded if the ACA is repealed. 212,000 Michigan seniors have saved an average of $1,100 on their prescription drug coverage thanks to closing the “donut hole” gap in coverage. Michigan received $3.08 billion in federal Medicaid dollars to implement the Healthy Michigan plan. This revenue could be lost if the ACA is repealed. A recent University of Michigan study found that Medicaid expansion in Michigan has boosted our economy and our budget and will continue to do so for the next five years. According to the study, the Healthy Michigan plan has generated more than 30,000 new jobs each year – one-third of them being in healthcare and 85 percent in the private sector. These jobs resulted in approximately $2.3 billion more in personal spending power for Michigan residents.
02.16.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today joined Congressman Peter DeFazio (OR-04) in introducing a Blueprint for America’s New Trade Policy, a resolution outlining principles that must be included in any replacement of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). “Michigan is the heart and soul of the American auto industry, and since NAFTA passed, we’ve seen factories shuttered and jobs lost, we’ve seen real income drop for too many workers, and we’ve seen too many families lose hope,” said Dingell. “We now have a real opportunity to renegotiate this failed trade agreement in a way that puts working families first. President Trump said this would be one of his top priorities. This resolution provides a roadmap to level the playing field for the American worker and bring jobs back to this country. We’re here and ready to get to work.” The resolution has been endorsed by the AFL-CIO, Teamsters, United Steelworkers (USW), International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers (IAMAW), Communications Workers of America (CWA), Public Citizen, and Citizens Trade Campaign. The resolution includes adding strong, enforceable protections against currency manipulation and requiring strong rules of origin for cars and auto parts, which is critical for Michigan’s economy and the domestic auto industry. Currently, NAFTA rules require that automobiles be only 62.5 percent “made in North America” to qualify for duty-free treatment. The resolution requires that the auto rule of origin be upgraded so that 90 percent of a product must be made in North America.
02.14.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, in an Energy and Commerce subcommittee hearing titled “Self-driving Cars: Road to Deployment,” U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) challenged the United States to stay at the forefront of innovation and technology in the development and deployment of automated vehicles while ensuring consumer safety is protected. “Automated vehicles are already helping transform mobility in this country,” said Dingell. “With 35,000 deaths on the road each year, this technology has the potential to improve safety and save lives. It is also an issue of economic competitiveness. Automated vehicles will be developed globally whether we like it or not, and it is critical that America be at the forefront of innovation and technology by taking the lead in developing these potentially life-saving advances. “We heard from our witnesses today about existing regulations and barriers that could inhibit the deployment of automated vehicles once they are proven safe, including the fact that existing Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards assume a human driver is always operating the car, and avoiding a patchwork of state laws. Our challenge now is to make sure we’re protecting the consumer while not impeding technological development. Congress must strike the right balance between supporting innovation and keeping consumers safe, and I look forward to working with my colleagues on the committee in a bipartisan manner to introduce legislation to achieve these goals.” To watch Dingell’s opening statement, please click here. Dingell, co-chair of the House Smart Transportation Caucus, has worked with a coalition of federal, state and local leaders, industry and academia on the American Center for Mobility at Willow Run in Michigan, which will focus on testing, verification, and self-certification of automated vehicles and was just designated as an Automated Vehicle Proving Ground by the U.S. Department of Transportation. “I’m proud of the American Center for Mobility and the work my home state is doing to lead the way in this area,” said Dingell. “Michigan is dedicating considerable resources to automated vehicles, and I’m committed to helping it and the United States remain leaders in this vital field.” Witnesses at today’s hearing included Nidhi Kalra, Ph.D., senior information scientist at the RAND Corporation and a co-director of RAND’s Center for Decision Making Under Uncertainty; Mike Abelson, vice president of global strategy at General Motors; Joseph Okpaku, vice president of public policy at Lyft; Gill Pratt, Ph.D., CEO of the Toyota Research Institute; and Anders Karrberg, vice president of government affairs at Volvo Car Group.
02.12.2017	DEARBORN, MI - In advance of Valentine’s Day, U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and friends delivered handmade valentines from local students to veterans at the Detroit and Ann Arbor VA hospitals over the weekend. Students from kindergarten to middle school from across the 12th Congressional District participated in the Valentines for Veterans program this year, creating hundreds of cards to show veterans how much they are loved. “It’s so important that we show the men and women who served our country how much we appreciate them,” said Dingell. “The creative and heartfelt cards made by students throughout the region lit up the faces of our veterans and helped remind them that we will never forget their service and sacrifice.” This is the third year in a row Dingell has organized the Valentines for Veterans program. After the project received such an overwhelming response from veterans, schools and the community in 2015, Dingell launched the year-round “Sending Smiles to Vets” program, which engages young people on an ongoing basis to create cards and artwork for veterans. The program celebrates various seasons and holidays, including Independence Day, Veterans Day and Thanksgiving.
02.10.2017	DEARBORN, MI - U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement on the passing of Detroit entrepreneur and Red Wings and Tigers owner Mike Ilitch. "Mike Ilitch was a giant for Detroit and Southeast Michigan who spent his life nurturing and giving back to the city and state he loved. His drive and vision - and passion for sports - helped contribute to the revival of downtown Detroit, helped make us the pizza capital of the world, and brought us four Stanley Cups and two trips to the World Series. Through it all, Mike never lost touch. He was a real guy, and as much as he loved Detroit, his true love was his wife Marian and their seven children. John and I were honored to call Mike a friend, and our prayers are with Marian and the family."
02.10.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today announced that the Downriver Community Conference (DCC) will receive a $100,000 grant from the Economic Development Administration (EDA) to help develop an economic recovery strategy for Downriver communities. “The Downrivers are a strong and vibrant region, but like so many communities in the Midwest, we were hard hit by the economic downturn,” said Dingell. “This grant will bring together the region’s public and private partners to develop a roadmap for economic recovery, redevelopment and workforce training that will continue to drive our economy forward.” The EDA grant will fund a strategy for economic development for the communities of Trenton, Ecorse, Wyandotte and River Rouge, whose economies have been impacted by declining manufacturing and power plant closures. The project will bring together the region’s public and private sectors in the creation of a strategy that will promote job creation, support economic diversification and foster resiliency.
02.09.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today released the following statement after the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals unanimously declined to lift the halt on President Trump's Executive Order banning Muslims and refugees from entering the United States. "Today's unanimous ruling on President Trump's Executive Order reaffirms that this ban runs counter to our Constitution and our values as Americans. National Security experts, business leaders and academia have warned that this ban endangers both our national security and our economy. While this ruling is a victory, uncertainty remains, and we will continue to fight to protect our Constitution with every ounce of our strength."
02.09.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – In advance of President Trump’s meeting with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe at the White House on Friday, U.S. Representatives Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and Mark Pocan (WI-02) sent a letter urging the President to address the serious trade impediments facing American manufacturers in the Japanese market. Dingell and Pocan wrote that any discussion of new trade policy with Japan must raise concerns about the trade imbalance between our two nations, currency manipulation and market barriers, which have disadvantaged American workers and manufacturers for decades. “While Japan is a very important ally to the United States, these unfair trade practices have had enormous, devastating impacts to the American manufacturing sector,” they wrote. “American workers deserve to have fair access for their products in the global market. It is imperative that the unfair issues listed above are included in any discussion on trade with the Japanese government and we urge you to raise these issues in your discussion with Prime Minister Abe.” Last year the U.S. trade deficit with Japan was $69 billion, America’s second largest trade deficit. Due to market restrictions, American car manufacturers only sold 19,000 cars in Japan in 2015. During the same time, Japanese manufacturers sold 1.6 million cars in the United States. Dingell and Pocan have been leading the effort to grow U.S. manufacturing and level the playing field for American workers. In December, they led a coalition of Members from manufacturing states in outlining actions to expand economic opportunities in manufacturing communities harmed by the outsourcing of American jobs. The Representatives’ full letter to President Trump can be read here and below. February 9, 2017 President Donald J. Trump The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Ave, NW Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President: As you prepare to welcome Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe to the White House, we urge you to use this opportunity to highlight the impediments facing American exports in the Japanese market. The story of Japanese market protectionism is nothing new and has been occurring for decades. Any discussion of new trade policy with Japan must raise the following concerns: • Consideration of a bi-lateral agreement should not come at the expense of U.S. workers and manufacturers. Last year our trade deficit with Japan was $69 billion - America’s second largest trade deficit. Due to market restrictions, American car manufacturers only sold 19,000 cars in Japan in 2015. During the same time, Japanese manufacturers sold 1.6 million cars in the United States. This trade imbalance must be addressed with Prime Minister Abe. • Japan has directly intervened 376 times in the currency market since the 1980s. Currency manipulation by Japan has resulted in large trade deficits which have displaced hundreds of thousands of U.S. jobs. The U.S. should not enter into any trade agreement with Japan without robust, enforceable provisions to prevent currency manipulation. • Market barriers in Japan must be eliminated in order to fully achieve equal market access for American manufacturers. Japan has used technical automotive regulations as a means to protect local markets by creating excessively difficult and costly regulatory certification requirements. While Japan is a very important ally to the United States, these unfair trade practices have had enormous, devastating impacts to the American manufacturing sector. American workers deserve to have fair access for their products in the global market. It is imperative that the unfair issues listed above are included in any discussion on trade with the Japanese government and we urge you to raise these issues in your discussion with Prime Minister Abe. Sincerely, Debbie Dingell Mark Pocan Member of Congress Member of Congress
02.08.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) was named Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus Seniors Task Force by Co-Chairs Reps. Doris Matsui (CA-06) and Jan Schakowsky (IL-09). As Vice Chair, Dingell will join the Co-Chairs in a mission of improving and protecting the financial security, quality of life, and health and well-being of America’s seniors. In addition to Dingell, Reps. Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA-40), Joyce Beatty (OH-03), Michelle Lujan Grisham (NM-01), and Charlie Crist (FL-13) will serve as Vice Chairs for the 115th Congress. “It is an honor to join Reps. Schakowsky and Matsui and my colleagues as a Vice Chair of the Seniors Task Force” said Rep. Dingell. “Ensuring our seniors can maintain a high quality of life for the longest time possible and live with dignity, security and independence should be among the top priorities of the Congress. I look forward to working with my colleagues to ensure these goals remain at the forefront of public discourse, and will fight every day to protect the promise of Medicare, Social Security and affordable quality health care our seniors deserve.” “We are pleased to announce five outstanding new Vice Chairs who are committed to bringing the energy and resolve we need to defend against Republican attacks on seniors’ financial security and quality of life,” said Co-Chairs Matsui and Schakowsky. “Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security are lifelines for older Americans and their families. The Seniors Task Force stands ready to fight against attempts to take away these essential programs. Together, we will work to protect the ability of seniors to live with dignity in their communities.” The mission of the Congressional Task Force on Seniors is to promote and raise the public’s awareness of policies in Congress that would impact the health and well-being of America’s seniors. The Task Force accomplishes this mission by focusing on principles that are critically important to aging Americans: • Financial Security • Affordable, Reliable Health Care • Quality of Life as People Age • Access to long-term care services that allow seniors to age with dignity One of Dingell’s top priorities is bringing the country’s long-term care system into the 21st century. The first bill she introduced, the Medicare Hearing Aid Coverage Act, addresses one piece of the puzzle by allowing Medicare to cover hearing aids for beneficiaries.
02.03.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today released the following statement after Michigan U.S. District Judge Victoria Roberts issued an injunction against President Trump’s Executive Order banning Muslims and refugees from entering the U.S. “Today’s action by the federal court in Michigan is further evidence that President Trump’s Executive Order runs contrary to the Constitution of the United States. Within 24 hours of the initial Order, judges across the country issued injunctions to prevent further harm to lawful permanent residents and other visa holders entering the U.S., but people remain scared and confused. “We have a moral responsibility to protect the constitutional pillars of our democracy, including freedom of religion and freedom of speech. The growing list of injunctions nationwide demonstrates that this ban is unconstitutional, harmful to our values as Americans and those who have trusted the laws of this country to seek safe haven on our shores.”
02.02.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today sent a letter to Howard Mac McMillan, executive director of the Pipeline Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA), asking that Spectra Energy’s request for a special permit to waive odorization requirements for the NEXUS pipeline be denied at this time. Odorizing natural gas makes it easier for citizens living in the vicinity of the pipeline to detect any leaks. Dingell voiced concerns about the safety of residents in communities surrounding the pipeline, which would pass through the eastern part of Washtenaw County, and the fact that residents and municipalities did not receive notification of the public comment period or ample time to submit input. “This letter is to request that this special permit be denied at this time to ensure the odorization requirements remain in place and so local communities can have proper insight into the waiver decision,” wrote Dingell. “It is critical to ensure that the public has proper input into these decisions and that public safety is always protected.” DTE Energy will convene a community meeting this month so that all stakeholders can voice their opinions. “The impacted communities have many questions, are greatly concerned about the potential danger to them, and were not given appropriate time to submit public comments” Dingell wrote. “For the many reasons listed above, I respectfully request that PHMSA deny this special permit to waive the odorization requirements for the NEXUS pipeline until all local concerns are satisfied.” The requirement of natural gas odorziation dates back to an incident at a school in New London, Texas in 1937 which killed more than 295 people. During an investigation into the incident, it was discovered that a faulty natural gas line had leaked gas into the school and the leak was not noticed because the gas was odorless. If a natural gas leak had been detected early through its odor, a catastrophe could have been prevented. As a result of this tragedy, Congress mandated the odorization of natural gas pipelines in highly populated areas. The full letter is here and below. February 2, 2017 The Honorable Howard Mac McMillan Executive Director Pipeline Hazardous Materials Safety Administration US Department of Transportation 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE Washington, DC 20590 Dear Executive Director McMillan: This letter is in reference to the NEXUS Pipeline, which if completed will traverse the eastern part of Washtenaw County in Michigan’s 12th Congressional district. The project is led by Spectra Energy, which has applied for a special permit to waive the odorization requirements specified in 49 CFR 192.625 [PHSMA-2016-0009]. While Spectra argues that odorizing gas in the pipeline will be cost prohibitive and technologically difficult, it is critical to ensure that the public has proper input into these decisions and that public safety is always protected. This letter is to request that this special permit be denied at this time to ensure the odorization requirements remain in place and so local communities can have proper insight into the waiver decision. The requirement of natural gas odorziation dates back to an incident at a school in New London, Texas in 1937 which killed more than 295 people. During an investigation into the incident, it was discovered that a faulty natural gas line had leaked gas into the school and the leak was not noticed because the gas was odorless. If a natural gas leak had been detected early through its odor, a catastrophe could have been prevented. This is exactly why Congress mandated the odorization of natural gas pipelines in Class 3 locations, which are highly populated areas, and the requirement should not be waived lightly. In their application, Spectra argues that the odorization requirements are not necessary because the company will undertake additional activities to make the pipeline safer and more secure. However, some of the examples the company cites are already mandated by current law. For example, Spectra offers to build the line to be “piggable,” but pipeline operators are already required to build their pipelines so a smart-pig can be run through them. Odorization is required in addition to what is being proposed by Spectra in order to keep the public safe. It is also important to ensure government is abiding by principles of environmental justice to ensure all communities have a voice in decisions that impact them. The NEXUS pipeline would run through several low-income census tracts in multiple communities, including running along an intersection that would pass within 400-1000 feet of three elementary schools. Not only would removing the odorization requirements endanger the health, safety and welfare of local residents, it would also be in conflict with the U.S. Department of Transportation’s (DOT) commitment to addressing environmental justice in low-income and minority populations as memorialized in DOT Departmental Order 5610.2(a). Finally, communities surrounding the proposed pipeline route were not given ample notification or time to submit their input on the waiver. The FERC comment period did not indicate that a permit to waive odorization requirements would be sought by Spectra Energy. Local municipalities did not receive notification from either Spectra Energy or PHMSA that this issue was open for public comment. The waiver only came to the attention of Ypsilanti Township when attorneys representing the pipeline sought easements on nine parcels of land owned by the Township. It is my understanding that the public comment period will be reopened following Spectra’s submission of additional environmental information to PHMSA last month (titled “Special Permit Petition Environmental Information”). I encourage you to make all stakeholders aware of this new opportunity for the public to comment on the impacts of this project. Ypsilanti Township is the most urbanized area along the proposed route of the NEXUS pipeline. The proposed Special Permit Segments could encompass another 21 miles of the pipeline due to final route adjustments or an increase in population. A total of 30 miles would then be in the waiver zone. In the event of a natural disaster, such as a tornado, the odor would also inform citizens of an impending emergency. Citizens who live in the vicinity of the pipeline need a mechanism to detect a gas leak. The odorization requirements for Class 3 zones are a critical public safeguard and are mandated for a reason. In February, it is my understanding that DTE Energy will be convening a community meeting so that all stakeholders can voice their opinions on the odorization waiver. The impacted communities have many questions, are greatly concerned about the potential danger to them, and were not given appropriate time to submit public comments. For the many reasons listed above, I respectfully request that PHMSA deny this special permit to waive the odorization requirements for the NEXUS pipeline until all local concerns are satisfied. Thank you for attention to this matter. Sincerely, Debbie Dingell Member of Congress
02.02.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today released the following statement following the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) decision to conduct a preliminary assessment of the Gelman dioxane plume in Ann Arbor to determine whether it qualifies for federal Superfund cleanup. “The community has been seeking better solutions for cleanup of this decades-old problem for years. I’m pleased the EPA will conduct a preliminary assessment of the dioxane plume to determine whether it is eligible for cleanup as a federal Superfund site. This will take time and it is not a silver bullet, but it is critical to explore all options available to the community to ensure this contamination is properly remediated and families and the environment are protected. It is important that all the stakeholders stay coordinated and work together to ensure this process moves forward as quickly and efficiently as possible.” Dingell has long pushed for stricter cleanup standards for the Gelman dioxane plume to protect public health and the environment. In October, she wrote a letter to former EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy questioning the adequacy of current efforts to remediate the plume. That letter can be read here.
02.01.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representatives Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and Barbara Comstock (VA-10), co-chairs of the bipartisan Congressional Cancer Prevention Caucus, today joined doctors, experts and advocates for the first caucus meeting of the 115th Congress. Panelists including Bill Couzens of Less Cancer and Lisa McGovern of the Prevent Cancer Foundation focused on the latest developments in the field of cancer prevention. “Every family has been touched by cancer,” said Dingell. “The goal of the Cancer Prevention Caucus is to provide hope to millions of Americans by focusing on ways we can stop cancer before it starts. I look forward to working with my friend Congresswoman Comstock and my colleagues to support innovative education and awareness efforts, and advance smart polices that will ultimately bring us closer to a world where cancer is considered a preventable disease.” “I am pleased to co-chair the Cancer Prevention Caucus with my colleague and friend Congresswoman Debbie Dingell so we can join forces in the fight for preventing cancer,” said Comstock. “Here in Congress we have the opportunity to shape policies that can advance better detection tools and improve cancer screening techniques that have the potential to save thousands of lives. We will build on recent successes such as the 21st Century Cures Act, which was signed into law last year and facilitates better investment in important medical research that is necessary for our researchers and scientists to find early detection, prevention and cures to deadly cancers. It is critical to advance new preventive technologies, but also improve existing medical practices so we can fight this battle on all fronts.” Other experts who joined the panel include Dr. Jann Balmer, director of the Continuing Medical Education at the University of Virginia School of Medicine; Linda Reinstein, co-founder of the Asbestos Disease Awareness Organization, and Tom Sherma, Maryland chairman of Less Cancer. The Congressional Cancer Prevention Caucus is a bipartisan forum to engage Members of Congress, their staff, the medical community, advocacy groups, academia and the public on lifestyle and environmental factors that can reduce cancer risk. It seeks to increase education and awareness and advance policy solutions that improve public health and help prevent cancer before it starts.
01.30.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today joined more than 160 House colleagues in introducing legislation to defund and rescind President Donald Trump’s Executive Order suspending the refugee program and banning individuals from several Muslim countries from entering the U.S. The Statue of Liberty Values (SOLVE) Act prevents any funds from being used to implement the Executive Order. “Providing for a strong national security includes protecting the fundamental pillars of our democracy: freedom of religion, freedom of speech, compassion and justice,” said Dingell. “This Executive Order runs contrary to our values as Americans, and I am proud to stand with my colleagues to say that we will not allow fear and hatred to divide us. We will stand together as Americans to protect the values and ideals that make this nation great.” The SOLVE Act was introduced following confusion and fear after the implementation of the President’s Executive Order on Friday banning refugees and individuals from seven majority Muslim countries. Over the weekend at airports across the country, individuals, including lawful permanent residents, were detained or denied entry to the United States. Text of the legislation can be read here.
01.28.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) is reminding individuals who need health insurance – or want to explore new plans for 2017 – that they can still sign up for coverage until the January 31st deadline. This comes after the Trump Administration halted all advertising and other outreach activities for the Affordable Care Act Marketplaces by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) in the critical last few days of Open Enrollment. “People should not be hurt by politics,” said Dingell. “This is an opportunity for individuals who need insurance to sign up, and canceling outreach in the final days of Open Enrollment will only result in fewer Americans gaining health care coverage who need it. I want to remind everyone that you can still visit Healthcare.gov between now and January 31st to sign up for a plan that’s right for you and your family.” Michigan residents can also call 1-800-318-2596 to learn about the options available or find free in-person help in their community by visiting LocalHelp.HealthCare.gov. “President Trump said himself that he wants to provide insurance for everybody,” continued Dingell. “If he believes this, then our goal should be to ensure more people have affordable health care coverage, not undermine the progress that’s been made over the last seven years.” This action by the Administration will actually waste, not save, taxpayer dollars because the government had already purchased the ads that were going to run. The last week of January is one of the two weeks of the enrollment season that has the largest surge of consumers signing up. In the three years since the Marketplaces began, the final day of enrollment has been the second-biggest day of enrollment. It is topped only by December 31st, the deadline for people seeking coverage effective January 1st. Also, the last week of January has always tended to draw younger enrollees, who often wait until the very last minute to sign up. For the last week of the sign-up period, HHS had planned a major advertising campaign specifically aimed at younger adults. It is this advertising campaign that is being halted. If there end up being fewer young adults in the Marketplaces, the risk pools in the Marketplaces would be less healthy – destabilizing the Marketplaces for the future. Before this action, enrollment in the 2017 Marketplaces had been going well. As of December 24th, more than 11.5 million people nationwide had signed up for 2017 Marketplace plans, higher than the same time last year.
01.27.2017	Washington, DC -Today, President Trump issued an executive order drastically altering our refugee and visa system. In response, Representatives John Conyers, Jr. (MI-14), Dan Kildee (MI-5), Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) issued the following joint statement: “By seeking to halt all refugee admissions in the short term, and slash the number of refugee admissions to a modern historic low, today’s order betrays our proud heritage as a Nation of immigrants and a place of refuge. And by banning all visas and admissions from exclusively Muslim-majority nations, this order constitutes a thinly veiled ban on entry based on religion, betraying America’s cardinal commitment to freedom of belief. “Throughout our history our Nation has granted safe haven to families fleeing persecution, violence, terror, sexual slavery, and torture. In doing so we have not only acted morally, but we have added to our own strength, vitality and diversity. Unfortunately, the order issued by Mr. Trump today represents an unprecedented break with our humanitarian tradition and role as a beacon of freedom. “As Members of Congress, we take a back seat to no one in our Nation’s efforts to combat the ongoing threat of terrorism. That is why our refugee system already extensively vets and confirms every individual seeking entry to our country, subjecting them to a series of security screenings and checking against multiple law enforcement data bases. But giving in to our worst fears -- as this order does -- will do nothing to make America safer or weaken our adversaries. This is why we stand united in our opposition to these efforts to divide us, and pledge to work together to reject intolerance, discrimination, and hate however and wherever we can – whether in our communities, in Congress, or in the Courts.” The executive order issued today by President Trump would, among other things: (i) halt for 90 days all visas and admissions of noncitizens from a number of Muslim-majority countries (Iraq, Syria, Iran, Sudan, Libya, Somalia, and Yemen); (ii) enact a 120 day ban on all refugees from entering the United States and shut down the Syrian refugee program indefinitely; (iii) reduce by more than half the ceiling for worldwide refugee admissions; (iv) impose a potential “Values Test” against immigrants seeking entry into the United States.
01.27.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today released the following statement after President Trump signed an executive order banning refugees from entering the United States and suspending visas for citizens of Iraq, Iran, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen. “President Trump’s executive order banning refugees from entering the United States is deeply disturbing. While we all agree we need to provide for a strong national security, this approach is wrong, ineffective and jeopardizes the fundamental pillars of our constitution and the values that make this nation great: freedom of religion, compassion and justice. If you come to my hometown of Dearborn, you will see that Arab Americans and refugees are part of the fabric of our community – they are our doctors, teachers, small business owners and servicemembers, and they are among the most loyal and patriotic Americans I know. To single out this population for discrimination is wrong and reminiscent of one of the darkest periods in our nation’s history – when thousands of Japanese-Americans were targeted and imprisoned in internment camps during World War II. “You can’t ‘make America great’ by eroding the very values that made it that way in the first place. Terror can be wrought by any race or religion and by forces both outside and inside our borders. Instead of creating division and reinforcing hatred, we need to focus on how we can all join together to keep our nation safe and secure.”
01.24.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – The Michigan Department of Environmental Quality (MDEQ) responded to U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell’s January 17th letter seeking answers about the water quality in many Downriver communities. Last week, Dingell’s office received reports of both people and their pets becoming ill after drinking water with discoloration, taste and odor issues. MDEQ Director C. Heidi Grether wrote that the Great Lakes Water Authority (GLWA) continues to conduct expanded testing to ensure the water is safe, and provided water testing results and health guidance for affected residents. The full letter can be read here. “We will continue to monitor this issue closely to ensure residents can have confidence that the water they drink is safe,” said Dingell. “It is my hope that this letter will help provide answers and peace of mind to members of the community who are rightfully concerned. I encourage any resident who became ill as a result of the water to contact the appropriate agencies to ensure your health is provided for and that these cases are properly tracked and monitored.” According to MDEQ, residents should report any illness as a result of the water to their local health department and the Detroit Health Department or Wayne County Department of Health, Veterans and Community Wellness. Detroit Health Department City of Detroit 3245 East Jefferson Avenue, Suite 100 Detroit, Michigan 48207 Telephone: 313-876-4000 Wayne County Disease Control and Surveillance 33030 Van Born Wayne, Michigan 48184 Telephone: 734-727-7078 MDEQ’s letter can be read here and below. The Honorable Debbie Dingell United States House of Representatives Washington, DC 20515 Dear Congresswoman Dingell: SUBJECT: Quality of Water Provided by Great Lakes Water Authority to Downriver Communities Thank you for your January 17, 2017, letter jointly addressed to Governor Rick Snyder and Ms. Sue McCormick, Chief Executive Officer, Great Lakes Water Authority (GLWA), regarding the taste and odor issues in the Downriver communities. Please find below the responses to the questions raised in your letter. 1. Is the tap water in Downriver communities currently safe? Water produced by the GLWA throughout the taste and odor event meet all federal Safe Drinking Water Act and Michigan Safe Drinking Water Act, 1976 PA 399, as amended (SOWA), regulatory standards. The Michigan Department of Environmental Quality (MDEQ) continues to work with the GLWA to ensure water continues to meet all SOWA standards. In addition, the GLWA has been conducting expanded (nonregulatory) testing to further ensure the water is safe. All test results received have met the SOWA standards. 2. To the best of your knowledge, what is the source of the discoloration and odor issues that are currently present in the water? The routine cleaning of sedimentation basins at the Southwest Water Treatment Plant resulted in some particulates and the odorous compounds (often associated with the material that has been removed from the water during treatment) to recirculate to the beginning of the treatment process and be fully re-treated through the plant. 3. What strategy is the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality (MDEQ) and the Great Lakes Water Authority (GLWA) pursuing to address the discoloration and odor issues? How long are these conditions expected to persist? The conditions appear to have ended on January 18, 2017, but the GLWA continues to conduct additional sampling as well as customer outreach to respond to any remaining concerns. 4. It is my understanding the Great Lakes Water Authority has increased sampling and testing of the water in Downriver communities following these reports. How long will this increased testing occur? Have there been any positive tests for bacteria or volatile organic chemicals? How often is water normally tested in the absence of an emergency or adverse reports from the community? Enclosed are sample results submitted to the MDEQ that identify the scope and range of the monitoring that has been performed. Water testing frequencies vary depending upon the nature, location, and regulatory requirements or operational needs. Some testing at the treatment plant may be continuous (turbidity, chlorine residuals, etc.) or hourly, some may be conducted every shift or once a day; sampling in the distribution system is often conducted daily but from different sites on a rotating basis; some parameters less frequently but at least as often as required by state or federal regulations. 5. Increased transparency will help promote public confidence that everything possible is being done to address the situation. Publicly releasing test results as they come in, regardless of whether they contain evidence of contamination or not, would bring peace of mind to many residents. Will results from testing the water be released to the public? Yes. Again, enclosed are summaries of the data provided to the MDEQ from the expanded testing conducted in the customer communities. 6. Our office has received many reports of both people and their pets becoming ill after drinking the discolored water. What should residents who have become sick from ingesting the water be doing to ensure their health is provided for? Where should they go to report these cases? How can we all work together with the appropriate public health authorities to ensure these cases are being properly tracked? There are disease surveillance and reporting requirements established for medical professionals through a system established by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and administered by the state and local health departments. The Michigan Department of Health and Human Services (MDHHS) and the Wayne County Department of Health, Veterans and Community Wellness administer the disease reporting network. Residents should report any illnesses as a result of the water to the Detroit Health Department or Wayne County Department of Health, Veterans and Community Wellness. Detroit Health Department City of Detroit 3245 East Jefferson Avenue, Suite 100 Detroit, Michigan 48207 Telephone: 313-876-4000 Wayne County Disease Control and Surveillance 33030 Van Born Wayne, Michigan 48184 Telephone: 734-727-7078 The MDHHS and city of Detroit are working together to ensure that any reports are followed up on at both the state and local level, including the reports that your office forwarded to Governor Snyder's office. Outside of the names your office provided, the MDHHS and Detroit Health Department have received no other complaints or reports of illnesses associated with the water. Please encourage any of your constituents who may be suffering from an illness that they believe is connected to water quality to contact their local health department right away so that the county and state can follow up with them. 7. Many residents are wondering if they need to be drinking bottled water because of the current situation. GLWA has indicated that this is not necessary at the moment, but many of my constituents are receiving mixed messages on this issue. Please provide specific information as to why bottled water is or is not needed at this time to help clarify the situation. We are unaware of any indication of contamination that would warrant the use of bottled water. A review of the spreadsheets providing the results of widespread monitoring conducted by the GLWA in response to this event reveals they did not have any unacceptable results for total coliform, E. coli, chlorine residuals, volatile organic chemicals, etc. Furthermore, the chlorine levels measured throughout the distribution systems in the communities where these complaints originated reveal no significant decrease from what is normally present. If a significant source of contamination had entered the piping network, a drop in the level of disinfectant would be expected. It is this very trait of providing preventative, public health protection that is the basis for public water systems to maintain a measureable amount of chlorine throughout their underground piping system. Although it is often difficult to be sure the testing that has been conducted is sufficient to identify all possible contaminants, we are satisfied that the rapid identification of the source of these complaints, along with the measures employed by the GLWA to mitigate the consequences of this incident (isolation of the basin, treatment with powdered activated carbon, etc.), provides a high degree of confidence that the monitoring was appropriate to identify any affiliated public health threat. 8. Whose responsibility is it to notify the public in the instance that the water in a local community is found to be unsafe to drink? Is there a formal plan in place to work with impacted communities and their elected officials if there is a contamination of the water that could cause health issues? Public water systems in Michigan are responsible for the proper operation and monitoring of their drinking water to demonstrate compliance with state and federal standards, as well as satisfying customer expectations for water quality that may surpass drinking water standards. They are obligated to conduct routine monitoring and periodic maintenance; to provide operational oversight under the supervision of properly certified, licensed water operators; and to report the results of these activities to the MDEQ for compliance assurance. When the drinking water is found to be unsafe to drink, the requirement to notify customers and the general public is specified in rule, often with specific timetables established and mandatory health effects language that must be included. The time frames and methods for distributing this information is based on whether the health threat is considered acute (notification within 24 to 48 hours through multimedia sources) or chronic (notification within 30 days [or more in some cases] through direct written communication with each customer). The MDEQ provides templates that may be used by the community to accomplish these mandatory public notices. Part 23, Emergency Response Plans, of the administrative rules promulgated pursuant to the Michigan Safe Drinking Water Act, establishes the requirement for all community public water systems to prepare an Emergency Response Plan (ERP). This ERP must outline a program for the rapid correction of emergencies and shall include actions, procedures, and an identification of equipment that can lessen the impact of an emergency on the public health and safety and supply of drinking water systems. Some of the requirements for an ERP are identification of procedures to be implemented, such as emergency treatment measures in the event of contamination, and water sampling and monitoring plans to identify potential public health threats. The ERP must also provide internal and external communication procedures, including appropriate means for notification of customers affected by an emergency, a description of the precautions or measures to be taken to protect the public health of those customers, and a list of critical customers for whom a continuous supply of safe drinking water is most urgent. Communities are required to periodically update their ERP and have it approved by the MDEQ to ensure it addresses the required elements. Thank you for your interest in assuring safe drinking water for the residents of Southeast Michigan. If you have questions, please contact Mr. Bryce Feighner, Division Director, Drinking Water and Municipal Assistance Division, at 517-284-6544; feighnerb@michigan.gov; or MDEQ, P.O. Box 30241, Lansing, Michigan 48909-7741; or you may contact me. Sincerely, C. Heidi Grether Director 517-284-6700 Enclosure cc/enc: Governor Rick Snyder Senator Ian Conyers Senator Hoon-Yung Hopgood Senator Coleman Young II Representative Darrin Camilleri Representative Cara Clemente Representative Erika Geiss Representative Frank Liberati Mayor Jonathan Dropiewski, City of Flat Rock Mayor James Garris, City of Gibraltar Mayor Thomas Karnes, City of Lincoln Park Mayor Joseph Kuspa, City of Southgate Mayor William Matakas, City of Allen Park Mayor Pat Odette, City of Woodhaven Mayor Joseph Pederson, City of Wyandotte Mayor Rick Sollars, City of Taylor Mayor Kyle Stack, City of Trenton Mayor Andrew Swift, City of Riverview Mr. Andy Linko, Supervisor, Brownstown Township Mr. Brian Loftus, Supervisor, Grosse Ile Township Mr. Robert Kaplan, Acting Regional Administrator, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Region 5 Ms. Sue McCormick, Chief Executive Officer, GLWA Dr. Mouhanad Hammami, Director, Wayne County Department of Health, Veterans and Community Wellness Mr. Jim Perry, Executive Director, Downriver Community Conference Eden Wells, M.D., MPH, FACPM, Chief Medical Executive, MDHHS Mr. Bill McBride, Governor's Washington Office Ms. Maggie Pallone, External Relations Deputy Director, MDEQ Mr. Robert Wagner, Environment Deputy Director, MDEQ Mr. Michael Shore, Director of Media Relations, MDEQ Mr. Bryce Feighner, MDEQ Mr. Richard Benzie, MDEQ
01.24.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (D-MI), Congressman Dan Kildee (D-MI), Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ) and Congressman Paul Tonko (D-NY) issued the following statement today in response to the Trump Administration’s directive to temporarily freeze all grant funding issued by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA): "President Trump’s directive to freeze EPA grant funding is very concerning. Just last month, Democrats and Republicans in Congress came together in a bipartisan fashion to pass long overdue aid for the people of Flint, Michigan. Flint families have waited long enough for help and President Trump's EPA directives should not jeopardize or delay real aid from reaching Flint or any other community in need."
01.23.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – As Valentine’s Day approaches, U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) is inviting local students to participate in the “Valentines for Veterans” project by making handmade valentine cards for local veterans. Last year, students across the region created hundreds of cards to show veterans how much they are loved and appreciated. This is the third year in a row that Dingell has organized the “Valentines for Veterans” project. “A gesture as small as a handmade card can mean so much to the men and women who served our country,” said Dingell. “For Valentine’s Day, I invite all students to join us in showing our veterans how much we appreciate their service and sacrifices.” The cards will be delivered in the days before Valentine’s Day by Congresswoman Dingell and friends to both the John D. Dingell VA Medical Center and the Ann Arbor VA. Those who wish to participate may drop off artwork at Dingell’s Michigan offices anytime between now and Thursday, February 9th, or call the Dearborn office at 313-278-2936 to arrange for pickup. Dearborn Office 19855 West Outer Drive Suite 103-E Dearborn, MI 48124 Ypsilanti Office 301 West Michigan Avenue Suite 400 Ypsilanti, MI 48197 After “Valentines for Veterans” received such an overwhelming response from veterans, schools and the community in 2015, Dingell launched the year-round “Sending Smiles to Vets” program, which engages young people on an ongoing basis to create cards and artwork for veterans. The program celebrates various seasons and holidays, including Independence Day, Veterans Day and Thanksgiving.
01.23.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today released the following statement after President Trump signed an executive order formally withdrawing the U.S. from the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP). “Members of Congress and a coalition of working men and women across this country worked together for years to defeat the Trans-Pacific Partnership because it failed to meet critical standards for creating jobs and leveling the playing field for American workers. Thanks to strong opposition from labor, health and environmental groups, Democrats, Republicans and many others, this harmful trade agreement never became law. “We welcome the Administration’s support on this issue, but recognize it is only a first step. It is our hope that the Administration will deliver on the promise to renegotiate NAFTA and work with us to create a new approach to trade in this country that will create jobs, grow wages, and put American workers first. This should be done in a bipartisan manner, and we are ready to get to work.”
01.17.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today sent a letter to Governor Rick Snyder and Great Lakes Water Authority (GLWA) CEO Sue F. McCormick regarding recent reports of odor, taste and discoloration issues in the tap water in many Downriver communities. Over the weekend, Dingell’s office received reports of both people and their pets becoming ill after drinking the discolored water. Dingell is seeking information about the source of the discoloration and steps that are being taken to ensure the water is safe. “People are rightfully questioning whether the water is safe to drink, cook with, and bathe in,” wrote Dingell. “All Americans deserve peace of mind in knowing their water is safe for consumption. The current situation has given pause to many Downriver families who are worried for their well-being. Answers to the following questions will help address concerns on the mind of many in the community and will help ensure we are all working together to fix this problem.” The letter can be read here and below. January 17, 2017 The Honorable Rick Snyder Governor State of Michigan P.O Box 30013 Lansing, MI 48909 Ms. Sue F. McCormick CEO Great Lakes Water Authority 735 Randolph, Suite 1900 Detroit, MI 48226 Dear Governor Snyder and Ms. McCormick: This letter is in regards to numerous reports of odor, taste and discoloration issues in the tap water in many Downriver communities. We have received reports of a sulfur-like odor coming from the water and confirmed these reports when I visited impacted communities and could smell the reported odor. People are rightfully questioning whether the water is safe to drink, cook with, and bathe in. We have also heard reports from constituents and their pets that have become severely ill after drinking tap water from the faucet. All Americans deserve peace of mind in knowing their water is safe for consumption. The current situation has given pause to many Downriver families who are worried for their well-being. Answers to the following questions will help address concerns on the mind of many in the community and will help ensure we are all working together to fix this problem. 1. Is the tap water in Downriver communities currently safe? 2. To the best of your knowledge, what is the source of the discoloration and odor issues that are currently present in the water? 3. What strategy is the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality (MDEQ) and the Great Lakes Water Authority (GLWA) pursuing to address the discoloration and odor issues? How long are these conditions expected to persist? 4. It is my understanding the Great Lakes Water Authority has increased sampling and testing of the water in Downriver communities following these reports. How long will this increased testing occur? Have there been any positive tests for bacteria or volatile organic chemicals? How often is water normally tested in the absence of an emergency or adverse reports from the community? 5. Increased transparency will help promote public confidence that everything possible is being done to address the situation. Publicly releasing test results as they come in, regardless of whether they contain evidence of contamination or not, would bring peace of mind to many residents. Will results from testing the water be released to the public? 6. Our office has received many reports of both people and their pets becoming ill after drinking the discolored water. What should residents who have become sick from ingesting the water be doing to ensure their health is provided for? Where should they go to report these cases? How can we all work together with the appropriate public health authorities to ensure these cases are being properly tracked? 7. Many residents are wondering if they need to be drinking bottled water because of the current situation. GLWA has indicated that this is not necessary at the moment, but many of my constituents are receiving mixed messages on this issue. Please provide specific information as to why bottled water is or is not needed at this time to help clarify the situation. 8. Whose responsibility is it to notify the public in the instance that the water in a local community is found to be unsafe to drink? Is there a formal plan in place to work with impacted communities and their elected officials if there is a contamination of the water that could cause health issues? Thank you for your prompt attention to these questions which are on the mind of many Downriver residents. We stand ready to work with you and please advise if you need any assistance or resources from the federal government. We are copying the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency on this email to ensure that government at all levels is partnering to ensure the safety and health of Downriver residents is provided for. We look forward to receiving your response on this critical issue. Sincerely, Debbie Dingell Member of Congress CC: The Honorable Gina McCarthy, Administrator, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency The Honorable Jonathan Dropiewski, Mayor, City of Flat Rock The Honorable James Gorris, Mayor, City of Gibraltar The Honorable Thomas Karnes, Mayor, City of Lincoln Park The Honorable Joseph Kuspa, Mayor, City of Southgate The Honorable Andy Linko, Supervisor, Brownstown Township The Honorable Brian Loftus, Supervisor, Grosse Ile Township The Honorable William Matakas, Mayor, City of Allen Park The Honorable Pat Odette, Mayor, City of Woodhaven The Honorable Joseph Pederson, Mayor, City of Wyandotte The Honorable Rick Sollars, Mayor, City of Taylor The Honorable Kyle Stack, Mayor, City of Trenton The Honorable Andrew Swift, Mayor, City of Riverview The Honorable Coleman Young III, State Senator, District 1 The Honorable Ian Conyers, State Senator, District 4 The Honorable Hoon-Young Hopgood, State Senator, District 6 The Honorable Erika Geiss, State Representative, District 12 The Honorable Frank Liberati, State Representative, District 13 The Honorable Cara Clemente, State Representative, District 14 The Honorable Darrin Camilleri, State Representative, District 23 The Honorable C. Heidi Grether, Director, Michigan Department of Environmental Quality Dr. Mouhanad Hammami, Director, Wayne County Department of Health, Veterans and Community Wellness Mr. Jim Perry, Executive Director, Downriver Community Conference Mr. Bill McBride, Director, State of Michigan Washington, DC Office
01.12.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representatives Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and Tim Walberg (MI-07) today reintroduced the VA Transparency Enhancement Act, which would require VA hospitals to improve reporting of infection rates, surgical cancellations, and other issues impacting quality of care. Public and private hospitals are required to report a variety of quality measures to the National Healthcare Safety Network, including surgical infections. The VA Transparency Enhancement Act will bring VA reporting requirements more in line with other hospitals, and require them to report on surgical cancellations and the impact on patients for the first time. “Veterans deserve to have faith in the care they receive at our nation’s VA medical centers,” said Dingell. “This is standard operating procedure for nearly every other hospital in the country, and the VA shouldn’t be exempt. Improving transparency means that veterans can make informed decisions about the centers where they are seeking treatment, and ensure that hospitals are meeting the quality standards we owe our veterans. Ensuring the men and women who serve our country have timely, quality healthcare is a critical responsibility of the Congress, and this is one more important step to ensuring we address barriers to care.” “To keep our promises to America’s veterans, we need to increase transparency at VA hospitals so patients and the public know when quality of care standards are not being met,” said Walberg. “The sooner we know about problem areas, the sooner we can work together to solve them. Our veterans must come first, and this bipartisan bill will help ensure our nation’s heroes receive the highest quality care in a timely fashion.” The VA Transparency Enhancement Act would require the Department of Veterans Affairs to report quarterly to Congress on the number of patients who contracted an infection as a result of a surgery and the number of surgeries cancelled or transferred by the VA. While the VA currently provides completed and pending appointment data from local VA medical facilities to the public monthly, the VA does not publically release data on rates of infection or cancelled or transferred surgeries. Dingell and Walberg first introduced the legislation in 2016 after an ongoing contamination issue at the VA Ann Arbor Healthcare System led to surgeries for veterans being intermittently canceled or moved to different hospitals. In meeting with VA leadership on the issue, the Representatives learned that VA hospitals are not required to report on surgical infection and cancellation rates, and that other reporting requirements can be improved as well. The need for increased transparency was underscored again in late 2016, when press reports revealed that the Detroit VA Medical Center had become a one-star facility based on an internal quality-of-care rating system used by the VA. Dingell and Walberg sent a letter to VA Secretary Robert McDonald seeking answers about steps being taken to improve performance and quality of care and questioning why the information was not available to the public. The VA has since posted the ratings on its website, allowing the public to see for the first time how their local VA hospitals have performed over time.
01.12.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Representatives Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and Dave Trott (MI-11) introduced the Preserve Our Lakes and Keep our Environment Safe (LAKES) Act, which would require the Administrator of the Pipeline and Hazardous Material Safety Administration (PHMSA) to terminate the operation of Enbridge’s Line 5 should a 12-month comprehensive study required by the legislation find the pipeline poses a significant risk. “If ruptured, the Line 5 Pipeline under the Straits of Mackinac poses a serious threat to the entire Great Lakes region, our environment and our economy,” said Rep. Dingell. “A University of Michigan study found last year that more than 700 miles of shoreline in Lake Michigan and Lake Huron are potentially vulnerable to an oil spill in the Straits, jeopardizing the Great Lakes ecosystem and hundreds of thousands of jobs. This legislation would allow the Department of Transportation to thoroughly study the condition and integrity of the underwater pipes and facilities in the Straits of Mackinac. If PHMSA finds the conditions of the pipes to be a significant risk to the environment and public health, the operations of Line 5 will be shut down.” “Accounting for one-fifth of the world’s fresh surface water, the Great Lakes are one of the most critical ecosystems in the entire world. Supporting over $20 billion in recreation and commercial industries a year they are also a backbone of not only Michigan’s economy, but the entire country,” said Rep. Trott. “However, more than 23 million gallons of contaminants are transported under the Straits of Mackinac every day, and while I understand that we need this energy, pumping millions of gallons through poorly inspected pipelines is careless and irresponsible. We can no longer bury our heads in the sand. We need a comprehensive study and regular inspections that ensure we are doing everything we can to transport this energy in a way that does not threaten our Great Lakes, and if Enbridge Line 5 is found to be inconsistent with this mission – shut it down.” Last year, the University of Michigan Water Center released a study which estimated that over 700 miles of Great Lakes shoreline could be impacted in a rupture of Enbridge Line 5. A PDF of the full bill text is available here. The Preserve Our Lakes and Keep our Environment Safe (LAKES) Act: • Commissions a comprehensive 12-month study to determine the economic and environmental risks pipelines under the Straits of Mackinac pose to the Great Lakes • Commissions a supplementary evaluation of the internal and external condition and structural integrity of such pipelines • Requires that the Administrator of the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA) terminate operations of such pipeline should the study determine its operation poses significant risk to life, property, or the environment
01.10.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today joined Vice President Joe Biden for a tour of the 2017 North American International Auto Show in Detroit. “It was an honor to be able to tour the auto show with Vice President Biden today, and thank him personally for the work that he and President Obama did to save this industry I love,” said Dingell. “What the Vice President saw on the floor today is a direct result of their leadership and the hard work and determination of the American auto worker. Today U.S. automakers are selling record numbers of new cars and trucks and leading the world in developments in research, innovation and technology. I was even prouder to show the Vice President some of the cutting-edge product made in Michigan’s Mighty 12th. “Today, the Vice President said that he believed in the American auto industry, and the reason it came back was the working men and women who are the best in the world. I agree, and I will continue working to support the men and women who keep this industry going and build on the progress made to ensure the American auto industry remains the best in the world.”
01.07.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – As the nation debates changes to the health care system, U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today joined Michigan families, health care providers and labor leaders at Western Wayne Family Health Centers to discuss how the Affordable Care Act (ACA) impacts Michigan. Since the ACA was enacted in 2010, the uninsured rate in Michigan has fallen by more than 50 percent, with 695,000 residents gaining coverage. House Republican Leadership has indicated that Congress may make major changes to the healthcare system this year, including repealing or weakening the law, which could reverse gains in access to coverage and care. “The Affordable Care Act is not perfect but it has provided a significant benefit to working families across Michigan,” said Dingell. “Since the ACA was implemented, 695,000 hardworking people in Michigan have gained health coverage and thousands more have benefited from the law, no matter where they get their coverage. Thanks to the ACA, preventative services like flu shots, cancer screenings and mammograms are now covered free of charge. People are no longer denied coverage because of a pre-existing condition, there are no more caps on lifetime benefits, and young people can stay on their parents’ plan until age 26. Hearing stories from today’s participants has reinforced for me that we cannot afford to go backwards. I will fight tooth and nail to protect the health care coverage that 695,000 people in Michigan and 20 million Americans rely upon.” “Since the ACA, we have been able to see new patients who, without insurance coverage, were afraid to come to see a doctor because they knew that if there was something wrong, they couldn’t afford to do anything about it,” said Linda Atkins, CEO of Western Wayne Family Health Centers. “Many of our patients who had been using the sliding fee scale got coverage and were suddenly able to access preventive screenings, procedures and get medications they knew they needed but didn’t have a way to pay for it. The costs of cutting off this literal lifeline away are huge to society at large, and tragic to these people who are gaining better health and wellbeing.” “Getting insurance has improved my quality of life,” said Bishop Walter L. Starghill, who gained coverage through Medicaid expansion in Michigan under the ACA. “I can now go to a clinic in my neighborhood to get services, staffed by friendly people who look like me. The impact on black men with increased access to insurance coverage is big—we didn’t take care of ourselves till it was too late and then had to go to the ER. It is psychologically beneficial to have that insurance card in your pocket. Now we can get checked out early and take care of ourselves before it is too late.” "Everyone needs to remember the ACA is an economic driver, first and foremost because healthy people can work, and unhealthy people cannot,” said Mary Zatina, Vice President for Government Relations and Community Affairs at Beaumont Health. “Our hospitals are some of the biggest employers in their communities and states. Healthcare is the source of technology, engineering, and advanced training. It is the knowledge that makes our country the world leader it is. On top of all that, hospitals provide the compassion and tender care that we all say makes America great.” “I come from a family where many of its members have struggled with cancer,” said Dora Rodriguez-Sharkey, Member of UAW Local 3000. “My father, husband, and younger sister were recently diagnosed, and they would not have been able to get health care coverage after leaving their jobs – or would have gone bankrupt paying for it – without the ACA. The fact that people can no longer be denied coverage because of a pre-existing condition is the most valuable part of the ACA to me” “Labor has viewed access to healthcare as a right not a privilege for more than a century,” said Metro-Detroit AFL-CIO President Rick Blocker. “If Republicans repeal the Affordable Care Act they are telling working people they do not make enough money to have that right. They are telling working people that only the elite deserve access to health care.” Dr. Manzar Rajput, a geriatric psychiatrist and a member of the Association of Physicians of Pakistani Descent of North America (APPNA), also participated in the roundtable discussion about the ACA’s impact in Michigan. By the numbers – ACA in Michigan: 695,000 people in Michigan have gained health coverage since the ACA was implemented. 4.5 million people in Michigan now have health plans that cover preventive services without any copays, coinsurance or deductibles. Roughly 1.6 million people in Michigan have pre-existing health conditions, and could have their coverage rescinded if the ACA is repealed. 212,000 Michigan seniors have saved an average of $1,100 on their prescription drug coverage thanks to closing the “donut hole” gap in coverage. Michigan received $3.08 billion in federal Medicaid dollars to implement the Healthy Michigan plan. This revenue could be lost if the ACA is repealed. A recent University of Michigan study found that Medicaid expansion in Michigan has boosted our economy and our budget and will continue to do so for the next five years. According to the study, the Healthy Michigan plan has generated more than 30,000 new jobs each year – one-third of them being in healthcare and 85 percent in the private sector. These jobs resulted in approximately $2.3 billion more in personal spending power for Michigan residents.
01.06.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – As the National Football League Playoffs kick off this weekend, Reps. Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and Suzan DelBene (WA-01) wagered on whether the Seattle Seahawks or the Detroit Lions would win in Saturday’s NFC Wild Card game. Dingell is wagering items from Zingerman’s Deli, while DelBene is offering up Washington wine and Beecher’s cheese. “The Lions may be going into Saturday’s game as underdogs, but the Seahawks should know better than to take Detroit grit and tenacity for granted,” Dingell said. “With the postseason on the line, all bets are off. The Lions are hungry for a playoff win, and we look forward to enjoying some Washington wine and cheese after cheering them to victory this weekend.” “Ending the season with three losses in a row has to hurt, so I’m sure Matt Stafford and Detroit will give it their best this weekend. But with the advantage of playing at the Clink with the 12s, Pete Carroll and the Seahawks will make this game against the Lions look easy,” DelBene said. “Not to mention, when did the Lions last win an away playoff game? I wouldn’t know, I wasn’t born yet.” The Seahawks will face Lions in the NFC Wild Card game on Saturday, Jan. 7, 2017. The game is at CenturyLink Field in Seattle at 8:15 p.m. Eastern.
01.06.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Recently elected to her second term serving Michigan’s 12th Congressional District, U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) was appointed by her colleagues yesterday evening to serve on the House Committee on Energy and Commerce (E&C) in the 115th Congress. The influential E&C Committee has broad jurisdiction over issues including commerce and trade, energy policy, environmental quality, telecommunications, consumer protections, automotive safety and health care. “It is an honor to be appointed to the Energy and Commerce Committee to be a voice for the Midwest on issues that matter most to working families,” said Dingell. “The issues before E&C are those that drive the economy in Michigan, including promoting manufacturing and job growth, protecting the Great Lakes, building a 21st century auto industry, and providing quality, affordable healthcare for all Americans. These are also the issues that drive my passion, and among my top priorities will be supporting the development and deployment of connected and automated vehicles, which represent the future of mobility, and crafting health care and long-term care policies that will support our families as they grow older. “I want to thank Leader Pelosi, my colleagues Rosa DeLauro and Eric Swalwell, Co-Chairs of the House Democratic Steering and Policy Committee, and all members of the Democratic Caucus for this honor, and I pledge to work hard on behalf of every American. I look forward to working with Chairman Walden, Ranking Member Pallone and all of my colleagues on policies that will help create jobs, incentivize clean energy technologies, and keep our air clean to breathe and our water safe to drink.” “Congresswoman Debbie Dingell is a steadfast champion for working families,” House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi said. “As a member of the Energy and Commerce Committee, Congresswoman Dingell will continue to be a bold leader in our fight for quality, affordable health care, especially the long-term care that our seniors so richly deserve. Every day, Congresswoman Dingell’s strategic leadership and skill inform Democrats’ fight for good-paying manufacturing jobs in the Great Lakes region and across America.” “I’m thrilled to have Congresswoman Dingell join the Energy and Commerce Committee,” said the Committee’s Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ). “Congresswoman Dingell’s vast experience at building coalitions to promote auto and manufacturing jobs will be essential as we work to build a stronger economy. She will also be an important voice in protecting healthcare for all Americans at a time when the Affordable Care Act, Medicare, and Medicaid are under assault. Her expertise and strong defense of the Great Lakes will also be valuable during environmental and nuclear debates in the Committee.” During her first term, Dingell served on the House Budget Committee and the Committee on Natural Resources, where she was ranking member of the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee.
01.04.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today applauded Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Jeh Johnson’s decision to redesignate Yemen for Temporary Protected Status (TPS). DHS first designated Yemen for TPS in September 2015 following Dingell’s urging. The redesignation extends the existing TPS designation for an additional 18 months, from March 4, 2017 through September 3, 2018. Eligible Yemeni nationals residing in the United States may register or re-register for TPS with U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS). Details and procedures for applying for TPS were posted today in the federal register and can be found online at www.uscis.gov/tps. “After nearly two years of armed conflict, the situation in Yemen remains dire,” said Dingell. “If Yemeni nationals visiting or living in the U.S. are required to return home during this horrific civil war, their personal safety and lives would be put at risk. This important redesignation by the Secretary of Homeland Security will provide families relief and a safe haven during this time of conflict, and it is critical that all who may be eligible apply. Our office stands ready to assist those who may need assistance in registering or re-registering for this designation.” The TPS redesignation for Yemen is effective March 4, 2017, and will be in effect through September 3, 2018. The designation means that, during the designated period, eligible nationals of Yemen (and people without nationality who last habitually resided in Yemen) who are approved for TPS will not be removed from the United States. • The 60-day re-registration period for those who received TPS under the previous designation runs from January 4, 2017 through March 6, 2017. • The 180-day initial registration period for new applicants under the Yemen TPS redesignation runs from January 4, 2017 through July 3, 2017. For more information about the application process and eligibility requirements, please visit www.ucis.gov/tps. Members of the community who need assistance should contact Dingell’s Dearborn office at 313-278-2936.
01.03.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today joined AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka and House colleagues to call on President-Elect Trump to live up to his campaign promises and begin renegotiating NAFTA within his first hundred days of taking office, as he pledged during his campaign. “For too long, trade agreements like NAFTA have failed to level the playing field for American workers, reducing wages and costing hardworking families in Michigan and across the country the opportunity to earn a decent living,” Dingell said. “Donald Trump said during his campaign that he wanted to renegotiate this failed trade agreement, and I said for almost two years that his message on trade was resonating. What I hope now is that President-Elect Trump will make this issue a priority in his first 100 days in office and work with Congress on a new approach to trade that will create jobs, grow wages and put American workers first. It is important to note that Canada and Mexico have agreed that NAFTA needs to be revisited and modernized. This should be done on a bipartisan basis and we are here and ready to work with him. “I am a car girl and proud of it. Our industry has been badly hurt by NAFTA, which has cost us a million jobs across the country. Today 40% of a car can be made in China or elsewhere around the world and still count as being made in North America. We must strengthen rules of origin for automobiles and auto parts by closing loopholes that encourage job growth in Asia and create new incentives to increase production in North America. We also need strong, enforceable protections against currency manipulation, the mother of all trade barriers. Over the last decades currency manipulation has cost five million American jobs. We need our government to fight for companies in the global marketplace the same way other countries do. This threat must be addressed. “Today, we call on President-Elect Trump to stand up for the working men and women who keep this country going. We stand ready to work together at the federal, state and local levels to make the U.S. the most attractive place in the world for manufacturing investment.”
01.03.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today applauded Ford’s announcement that the company will invest $700 million and add 700 new jobs at the Flat Rock Assembly Plant in Michigan’s 12th Congressional District for the development of autonomous and electric vehicles. Ford also announced plans for introducing seven new electrified vehicles over the next five years, including the Mustang and F-150, and that the company is cancelling plans to build a new plant in Mexico. “It is a great day for manufacturing in Michigan and the United States with Ford’s announcement that its highest-tech vehicles will continue to be built right here in the U.S. Our challenge now is to continue to do everything we can – together – to keep Michigan at the forefront of innovation and technology and keep manufacturing in the United States. “Today’s announcement demonstrates what can happen when we do work together at the federal, state and local levels with workers and manufacturers to keep jobs in the U.S. This announcement also shows that the American auto industry continues to lead the way in many areas that will define the future of mobility, including autonomous vehicles and electric vehicles. Michigan’s auto workers are the best in the world, and Ford’s announcement today of a $700 million investment in the Flat Rock Assembly Plant that creates 700 new jobs illustrates their confidence in the U.S. workforce. This investment will ensure that Ford’s fully autonomous commercial vehicles will be produced right here in the United States, resulting in good paying American jobs and ensuring America continues to be on the cutting edge of these potentially life-saving technologies. This is a great way to start the New Year.”
12.22.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – President Obama signed into law the bipartisan Great Lakes Fish and Wildlife Restoration Act introduced by U.S. Representatives Debbie Dingell (MI-12), Candice Miller (MI-10), and Darin LaHood (IL-18) to provide critical resources and funding to conserve and restore fish and wildlife in the Great Lakes. The legislation was included as a provision of S. 612, the Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation (WIIN) Act, and it reauthorizes the Great Lakes Fish and Wildlife Restoration Act for the first time since 2006. “Water is a part of who we are in Michigan, and as someone who grew up on the St. Clair River, protecting the Great Lakes is personal to me and to so many who call our state home,” said Rep. Dingell. “I’m pleased the President signed into law this critical legislation that will protect the wildlife habitats that make our state unique and provide countless opportunities for recreation, support economic development, create jobs and benefit our environment. I’d like to thank Reps. Miller and LaHood for their partnership in getting this legislation across the finish line and for their dedication to protecting the Great Lakes for future generations.” “Those of us who grew up along the shores of the Great Lakes understand that they are more than just a recreational joy, they are a way of life,” said Rep. Candice Miller. “Supporting billions of dollars in commercial and recreational industries per year, they are how we put food on the table, how we pay the mortgage. The recent reauthorization of the Great Lakes Fish and Wildlife Restoration Act is critical to protecting the ecosystems that provide us with not only our way of life, but 20% of the world’s fresh drinking water supply. This critical legislation will help preserve the habitat of the entire Great Lakes basin for generations to come.” “I am pleased to see legislation that I introduced in the House earlier this year signed into law by the President. As a father who regularly enjoys the outdoors with my three sons, modernizing the Great Lakes Fish and Wildlife Restoration Act will revamp conservation efforts for outdoorsmen and increase economic opportunities for our fishermen,” stated Rep. LaHood. “I want to thank my colleagues, Rep. Debbie Dingell and Rep. Candice Miller, for joining me in introducing this legislation and for their bipartisan efforts to protect our Great Lakes and wildlife conservation efforts. The Midwest is the fortunate home of the beautiful Great Lakes region, and improving its conservation will surely improve the state’s commercial, recreational, and preservation activities throughout our waterways.” “Ducks Unlimited is pleased that the Great Lakes Fish and Wildlife Restoration Act was reauthorized in WIIN, and we appreciate Reps. Dingell, Miller and LaHood’s roles and all the bipartisan support the act garnered,” said Gildo Tori, director of public policy for Ducks Unlimited’s Great Lakes/Atlantic Region. “This act will ensure much-needed fish and wildlife habitat restoration will continue for the benefit of sportsmen and women, and all Great Lakes basin residents.” “The Great Lakes Fish and Wildlife Restoration Act is premier legislation that devotes important funds to the protection and recovery of the region’s living natural resources,” said Great Lakes Fishery Commission chair David Ullrich. “For more than twenty-five years, officials from the eight Great Lakes states and the tribes have used the act to identify top priorities for restoration and direct funds to where they are most needed to get the best return on investment. The Great Lakes Fishery Commission looks forward to working with Congresswoman Dingell, Congresswoman Miller, Congressman LaHood, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, and the basin’s many partners in implementing this legislation.” The Great Lakes Fish and Wildlife Restoration Act of 2016 authorizes the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service to provide assistance to local groups for cooperative conservation, restoration, and management of fish and wildlife and their habitats. It also makes it easier for local groups to come up with matching funds, which means more conservation and restoration projects that improve water quality, protect species habitat, and improve access for outdoor recreation. Since 1998, the Great Lakes Fish and Wildlife Restoration Act has provided federal funding to 157 research and restoration projects in the Great Lakes Basin – from restoring habitat for the Kirtland Warbler, an endangered species, to detecting the successful reproduction of Lake Trout in southern Michigan.
12.21.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Debbie Dingell (D-MI) and Rep. Mark Pocan (D-WI) led a letter with 24 House Members from Heartland states to Majority Leader McConnell, Leader-elect Schumer, Speaker Ryan, and Leader Pelosi urging immediate action in the upcoming Congress to expand economic opportunities in manufacturing communities harmed by the outsourcing of American jobs. “The frustration and despair felt by workers in our region is palpable, and the discourse during the year’s election detailing the lack of opportunity for the working class underscores the need for solutions to these challenges. Congress has a responsibility to address their concerns and work together to strengthen the economic stability of these communities,” the letter states. “Too many working class families in our districts have been left behind because of the outsourcing of American jobs. It is critical Congress takes immediate action to jumpstart the economic prosperity of these communities.” The letter to Congressional Leadership was signed by Reps. Mark Pocan (D-WI), Debbie Dingell (D-MI), Brendan F. Boyle (D-PA), Cheri Bustos (D-IL), André Carson (D-IN), Matt Cartwright (D-PA), Emanuel Cleaver (D-MO), John Conyers (D-MI), Mike Doyle (D-PA), Keith Ellison (D-MN), Bill Foster (D-IL), Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL), Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), Robin L. Kelly (D-IL), Brenda L. Lawrence (D-MI), Sander M. Levin (D-MI), Daniel Lipinski (D-IL), Dave Loebsack (D-IA), Betty McCollum (D-MN), Gwen S. Moore (D-WI), Richard M. Nolan (D-MN), Tim Ryan (D-OH), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), and Pete Visclosky (D-IN). The text of the letter is below, and you can find an electronic copy here. Dear Majority Leader McConnell, Leader-elect Schumer, Speaker Ryan, and Leader Pelosi: We write today to urge immediate action in the 115th Congress to expand economic opportunity in communities harmed by the outsourcing of American jobs. Our states encompass communities that once served as thriving hubs for manufacturing and development, providing the opportunity for working class families to achieve the American Dream. In recent decades, the livelihoods of these workers have been pulled out from beneath them. We have watched too many factories shutter their doors and too many workers lose their jobs, decimating these neighborhoods and leaving families behind. The frustration and despair felt by workers in our region is palpable, and the discourse during the year’s election detailing the lack of opportunity for the working class underscores the need for solutions to these challenges. Congress has a responsibility to address their concerns and work together to strengthen the economic stability of these communities. For these reasons, we urge Congress to prioritize the consideration and passage of legislation consistent with the following principles: 1. We should close loopholes in our tax code which reward companies that ship jobs overseas and punish companies that stay in the United States and invest in American workers. 2. Federal contracting and procurement policies should give preference to American labor and domestic-made goods so our taxpayer dollars benefit working class families in the United States. 3. We should increase investments in education and prepare workers for careers in advanced manufacturing and other industries that will be pivotal in the 21st century economy. 4. Trade Adjustment Assistance and retraining programs should be improved and expanded to give workers the opportunity to get back on their feet when confronting job displacement. 5. We should expand access to quality broadband services and increased telecommunications connectivity so all communities have the digital resources that are necessary to compete in our digital economy. 6. The promise of a secure retirement must be upheld by preserving benefits that workers have paid into and earned, including Social Security, Medicare, and workplace pension guarantees. Too many working class families in our districts have been left behind because of the outsourcing of American jobs. It is critical Congress takes immediate action to jumpstart the economic prosperity of these communities by passing legislation that adheres to the principles listed above. We hope you will stand with us and our constituents during the 115th Congress to advance these goals and revive the American Dream for workers across the country.
12.13.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement on the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) National Highway Traffic Safety Administration’s (NHTSA) issuance of a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) to mandate the use of vehicle-to-vehicle (V2V) technologies and vehicles. “NHTSA and DOT deserve our thanks for releasing an NPRM enabling the use of V2V technologies, which have the promise of saving lives and improving auto safety. V2V technologies will help make drivers aware of threats they would otherwise be unable to see, such as warnings if an unseen car is approaching an intersection or when it is unsafe to make a left turn, and could help eliminate up to 80 percent of non-impaired accidents on the road today. NHTSA estimates that a red light warning system enabled by V2V technologies could help avoid over 250,000 crashes and 2,000 fatalities annually. Today’s announcement moves the ball forward on auto safety and will also help ensure the United States remains on the cutting edge of developing these potentially life-saving technologies. “In order for these technologies to work properly, we must ensure that auto makers are using V2V devices that ‘speak the same language’ as the NPRM proposes. It is important to note that the 5.9 GHz band of spectrum has already been allocated for Dedicated Short-Range Communications (DSRC) radios that will be used to implement this technology. It is crucial that the FCC ensure that any potential sharing of the band does not interfere with DSRC so these potentially life-saving technologies can reach consumers as soon as possible.”
12.12.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representatives Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and Tim Walberg (MI-07) today sent a letter to U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Secretary Robert McDonald seeking answers about steps that are being taken to improve performance and quality of care at the Detroit VA. The letter follows press reports that the Detroit VA Medical Center has become a one-star facility based on an internal rating system used by the VA, called the Strategic Analytics for Improvement and Learning (SAIL) database. “We are deeply disturbed to learn that the Detroit VA, which serves many of our constituents, has fallen to a one-star facility,” the Representatives wrote. “The slip to a one-star facility is extremely troubling and we must ensure that veterans receiving healthcare at the facility not be harmed in any way. We must get at the root causes of the problems at the Detroit VA in an expeditious manner.” The Detroit VA saw performance deteriorations in three critical SAIL categories: their Healthcare Effectiveness Data and Information Set (HEDIS) score, wait time for specialty care appointments and readmission rates for cardiovascular and medical patient cohorts. The Representatives are requesting information about how VA Headquarters intends to ensure the Detroit VA improves on each target area, the timeline for doing so, and what Congress needs to do to ensure progress is being made and patients are safe. The Representatives also questioned the lack of transparency surrounding the SAIL database. “As you know, this information is not released to the public,” they wrote. “Veterans, just like every other patient, deserve to know how their hospitals are performing and what services need to be improved. Having a secret rating system only serves to increase distrust of the VA and may give the appearance that the Department has something to hide. To address these concerns, we introduced legislation earlier this year that would improve transparency at the VA by requiring each VA medical facility to issue a quarterly report on the rate of surgical infections and cancelled or transferred surgeries at VA hospitals. Increasing transparency is critical to understanding the type of care veterans are receiving and how to fix any problems we are facing.” Dingell and Walberg will meet with Mr. Robert McDivitt, Director for VISN 10, and Dr. Pamela Reeves, Director of the Detroit VA Medical Center, this week and will continue working with the VA to address the problems and ensure veterans are receiving the best possible care. The full letter can be read here and below. December 12, 2016 The Honorable Robert McDonald Secretary U.S. Department of Veteran’s Affairs 810 Vermont Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20420 Dear Secretary McDonald: This letter is regarding the poor rating of the Detroit VA Medical Center which we learned of last Friday following the public release of an internal rating system used by the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs to assess the performance of VA hospitals. We are deeply disturbed to learn that the Detroit VA, which serves many of our constituents, has fallen to a one-star facility. The slip to a one-star facility is extremely troubling and we must ensure that veterans receiving healthcare at the facility not be harmed in any way. We must get at the root causes of the problems at the Detroit VA in an expeditious manner. Part of the issue is the lack of transparency surrounding the quality rating system used by the VA, called the Strategic Analytics for Improvement and Learning (SAIL) database. As you know, this information is not released to the public. Veterans, just like every other patient, deserve to know how their hospitals are performing and what services need to be improved. Having a secret rating system only serves to increase distrust of the VA and may give the appearance that the Department has something to hide. To address these concerns, we introduced legislation earlier this year that would improve transparency at the VA by requiring each VA medical facility to issue a quarterly report on the rate of surgical infections and cancelled or transferred surgeries at VA hospitals. Increasing transparency is critical to understanding the type of care veterans are receiving and how to fix any problems we are facing. In regards to the current situation, we are committed to working with you and the leadership at the Detroit VA to address these problems so veterans know they are receiving the best possible care. We request answers to the following questions: 1. Please provide us with a complete and un-redacted copy of the latest SAIL star rankings, as well as a list of all rankings going back 5 years. As you are aware, our only knowledge of the star rankings is coming from press reports. 2. The Detroit VA saw performance deteriorations in three critical SAIL categories: their HEDIS score, wait time for specialty care appointments and readmission rates for cardiovascular and medical patient cohorts. How does VA Headquarters intend to ensure that the Detroit VA improves on each of these important targets? What is the timeline for these improvements? How will we be kept informed of their progress? 3. Does the Detroit VA have to submit a formal plan to VA Headquarters for how they intend to improve their performance and quality of care? 4. What assistance and resources is VA Headquarters offering the Detroit VA, or any other one-star facility, to ensure all necessary and appropriate measures to improve care at the facility are occurring? 5. In general, are there any penalties or punishment in place for one-star hospitals in the VA system? If so, please provide a detailed explanation of the penalties. If not, please explain why the VA thinks it is unnecessary to have increased accountability for struggling hospitals. 6. How is the public informed if a hospital in their area only has one star? What type of accountability systems are in place for a hospital which stayed at one-star status for over a year to ensure performance is immediately improved? How many hospitals nationwide have been one-star hospitals for over a year? 7. How are the metrics used in the SAIL system determined? How often are these metrics reviewed and updated? 8. Will both VA Headquarters and the Detroit VA commit to providing our offices with regular briefing and updates on your progress in improving the star rating of the Detroit VA? 9. How do we ensure that veterans that are currently receiving treatment at the Detroit VA are being properly cared for and are not in danger? We are deeply disturbed to read this report in last Friday’s newspaper. Providing for our veterans is a critical responsibility for you and us. It is absolutely essential that we ensure veterans at the Detroit VA are receiving the good, quality healthcare which they were promised and that it not be impaired in any way. We are meeting with Mr. Robert McDivitt, Director for VISN 10, and Dr. Pamela Reeves, Director of the Detroit VA Medical Center, this week and must be kept informed of how this will be fixed moving forward. We all must come together to address the problems at the Detroit VA so our veterans can have confidence that they are receiving the best possible care which they were promised. Providing prompt answers to our questions and working to improve transparency at the VA will help us achieve these critical goals. We look forward to receiving your response. Sincerely, Debbie Dingell Tim Walberg Member of Congress Member of Congress
12.08.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today continued a Dingell holiday tradition, releasing the 2016 edition of the annual Dingell Jingle. Full text of the jingle can be read below. ‘Twas the day before the government would shut down for business When the House came together – we passed a budget before Christmas! While Congress moved slowly, in its usual fashion One issue in particular wasn’t getting much traction “Sell ice to an Eskimo,” some said with a glint Do that and then finally we’ll give you money for Flint We fought tooth and nail and reason finally prevailed We passed funding for Flint families, the waiting curtailed Now that the partisan tug of war is complete We reflect on a year of both challenges and treats From Cures to Great Lakes, we did make some progress A Medal of Honor for a hero was done in the process In Rio, we showcased the best of the best For Team USA, Simone vaulted above all the rest Michael Phelps took home his 23rd gold medal From basketball to rowing our team was incredible We were all celebrating, but then turned to despair When Lochte showed up with bad behavior, and worse hair At home, Michigan’s sports teams continue to shineJumpman debuted while Harbaugh racked up some fines While EMU and the Lions have newfound success We know that first down in Columbus was truly a mess But not to worry, this holiday we have two bowl games to see EMU in the Bahamas and in Miami, the Wolverines As the New Year approaches, we’ve seen stark divisions Our country has spoken, we’ve made big decisions We all have moved forward in our own way In our office, we chose a Christmas display But good news for Trump and his Twitter vice Even at 90, the Dean’s still tweeting advice So we say goodbye to a President who lifted us up To be sure in these eight years, he’s earned his new look No one will be sadder to see him go Than his friend and our favorite Vice President Joe But maybe just maybe a new announcement we’ll see Happy holidays to all, and Biden 2020
12.08.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement on House passage of a continuing resolution that funds the government through April 2017, and the Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation (WIIN) Act. The WIIN Act authorizes $170 million in aid to Flint, while the continuing resolution appropriates the funding. “I am pleased that today, the House finally came together to provide resources to help address the water crisis in Flint. Flint families have been living a nightmare for more than two years and are still unable to turn on their taps without worrying about lead exposure. They have waited long enough, and while neither of the bills we passed today is perfect, they provide the critical resources Flint needs to begin to recover from this horrific man-made crisis and address the contaminated public drinking water system. I’d like to thank Dan Kildee and Fred Upton for their bipartisan leadership in ensuring aid for Flint families was included in these packages. We always help our fellow Americans during a time of need, and helping Flint is the right and decent thing to do – and we shouldn’t have to pay a ransom to get it done. “Yet this is exactly what we are being asked to do in both of these bills. While I am pleased that the WIIN Act also includes bipartisan legislation I introduced to support fish and wildlife restoration in the Great Lakes, I have serious concerns about a provision to address the drought in California that would weaken critical Endangered Species Act protections. It is also disappointing that Congress once again departed from regular order by failing to pass a budget or appropriation bills this year and is instead funding the government though a short-term continuing resolution. Our government should not be run on auto-pilot. The continuing resolution does not provide certainty to families or businesses, and fails to adequately address a critical problem that threatens pensions for miners and their families. Working men and women deserve better. “While there are parts of these packages I do not support, we cannot let the perfect be the enemy of the good. Passing these bills will avoid a government shutdown and provide vital resources for Flint families, who need and deserve our support. We cannot turn our backs on the people of Flint in this time of need, which is why these bills have my support.”
12.02.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement today after the House approved the Harry Lew Military Hazing Accountability and Prevention Act as part of the FY2017 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). Dingell co-sponsored the legislation with Representatives Judy Chu (CA-27), Jackie Speier (CA-14), and Ted Lieu (CA-33) to require the Pentagon to track, survey, and make annual reports on the problem of hazing in the military. “Since the death of my constituent Raheel Siddiqui at Parris Island earlier this year, I have been committed to ensuring his family receives the answers they deserve and that the Marine Corps addresses the serious issues that led to this tragedy,” said Dingell. “Today the House took an important step toward bringing more transparency and accountability to the system so hazing is tracked and handled appropriately in our military ranks. The men and women who step up to serve our country in uniform should receive fair treatment on their way to becoming our nation’s finest fighters. This is an important step toward ensuring a tragedy like this never happens again.” The Harry Lew Military Hazing Accountability and Prevention Act, named in honor of Rep. Chu’s nephew, a marine who died after being hazed by his platoon in Afghanistan in 2011, would require the Pentagon to create a database of hazing incidents in the military, in addition to conducting an annual survey of servicemembers to determine the prevalence of hazing incidents and submitting an annual report on what is being done to stop hazing through training and response. This follows a report by the Government Accountability Office (GAO) released in February of this year that showed that the Department of Defense (DoD) lacks consistent data on military hazing incidents, and that servicemembers across branches are in need of better training to combat hazing.
12.01.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today announced that the University of Michigan will receive a $2,470,600 grant through the U.S. Department of Transportation’s University Transportation Centers (UTC) program to establish a Center for Connected and Automated Transportation (CCAT). CCAT will advance research in the field of comprehensive transportation safety and congestion management by taking advantage of connected vehicles, connected infrastructure, and autonomous vehicles. “We are at the cusp of a major transformation in the auto industry, and the University of Michigan is leading the way in the research and development of new technologies that will shape the future of mobility,” said Dingell, co-chair of the House Smart Transportation Caucus. “This grant will give U-M new tools to address the critical transportation challenges facing our nation by promoting connected and autonomous technology research and education. I’m also pleased that Washtenaw Community College will be a partner in this project, as they will bring a unique perspective and skill set to this important effort. This partnership demonstrates the level of expertise the state of Michigan has in this critical field.” CCAT will test and demonstrate emerging technologies and concepts by leveraging the Ann Arbor Connected Vehicle Test Environment, a unique ‘living laboratory’ that has instrumented urban streets and highways, thousands of connected vehicles, motorcycles, bicycles, and smart phones; and Mcity, a state-of-the art off-roadway test facility for connected and automated vehicle (CAV) testing and evaluation developed at University of Michigan. Sample research topics include traffic flow characteristics and operations for mixed streams of CAVs and regular vehicles; transportation infrastructure design and planning for CAVs; cybersecurity management of CAVs and infrastructure; and societal impacts of CAVs in terms of safety, efficiency, and environmental sustainability. The grant is one of 35 five-year grants awarded through the UTC program. U-M will lead a consortium of regional colleges and universities on the project, including Washtenaw Community College, Purdue University, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, University of Akron, and Central State University.
11.30.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today voted in support of the bipartisan 21st Century Cures Act, a package of bills that dedicates $6.3 billion over 10 years to fund critical biomedical research and fight the opioid epidemic. The legislation also includes much-needed mental health reforms. “Today’s passage of the 21st Century Cures Act is a bipartisan success that will bring hope to millions of Americans and transform the way we treat diseases in this country. Not only will this legislation bring our health care infrastructure into the 21st century to get cures to the patients who need them, it will provide critical resources to fix our broken mental health system and address the opioid crisis, which is affecting too many families across the country. “The 21st Century Cures Act will have a positive impact on every patient who is waiting for a cure, every family that suffers from mental illness, and every American who is addicted to opioids or loves someone who is. I want to thank Fred Upton and Diana DeGette for their strong bipartisan leadership on this critical effort. It is because of their commitment and years of hard work that this win for patients and families will cross the finish line.”
11.29.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement after the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) announced that 1,4-dioxane will be among the first ten chemicals evaluated under new reforms to the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA). “EPA’s decision to conduct a risk evaluation of 1,4-dioxane for potential hazards to human health and the environment is critical for the 12th district of Michigan. The growing dioxane plume that has been spreading through Ann Arbor’s groundwater for decades poses a potential threat to our families and the community, and this announcement from EPA will help give us new tools to deal with this decades-old problem. “TSCA reform was one of the few bipartisan accomplishments of the Congress this year. Under the new reforms, 1,4-dioxane and thousands of other potentially hazardous chemicals will be reviewed for impacts on health and the environment on a priority basis. It is very significant that 1,4-dioxane is among the first ten chemicals that EPA chose to evaluate and speaks to the importance of this work. The EPA must complete a risk evaluation of dioxane and the other nine chemicals within three years to determine whether they present a risk to humans and the environment. If it is determined that a chemical presents an unreasonable risk, EPA must mitigate that risk within two years. “We will continue to monitor this effort by EPA to ensure families in Michigan and across the country are protected from this toxic chemical. In the short-term, a petition to declare the Gelman dioxane plume a federal superfund site has been submitted to the EPA and we will continue to work with local officials to move that request forward. We will work with all stakeholders to ensure this contamination is properly remediated and the health of our families is protected.”
11.29.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representatives Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) today sent a letter to U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Gina McCarthy urging EPA to list the open waters of Lake Erie’s Western Basin as impaired under the terms of the Clean Water Act. The area continues to experience a decline in water quality due to high levels of nutrients that are producing harmful toxic algal blooms, which pose a serious health risk for residents. While Michigan has included Lake Erie on its list of impaired waters submitted to the EPA, Ohio has not. “Ensuring that citizens have clean drinking water is an essential role of government,” Dingell and Kaptur wrote. “One third of the total population of the Great Lakes Basin resides in the Lake Erie watershed, and 11 million people depend on this freshwater resource for their drinking water. Beyond the serious health considerations, the Great Lakes are home to a $4.5 billion recreational and commercial fishing industry, which is also threatened by the persistent presence of harmful algal blooms.” “We applaud the State of Michigan for taking this responsible and proactive stance,” the Representatives continued. “Unfortunately, the State of Ohio has chosen not to follow suit, despite clear evidence of Lake Erie’s impairment and the potential risks to human health and safety. An impairment designation for the Western Basin of Lake Erie by Ohio EPA is an essential step in an effective response to managing excessive phosphorous, the root cause of harmful algal blooms. We urge you to use your legal authority under the Clean Water Act to bring Ohio’s list into alignment with the State of Michigan as an important step in addressing this public health threat.” Under the Clean Water Act, states are required to submit lists of impaired waters to EPA’s regional offices each year. These are waters that are too polluted or otherwise degraded to meet water quality standards. The law requires that the states establish priority rankings for waters on the lists and develop Total Maximum Daily Loads (TMDL), a calculation of the maximum amount of a pollutant that a water body can receive and still safely meet water quality standards. This serves as a starting point for restoration or protection activities. The Representatives’ full letter can be read here and below. Dear Administrator McCarthy: The Western Basin of Lake Erie continues to experience a decline in water quality due to high levels of nutrients that are fueling harmful algal blooms and the toxin they produce. These blooms represent a serious health risk for our constituents. In 2014, nearly half a million citizens in the City of Toledo’s drinking water service area experienced a three day drinking water ban due to high levels of microcystin in the treatment system. USEPA has acknowledged the urgent need for addressing nutrient related toxins in its on-going work with Canada through the bi-national Great Lakes Water Quality Agreement process. Yet, the path to recovery requires additional legal reinforcement through USEPA’s recognition of the open waters of Lake Erie’s Western Basin as impaired under the terms of the Clean Water Act. Recently, the State of Michigan stepped up to its responsibilities by recognizing the serious challenges facing Lake Erie. Michigan’s Department of Environmental Quality has included the open waters of Western Lake Erie on its Section 303(d) list of impaired waters, as submitted to USEPA. We applaud the State of Michigan for taking this responsible and proactive stance. Unfortunately, the State of Ohio has chosen not to follow suit, despite clear evidence of Lake Erie’s impairment and the potential risks to human health and safety. An impairment designation for the Western Basin of Lake Erie by Ohio EPA is an essential step in an effective response to managing excessive phosphorous, the root cause of harmful algal blooms. We urge you to use your legal authority under the Clean Water Act to bring Ohio’s list into alignment with the State of Michigan as an important step in addressing this public health threat. Ensuring that citizens have clean drinking water is an essential role of government. One third of the total population of the Great Lakes Basin resides in the Lake Erie watershed, and 11 million people depend on this freshwater resource for their drinking water. Beyond the serious health considerations, the Great Lakes are home to a $4.5 billion recreational and commercial fishing industry, which is also threatened by the persistent presence of harmful algal blooms. We urge USEPA to fulfill its obligation under the Clean Water Act and to list the open waters of Lake Erie’s Western Basin as impaired. We also ask USEPA to provide leadership by coordinating the states’ efforts in the Western Lake Erie Basin to meet the 40 percent phosphorous reduction goals for waters in this region, as reflected in the Annex IV of the Great Lakes Water Quality Agreement with Canada. Through these actions, USEPA will fulfill its stated mission and legal obligation to protect human health and the environment.
11.21.2016	YPSILANTI TOWNSHIP, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and U.S. Senators Gary Peters (MI) and Debbie Stabenow (MI) today joined Governor Rick Snyder, state officials and leaders in automotive technology to celebrate the groundbreaking of the American Center for Mobility at Willow Run, a global center for testing, education and product development for connected and automated vehicles. “Today is a great step forward for Michigan and the auto industry,” said Congresswoman Dingell. “Connected and automated vehicles will revolutionize transportation and mobility over the next decade, and this state-of-the-art facility will help ensure that the technology of the future is developed right here in Michigan. We have the automotive know-how to lead the world in mobility innovation, and the American Center for Mobility will keep us at the forefront of that effort.” “Today’s groundbreaking is a significant step forward in ensuring the American Center for Mobility will keep Michigan and the United States at the forefront of advanced vehicle technologies,” said Senator Peters. “I’ve been proud to be involved in this project since its conception, and this world-class testing facility will bring together automakers, suppliers and researchers to develop and validate the vehicles of the future.” “I am so excited to break ground on this new facility that will secure Michigan’s future as a leader in autonomous and connected vehicles,” said Senator Stabenow. “Today’s celebration is another example of the big things Michigan can achieve when we work together. I look forward to a continued partnership with Senator Gary Peters and Congresswoman Debbie Dingell as well as federal, state and industry leaders as we look ahead to the future of the industry that built the American middle class.” The American Center for Mobility, located at the former Willow Run Site in Ypsilanti Township, will be a purpose-built facility designed for research, education, testing, standards-convening, product development, validation and self-certification for connected and automated technologies as well as future mobility.
11.18.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today announced that the Southeast Michigan Community Alliance (SEMCA) will receive a $6 million grant through the U.S. Department of Labor’s America’s Promise grant competition to strengthen and expand workforce training partnerships. “Regional partnerships between industry, education, labor and workforce training agencies are critical tools as we work to ensure students and workers are getting the training they need for 21st century jobs,” said Dingell. “Jobs in advanced manufacturing, robotics and the skilled trades will fuel our economy in Southeast Michigan now and in the future, and this grant will create a new initiative to prepare workers to succeed in these careers. I look forward to continuing to work with SEMCA to ensure workers in Southeast Michigan have the opportunities and training they need for fulfilling careers.” “This $6 million grant award will jumpstart a major regional initiative to help increase the number of unemployed and underemployed, non-traditional, and incumbent workers who receive state-of-the-art Robotic Training that employers in the region need today and in the future,” said Greg Pitoniak, SEMCA CEO. “The staff of the Workforce Intelligence Network for Southeast Michigan (WIN) have once again demonstrated their value to the region’s Michigan Works Agencies and Colleges by convening this initiative. We appreciate the support we have received from Congresswoman Dingell and other members of the Michigan Congressional delegation that enabled us to receive this funding.” SEMCA is one of 23 regional workforce partnerships nationwide to receive funding through the America’s Promise grant competition. The competition is designed to: · Increase opportunities for all Americans through tuition-free training for middle-to high-skilled occupations and industries. · Expand employer involvement in the design and delivery of training programs. · Utilize evidence-based sector strategies to increase employability, employment earnings, and outcomes of job seekers. · Leverage additional public, private, and foundation resources to scale and sustain proven strategies.
11.10.2016	ANN ARBOR, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) joined Dr. Mary Beth Skupien, Acting Director VA Ann Arbor Healthcare System, last night at Ann Arbor’s Annual Veteran Storytellers Event, Service Above Self, to announce that Ann Arbor has been approved by the VA Healthcare System and Fisher Foundation as the site of the first Fisher House in Michigan. Fisher House provides valuable housing opportunities for families of veterans who are receiving medical treatment at military and VA medical centers across the country. The announcement will impact the lives of 640,000 Michigan veterans and their families. “The men and women who serve our country deserve our gratitude and respect and the very best care possible,” said Dingell. “Fisher House provides a home away from home for veterans and their families so they can stay together throughout the treatment process and ease the road to recovery. Congratulations to the ‘Build It For The Brave’ committee, which has worked tirelessly to bring about this significant approval from the Fisher House Foundation. I will continue to work with them to make this vision a reality.” “We are thrilled to be the first Fisher House site for Michigan,” said Skupien. “The Ann Arbor community’s unfailing support for our Veterans brings us that much closer to fulfilling our noble mission. We look forward to an amazing partnership in this endeavor.” Approval of the Fisher House follows more than a year of hard work and cooperation by federal, state and local officials, university and community business leaders, and community activists to make the extraordinary medical care resources of Ann Arbor—one of the nation's greatest medical centers—far more accessible to the nation's military veterans. Dingell has long worked to bring a Fisher House to Ann Arbor and has worked to increase federal funding for Fisher House in the Congress.
11.07.2016	DEARBORN, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement after the death of a Marine recruit Friday at Marine Corps Recruit Depot, Parris Island. In March, Dingell’s constituent Raheel Siddiqui of Taylor, Michigan died during training camp at Parris Island following recurrent physical and verbal abuse by instructors. In October, another recruit suffered serious injuries after falling two stories and remains in serious condition. “I was deeply disturbed to learn of the recent incidents at Parris Island, including the death of a second recruit. Since the death of Raheel Siddiqui earlier this year, I’ve been working to get answers for his family and ensure the Marine Corps has processes in place to prevent a tragedy like this from happening again. I want the facts on Friday’s tragedy, but the loss of a second recruit raises serious questions. I am committed to getting to the root of this issue. The men and women who sign up to serve our country should not be dying in boot camp, and this third incident within eight months must be investigated thoroughly and expeditiously. I have already reached out to my colleagues in the Congress from Michigan to help ensure that.” Dingell has been in constant communication with the Marine Corps since Private Siddiqui’s death on March 18, 2016. She wrote General Neller seeking further clarification on the circumstances surrounding Siddiqui’s death, and consistently pressed for additional information about the investigation into drill instructors and senior leadership at Parris Island. Upon completion, the Marine Corps investigation revealed deviations from established policies and procedures for Marine Corps recruit training. Twenty Recruit Training Regiment personnel have been identified for possible military justice or administrative action.
10.28.2016	DEARBORN, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement after the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality (MDEQ) issued emergency rules to establish 1,4-dioxane standards across the state. Earlier this year Dingell sent a letter to MDEQ Director Keith Creagh urging the state to finalize stricter standards to help accelerate cleanup of the dioxane plume that has been spreading through Ann Arbor’s groundwater for decades. “The state made the right call to take swift, emergency action to ensure Michigan residents are protected following the discovery of elevated dioxane levels in shallow groundwater, particularly given the risk of vapor intrusion into people’s homes. This is a necessary first step to accelerate cleanup efforts of the ever-growing dioxane plume, but more must be done to ensure this contamination is properly remediated. Now that this improved standard is in place, local stakeholders must become parties to the consent decree so they can have a seat at the table when decisions are being made about how to move forward. The community deserves confidence in knowing that every effort is being made to protect public health and to hold those responsible accountable for cleaning up this mess. I will continue to work with EPA, MDEQ and all parties involved to ensure that public health is protected.” This week Dingell sent a letter to EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy questioning current efforts to remediate the dioxane plume. That letter can be read here.
10.25.2016	DEARBORN, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today sent a letter to U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Gina McCarthy questioning current efforts to remediate the Gelman dioxane plume in Ann Arbor. The letter comes after recent developments have increased the level of concern in the community, including the discovery of 1,4 dioxane in shallow groundwater on the west side of the city for the first time. “The recent reports of elevated dioxane levels near a neighborhood are deeply troubling and raise questions about the adequacy of existing remediation efforts, which Pall Life Sciences is required to do,” said Dingell. “This is clearly an issue that needs to be addressed immediately and it is my hope that this letter will help inform all stakeholders as we move forward toward a solution that will ensure this contamination is properly cleaned up.” The dioxane plume has been spreading through the groundwater in Ann Arbor for decades after an irresponsible business practice by Gelman Sciences, now owned by Pall Life Sciences, allowed the toxic chemical into the ground. Earlier this year, Dingell sent a letter to Michigan Department of Environmental Quality (MDEQ) Director Keith Creagh urging the state to finalize stricter standards to help accelerate cleanup of the dioxane plume. That letter can be read here. The letter to EPA Administrator McCarthy can be read here and below. October 25, 2016 The Honorable Gina McCarthy Administrator U.S. Environmental Protection Agency 1200 Pennsylvania Ave NW Washington, DC 20460 Dear Administrator McCarthy: This letter is regarding the contamination of groundwater in Ann Arbor, Michigan with 1,4-dioxane. The contamination is the result of irresponsible business practices by Gelman Sciences, now owned by Pall Life Sciences, which incorporated the chemical in its manufacturing of medical filters in Scio Township, Michigan. Between 1966 and 1986, wastewater containing 1,4-dioxane was sprayed on lawns and stored in unlined lagoons that has seeped through soil and rock layers into the groundwater and begun to spread in an ever-growing plume. It is my understanding that EPA has classified 1,4-dioxane as “likely to be carcinogenic in humans by all routes of exposure.” Recent developments have increased the level of concern in the community. First, the 1,4-dioxane plume has greatly expanded over the last 20 years, now encompassing an area over three square miles. It is troubling that the plume continues to grow even as remediation efforts are ongoing. Second, the number of monitoring wells that have had their highest reading ever has increased as well. Finally, 1,4-dioxane was recently detected in shallow groundwater on the west side of the city for the first time. This round of testing also detected chloroform and trichloroethane in groundwater. These developments are deeply troubling and raise questions about the adequacy of existing remediation efforts, which Pall Life Sciences is required to do by a court approved consent agreement. Therefore, I respectfully request answers to the following questions: 1. Current remediation efforts are being conducted by Pall Life Sciences and overseen by the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality (MDEQ) pursuant to a consent decree. What role does EPA have in ensuring that MDEQ and Pall are living up to their obligations and meeting the terms of the consent decree? 2. Has EPA reviewed whether the remediation plan outlined in the consent decree is consistent with requirements of the Safe Drinking Water Act and the Clean Water Act? 3. Based on available information, does EPA assess that the current level of contamination is an immediate threat to human health? 4. Residents have long been concerned that the expansion of the plume could lead to greater health risks through a vapor intrusion pathway. Recent testing has now detected 1,4-dioxane in shallow groundwater near a neighborhood. Is EPA concerned that dioxane could be inhaled as vapor when it comes into contact with building foundations and basements? 5. Does EPA believe the presence of chloroform and tricholoroethane in the groundwater is related to the 1,4-dioxane plume or are they unrelated? Thank you for your prompt attention to these questions. Sincerely, Debbie Dingell Member of Congress
10.05.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Reps. Debbie Dingell (D-MI), Don Beyer (D-VA), and Natural Resources Committee Ranking Member Raúl M. Grijalva (D-AZ), led 92 House Democrats today urging President Obama to veto any Republican attempts to strip Endangered Species Act (ESA) protections from any authorizing or spending bills. “The Endangered Species Act protects some of our most iconic lands and wildlife, and we shouldn’t be trying to gut it through unrelated bills to fund the government. We should be working together to improve conservation in this country, not rolling back the clock,” said Rep. Dingell. “The ESA is a critical tool to protect animals and land the American people care for deeply,” said Rep. Beyer. “Provisions that would remove protections for gray wolves, grizzly bears, or federally protected lands in Alaska, to name a few, advance an anti-wildlife, anti-climate agenda that has no place in Congress’s efforts to keep the government running.” “Bills to fund the government and protect our country have nothing to do with Republicans’ anti-environment, anti-wildlife ideology, and they should drop the act without further delay. No one is impressed by these tactics, and thanks to the good sense of the American people they’re destined to fail,” said Natural Resources Committee Ranking Member Raúl M. Grijalva. The letter’s authors wrote: We are writing today to convey our concern over the many damaging anti-wildlife provisions included in the House and Senate FY 2017 Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies appropriations bills, the House-passed energy package, and the FY 2017 House National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). If enacted, these provisions would undermine the Endangered Species Act (ESA), upend management of our national wildlife refuges and other federally protected lands, and harm individual species at risk of extinction. We urge you to maintain steadfast opposition to all of these provisions and reject any legislation that includes them. See the full text of the letter here and below: Dear Mr. President: We are writing today to convey our concern over the many damaging anti-wildlife provisions included in the House and Senate FY 2017 Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies appropriations bills, the House-passed energy package, and the FY 2017 House National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). If enacted, these provisions would undermine the Endangered Species Act (ESA), upend management of our national wildlife refuges and other federally protected lands, and harm individual species at risk of extinction. We urge you to maintain steadfast opposition to all of these provisions and reject any legislation that includes them. We appreciate the strong Statement of Administration Policy (SAP) issued July 11, 2016, opposing sections of the House Interior appropriations bill (H.R. 5538) that would “undermine the ESA and limit the ability of the Fish and Wildlife Service [FWS] to properly protect important species and habitats based on the best available science, including the greater sage grouse, lesser prairie chicken, delta smelt, and certain gray wolf populations,” as well as sections that would “undercut the ESA, preempt California water law, [and] fail to address critical elements of California's complex water challenges . . . .” Since issuance of the SAP, though, some members of the House majority have significantly escalated their assault on the ESA and other wildlife protections. Policy riders added on the House floor include language detrimental to the survival and recovery of gray wolves across the entire continental United States, Mexican gray wolves in the Southwest, the Preble’s meadow jumping mouse, and the New Mexico meadow jumping mouse. Further, language was also added that would threaten the survival of any ESA-listed species when FWS fails to meet its obligation under the ESA to review listed species’ status every five years; would limit court access for citizens who seek to enforce the ESA and other bedrock environmental laws; and would block Department of Interior policies designed to conserve wolves, grizzly bears, and other native carnivores on federally protected lands in Alaska. Some of these same provisions are also included in the Senate Interior appropriations bill, S. 3068. In addition to the numerous appropriations riders in FY 2017 appropriations bills, we are concerned by anti-wildlife provisions included in the House-passed energy package. Among the most harmful of these provisions are efforts to: strip existing ESA protections for certain gray wolf populations; gut efforts to combat wildlife trafficking and protect African elephants by restricting the sale of ivory; block Department of Interior efforts to conserve native carnivores on federally protected lands in Alaska; and override vital ESA protections for salmon and other native fish in California. We have further concerns that, for the second year running, the NDAA has become a vehicle for meritless attacks on America’s most imperiled wildlife. The House NDAA bill (H.R. 4909) would block cooperative efforts to conserve the greater sage-grouse, despite the Department of Defense asserting that these efforts will not “affect military training, operations, or readiness to any significant degree.” This provision would tip the scales heavily in favor of development throughout the sage-grouse’s 11-state range at the expense of the bird and the sagebrush ecosystem that it and scores of other wildlife species depend upon for survival. Additional House NDAA provisions seek to block new protections for the lesser prairie-chicken and remove existing protections for the American burying beetle – species whose habitat has hardly any overlap with military lands. We appreciate your consideration, and we urge you to ensure that all of these attacks on the ESA and wildlife are removed from any legislation you sign into law. We owe it to all Americans present and future to protect our natural heritage and leave behind a legacy of sound environmental stewardship. Sincerely, Donald S. Beyer Jr. MEMBER OF CONGRESS Debbie Dingell MEMBER OF CONGRESS Raúl Grijalva MEMBER OF CONGRESS
09.29.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representatives Debbie Dingell (MI-12), Zoe Lofgren (CA-19) and Ted Poe (TX-02) today led a bipartisan letter to Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Jeh Johnson seeking clarification on the recently revised DHS Traveler Redress Inquiry Program (DHS TRIP) and requesting that the redress procedures be further reviewed and revised to protect due process rights for individuals. DHS TRIP revised its redress policy in 2015 after courts ruled that the previous procedures violated the Due Process Clause of the U.S. Constitution. The Representatives are requesting information from Secretary Johnson about the steps being taken to ensure watch lists are accurate and to ensure that people who believe they are wrongly listed have a meaningful process to challenge their status. “Protecting and supporting our national security is one of our most fundamental responsibilities. It is also critical to protect due process under the law for all Americans,” said Congresswoman Dingell. “We have seen firsthand the challenges facing those wrongly listed on the No-Fly list – including Members of Congress – and the complex and lengthy process required to be removed. We must keep America safe without jeopardizing our founding principles. Every effort must be made to ensure the rights provided under the U.S. Constitution are afforded to all.” “For those wrongly included on the No Fly List, being removed can be a lengthy and complicated process,” said Congresswoman Lofgren. “I’m glad the Department of Homeland Security has demonstrated a willingness to improve this process, and I look forward to learning more about how they plan to implement changes as well as what further improvements can be made to ensure due process for those seeking correction of their erroneous watch list designation.” “DHS is faced with the task of balancing the personal rights of those who wish to travel with safety of those wishing to fly,” said Congressman Poe. “We must ensure that our constitutional rights are not trampled on as we protect the American public. Currently American citizens are being placed on the No-Fly list often with little or no notice and are not given a constitutionally sufficient way to challenge that listing. Those that choose to challenge and seek redress should be afforded full due process. The constitution should not be trampled on in an effort to protect the homeland, we can have both freedom and security.” For many individuals, getting off a government watch list is still a lengthy process and in some cases they are not allowed access to all the information the government has collected because of security classifications. In fiscal year 2014, a total of 9,766 DHS TRIP applications were filed with the Department and over 1,400 were still being processed. With a new set of procedures in place for over a year now, the Representatives are seeking answers to help better understand DHS TRIP and its overall effectiveness. In addition to Dingell, Lofgren and Poe, the letter is signed by Reps. Brenda Lawrence (MI-14), Paul Tonko (NY-20), André Carson (IN-07), Raúl M. Grijalva (AZ-03), Mike Honda (CA-17), Mike Quigley (IL-05), Jeff Miller (FL-01), Bill Pascrell (NJ-09), Thomas Massie (KY-04), Jim McDermott (WA-07), Robert Brady (PA-01), Donald S. Beyer Jr. (VA-08), Judy Chu (CA-27), Donna F. Edwards (MD-04), Keith Ellison (MN-05), and Loretta Sanchez (CA-46). The full letter can be read here and below. September 29, 2016 The Honorable Jeh Johnson U.S. Secretary of Homeland Security U.S. Department of Homeland Security 800 7th St. SW Washington, D.C. 20024 Dear Secretary Johnson: We write to learn about the recently revised Department of Homeland Security Traveler Redress Inquiry Program (DHS TRIP) and to urge that the procedures be further reviewed and revised to prevent the deprivation of the due process rights of individuals seeking redress. We understand that DHS is faced with the difficult task of balancing the rights of those who wish to travel with the safety of travelers. At the same time, the liberty interests of United States citizens and permanent residents on the No Fly List must also be protected. The No Fly List and DHS TRIP implicate several 5th Amendment due process rights concerns. Courts have recognized that the right to travel is a constitutionally protected liberty interest that cannot be deprived without the due process of law. Courts have also noted that an individual’s status on the No Fly List can effectively bar them from traveling internationally. In addition to seeking responses to the inquiries below, we write to express our concern regarding the due process afforded to those on the No Fly List. We have heard too many stories of individuals wrongly listed or mistaken for others listed, which can have a large impact on affected families as well. We understand the interest of DHS in making sure that redress procedures comport with national security concerns. And, we also recognize that DHS TRIP has been revised in response to court challenges. However, there still are constitutional questions and there remains room for improvement in these procedures to protect the due process rights of individuals seeking redress. While pre-deprivation hearings may raise different challenges in the case of No Fly List redress procedures, those seeking redress after the fact should be afforded full due process, including meaningful notice of the reasons for placement on the list and the opportunity to be heard in front a neutral party. Please provide responses to the inquiries below with as much detail as possible, to help us better understand DHS TRIP and its effectiveness, especially under the newly revised procedure. 1. What is the average number of days between an individual’s redress request through DHS TRIP and the issuance of an official response regarding the individual’s status under the most recently revised DHS TRIP procedures? In 2014, TSA stated the average time for resolving a case was 75 days, and 17 days for aviation cases. 2. How many redress applications were submitted in FY2015? How many cases are pending? 3. Have any cases been reopened and reevaluated since the revised redress procedures were implemented? 4. Please provide detailed information on the TSA Cleared List and how it is used. Will individuals who were added to this list prior to the latest revisions of the redress procedures be notified that they are on the TSA Cleared List? 5. How many individuals have been placed on the TSA Cleared List in FY2015? 6. After the TSA Administrator’s determination (either removing the individual from the No Fly list, maintaining him or her on the list, or remanding the case to TSC for further information) is communicated to the petitioner, what options are presented to the petitioner if they are not satisfied with the final decision as it relates to 49 U.S.C. § 46110? And how are these options communicated to the petitioner? 7. In its April 2015 Notice Regarding Revisions to DHS TRIP Procedure in Latif v. Holder, the Department of Justice stated that the government would be “closely monitoring the initial implementation of these newly revised procedures on an interagency basis, and will, as circumstances warrant, consider whether further revisions to the process are necessary”. What interagency reviews, if any, of the implementation of the new process has taken place? Have any further revisions been recommended by the Department of Justice or any other agency? Thank you for your continued work securing and defending our homeland, and we look forward to working with you to improve the DHS TRIP redress process for all while balancing our national security interests. Sincerely,
09.28.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement after the House of Representatives approved an amendment to the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) that would provide $170 million in federal aid to Flint. The House and Senate will now reconcile their differing versions of the legislation. “Tonight was a first step toward finally bringing hope to the people of Flint. We will not stop working until this measure crosses the finish line and Flint families receive the resources they need and deserve. Members of the Michigan delegation – Democrats and Republicans – are committed to ensuring Congress upholds its commitment to the families of Flint.”
09.23.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today released the following statement regarding the Republican Continuing Resolution that fails to include aid for the Flint water crisis. “It is unconscionable that the Republican plan to fund the government through December fails to include a dime for the people of Flint. The 9,000 children impacted by this crisis and their families have been living a nightmare for more than two years and are still unable to turn on their taps without worrying about lead exposure. “The people of Flint need real help, not just nice words, and I urge my colleagues to work with us to include aid for Flint families in the continuing resolution. Americans have always stepped up to help one another in times of great need, and the people of Flint deserve the same.”
09.22.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today introduced the Promoting Transparency in Trade Act, a bill that would bring more transparency to trade negotiations by requiring the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) to publically release the text of ongoing trade negotiations and ensure the position of USTR Transparency Officer is free from conflicts of interest. Dingell introduced the legislation in response to the debate over the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP), a proposed trade deal the administration negotiated largely in secret without input from Congress or the public. “The debate over the TPP has made one thing abundantly clear: the American people are tired of trade deals that benefit other countries at the expense of the American worker,” said Dingell. “Our country’s trade negotiations are neither transparent nor accessible, and do not reflect input from Congress or the working men and women we represent. What is most outrageous is that the role of USTR Transparency Officer is currently held by their General Counsel – hardly an unbiased person who would be working in the interests of transparency. This legislation would ensure that future trade negotiations are open to public debate so the American people can see for themselves whether these agreements are good for them and their families, and so Congress can carry out our constitutional responsibility to ensure trade deals promote economic growth and keep jobs in this country.” The bill would require that USTR appoint a Transparency Officer who does not have, or appear to have, any conflict of interest in ensuring the transparency of the activities of the Office of the Trade Representative. It would also require the USTR to publish text after each round of trade deal negotiations on a public website so all interested parties can see the process unfolding step by step. In addition to Dingell, the legislation is co-sponsored by Reps. Rick Nolan (MN-08), Mark Pocan (WI-02), Tim Ryan (OH-13), and Jan Schakowsky (IL-09). It is also supported by labor and advocacy groups including the AFL-CIO, UAW, OpenTheGovernment.org, Union of Concerned Scientists, Public Citizen, and Electronic Frontier Foundation.
09.22.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) invites 9-12th grade students from Michigan’s 12th District, families, high school counselors, veterans and servicemembers to attend Military Service Academy information sessions on Sunday, September 25th and Sunday, October 2nd. The events will provide an opportunity for students, parents and counselors to meet with representatives from the service academies, hear from Congresswoman Dingell and learn more about the nomination process through her office. “Our nation’s service academies offer young people the opportunity to receive a world-class education while serving our country,” said Dingell. “I’m proud our office can help the impressive young men and women who want to attend one of the nation’s prestigious academies.” For more information, please call Dingell’s Dearborn office at 313-278-2936. Sunday, September 25, 2016 WHAT: Dingell Hosts Military Service Academy Information Session WHO: Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) Representatives from the U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Military Academy and U.S. Naval Academy WHEN: 1 p.m., Sunday, September 25, 2016 WHERE: Taylor Sportsplex, Room C, 13333 Telegraph Rd., Taylor Sunday, October 2, 2016 WHAT: Dingell Hosts Military Service Academy Information Session WHO: Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) Representatives from the U.S. Air Force Academy and U.S. Naval Academy WHEN: 1 p.m., Sunday, October 2, 2016 WHERE: Washtenaw Community College, Morris Lawrence Bldg., Room ML 101, 4800 E. Huron River Dr., Ann Arbor
09.20.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today released the following statement after the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) issued Federal policy for safe testing and deployment of automated vehicles. “Automated vehicles are creating a paradigm shift in the auto industry due to their potential to save lives and reduce congestion. Nearly 40,000 American motorists were killed on our roads last year, the largest annual increase in 50 years. Facilitating autonomous vehicle testing and deployment may help us reduce this number. NHTSA’s Federal Automated Vehicles Policy helps establish a baseline for a national framework for the deployment of automated vehicles. “As a co-chair of the House Smart Transportation Caucus, I look forward to reviewing the guidance and working with my colleagues in Congress to ensure the United States continues to be the worldwide leader in developing policies that promote safety and innovation, both of which are necessary to the future of mobility. Importantly, Michigan’s American Center for Mobility will have a clear role to play here, and I look forward to working with Secretary Foxx and NHTSA to define that moving forward.”
09.20.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12), ranking member of the House Natural Resources Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, today sent a letter to subcommittee chairman Louie Gohmert (TX-01) requesting an oversight hearing to examine the economic and ecological impacts of Asian carp on the Great Lakes. Asian carp is an invasive species that threatens the health and vitality of the Great Lakes recreational fishing economy, as well as their ecosystems and native fish populations. “The Great Lakes recreational and commercial fishing industries generate $4.5 billion annually in economic activity. With 250 species of fish, they are a prime destination for recreational anglers. However, Asian carp pose serious threats to the stability of the fishing industries should they become established in the Great Lakes,” Dingell writes in the letter. “Even more alarming, Asian carp are rapidly advancing toward the Great Lakes. A bighead carp was captured in Lake Calumet, only 6 miles away from Lake Michigan. Asian carp are virtually impossible to eliminate once they have established themselves in a new habitat. They are fast breeders and a single female can lay over a million eggs a year. The Great Lakes have suitable breeding conditions and contain no natural predators, which makes for ideal ecosystems for the Asian carp,” she continues. “Oversight on this issue is overdue. An improved understanding of the economic and ecological impacts of the Asian carp on the Great Lakes will help us better address these issues and guide us in our efforts to protect the region from this invasive species.” The letter can be read in full here and below. September 20, 2016 The Honorable Louie Gohmert Chairman, Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations House Natural Resources Committee U.S. House of Representatives 1324 Longworth House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 Dear Chairman Gohmert: This letter is to request an oversight hearing of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations to examine the economic and ecological impacts of Asian carp—bighead, black, grass, and silver—on the Great Lakes. Asian carp is an invasive species that threatens the health and vitality of the Great Lakes recreational fishing economy, as well their ecosystems and native fish populations. The Great Lakes recreational and commercial fishing industries generate $4.5 billion annually in economic activity. With 250 species of fish, they are a prime destination for recreational anglers. However, Asian carp pose serious threats to the stability of the fishing industries should they become established in the Great Lakes. Asian carp are non-native fish to North America with no natural predators in our waters. They are known for their insatiable appetites consuming up to 20 percent of their body weight per day and reaching weights of up to 110 pounds. One of the staples of the Asian carp diet is plankton, which is the foundation of the aquatic food chain. Most native great lakes fish feed on plankton during their early life stages; Asian carp can out-compete them for food. This can lead to reduced native fish populations, some of which serve as prey to sportfish, and severely affect the region’s fishing economies. Even more alarming, Asian carp are rapidly advancing toward the Great Lakes. A bighead carp was captured in Lake Calumet, only 6 miles away from Lake Michigan. Asian carp are virtually impossible to eliminate once they have established themselves in a new habitat. They are fast breeders and a single female can lay over a million eggs a year. The Great Lakes have suitable breeding conditions and contain no natural predators, which makes for ideal ecosystems for the Asian carp. Asian carp present a considerable danger to people, boats, and other property. When startled and scared by boat engines, Silver carp can jump as high 10 feet out of the water. With nearly 1 million boaters operating their vessels on the Great Lakes, they are at great risk for bodily injury or equipment damage. Should Asian carp enter the Great Lakes, it could have a significant and adverse impact on the region’s recreational fishing economy. Oversight on this issue is overdue. An improved understanding of the economic and ecological impacts of the Asian carp on the Great Lakes will help us better address these issues and guide us in our efforts to protect the region from this invasive species. Should you have any questions, please contact Vic Edgerton of the House Natural Resources Committee Democratic staff at 202-225-6065. Sincerely, Debbie Dingell Ranking Member Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations
09.14.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Over the weekend, U.S. Representatives Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and Darrell Issa (CA-49) traveled to the Marine Corps Recruit Depot, Parris Island to meet with Marine Corps officials regarding the implementation of changes to recruit training safeguards following the recent completion of three command-level investigations into the death of Raheel Siddiqui of Taylor, MI — a constituent of Congresswoman Dingell’s — and other allegations of mistreatment at Parris Island. Siddiqui was a 20-year-old Marine Recruit who died during training camp following recurrent physical and verbal abuse by instructors. (More information here) Dingell and Issa met with the new Commanding General at Parris Island, Brigadier General Austin E. Renforth, and other senior leaders to converse about new measures that have been implemented to prevent tragedies like this from occurring again in the future. Following the visit, Congresswoman Dingell had the following to say: “The death of Private Siddiqui – a class valedictorian who was loved by all who knew him – has left his family and our entire community searching for answers. While this investigation has brought disturbing information to light, it is now critical that the proceedings move forward in a thorough and just manner, and that the Marine Corps holds those responsible accountable while ensuring this never happens again. “This weekend’s visit was an opportunity to see firsthand the changes that are being implemented to achieve this goal. After meeting with General Renforth and talking with other key members of leadership, drill instructors, and recruits, it is clear that the Marine Corps is treating this issue with the seriousness it deserves. General Renforth has assured me this is personal to him and he is committed to working towards real change to help prevent a tragedy like this from happening in the future. As evidence of this, he has implemented immediate changes in both personnel and policies – including the mandatory suspension of personnel who are being investigated for abuse or hazing, adding more officers to oversee the recruit training process, and implementing other cultural changes. This is just a first step and continued monitoring in the weeks and months ahead will be necessary to ensure these policies have their intended effect. “My heart aches for Private Siddiqui’s family. No matter what we do we can never bring him back, but we must ensure something good comes of this. The men and women who follow in his footsteps must receive fair treatment on their way to becoming our nation’s finest fighters.” Congressman Issa added, “We owe it to our men and women who are training for service, and those that go on to serve, to provide appropriate mental and physical care for them to carry out their duties. The reports provided by the Marine Corp regarding the death of Recruit Siddiqui’s death are nothing short of heartbreaking. “This weekend’s visit to Parris Island followed my recent appointment to view recruit training and School of Infantry training on Camp Pendleton. Our youth deserve the training and oversight to fulfill the missions of the Marine Corps in the safest manner possible. My conversations with Marine leadership in both locations provide assurance that action has been taken to ensure such a tragedy cannot occur in the future. “Beyond training procedures and safeguards, we must do more to prevent active-duty personnel suicide overall. Statistics released earlier this year show the number of service members committing suicide remains unacceptably high while reserve suicide rates have increased. I remain committed to assisting our Marines and all of our services in working to provide all the support they need.” Dingell has been in constant communication with the Marine Corps since Private Siddiqui’s death on March 18, 2016. She wrote General Neller seeking further clarification on the circumstances surrounding Siddiqui’s death, and consistently pressed for additional information about the investigation into drill instructors and senior leadership at Parris Island. The Marine Corps’ response to Dingell’s most recent letter can be viewed here. Upon completion, the Marine Corps investigation revealed deviations from established policies and procedures for Marine Corps recruit training. Twenty Recruit Training Regiment personnel have been identified for possible military justice or administrative action.
09.08.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today released the following statement after the U.S. Marine Corps completed three command-level investigations into the circumstances surrounding the death of her constituent Private Raheel Siddiqui of Taylor, Michigan and other allegations of abuse and mistreatment at Marine Corps Recruit Depot, Parris Island. Today, Marine Corps Commandant General Robert B. Neller met with Dingell in her office to inform her that upon completion of the investigation, twenty Recruit Training Regiment personnel have been identified for possible military justice or administrative action. The investigations revealed deviations from established policies and procedures for Marine Corps recruit training. “Today’s announcement by the Marine Corps is a first step in ensuring the family of Private Raheel Siddiqui receives the answers they deserve and that the Marine Corps is addressing the serious issues that led to this tragedy. I am grateful for the seriousness with which the Marine Corps has carried out this investigation to date, but it is critical that the process continue to be conducted in a manner that is thorough and ensures all those who are responsible are held accountable. “Private Siddiqui was a son, brother and class valedictorian who believed this country represented freedom and opportunity. As a young Muslim man, he truly understood the value of freedom of religion, and all he wanted was to defend the ideals our nation holds dear. This weekend, I will visit Marine Corps Recruit Depot, Parris Island to see firsthand the recruit training process, meet with the new leadership and learn about the changes that are being implemented to ensure a tragedy like this never happens again. “This is the very least the Siddiqui family – and the thousands of families across our country whose children serve in uniform – deserve.” Dingell has been in constant communication with the Marine Corps since Private Siddiqui’s death on March 18, 2016. She wrote General Neller seeking further clarification on the circumstances surrounding Siddiqui’s death, and consistently pressed for additional information about the investigation into drill instructors and senior leadership at Parris Island.
09.07.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today announced that the Arab Community Center for Economic & Social Services (ACCESS) in Dearborn will receive a $555,711 Navigator grant from the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS). The Navigator program supports community organizations which provide local in-person assistance to help consumers browse, shop, and enroll in health insurance through the Marketplace ahead of open enrollment for 2017, which runs from November 1, 2016 to January 31, 2017. “ACCESS has played a vital role in helping families in our community enroll in quality health care plans that fit their needs and their budget,” said Dingell. “As open enrollment approaches, this grant will allow ACCESS to reach more members of the community so those who have questions or need help enrolling can get the insurance coverage they need. Thanks to ACCESS, residents should know that assistance is available to help them make the best coverage decisions for themselves and their families.” “We are immensely proud of ACCESS’ work enrolling thousands of families in health care coverage, as well as connecting them to healthcare service providers,” said Hassan Jaber, ACCESS CEO. “We are grateful for this grant, which will allow us to continue doing this important work. We’re also incredibly grateful for Rep. Dingell’s support of our organization, and her steadfast commitment to ensuring access to quality healthcare for all Americans.” ACCESS has served as an Affordable Care Act (ACA) Navigator grantee since 2013. Navigators are trained individuals and organizations who help consumers, small businesses, and employees as they look for Health coverage options and financial assistance through the Marketplace.
09.02.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today released the following statement in advance of Labor Day, which is Monday, September 5, 2016. “Labor Day is a special day in Michigan. It is a holiday to remember the hard-fought victories that labor earned for all of us in the workplace, which we must never take for granted. “Too many of us take for granted a 40 hour work week, safe workplaces, pensions, healthcare, classrooms that aren’t overcrowded, and safe nurse to patient ratios – all of these battles have been fought and won by labor unions, and those of us who benefit from these gains need to remember and appreciate that. “This Labor Day, as many continue to try to destroy the impact of labor unions, we need to support working men and women across this country. We need policies that grow our economy and keep good-paying jobs in this country; we need to raise the minimum wage and strengthen collective bargaining; and most importantly, we need to all work together to stop bad trade deals that pose an urgent threat to jobs, wages and the worker protections that labor fought so hard for. The Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) is likely to come before Congress this year, and I am committed to working with my colleagues to ensure this unfair trade agreement – which would ship manufacturing jobs overseas to countries that mistreat their workers, manipulate their currencies and break the rules to gain an unfair advantage – never sees the light of day. “I will march with my brothers and sisters in labor in downtown Detroit this year, as I have for decades. I will renew my promise to fight for working families in Congress every single day because an investment in labor is an investment in our families, communities and our future. On this Labor Day, we thank them for what they continue to do for us all.”
09.01.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today announced that Wayne Metropolitan Community Action Agency in Wyandotte and Southwest Counseling Solutions in Dearborn/Dearborn Heights will receive grants totaling $2,209,325 from the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) as part of an ongoing initiative to prevent homelessness among Veterans and their families. The grants are awarded through the Supportive Services for Veteran Families (SSVF) program. “The number of Veterans who served our country who are homeless is deeply troubling,” said Dingell. “This funding will support local groups that work day in and day out to help Veterans and their families transition into permanent housing and access the support services they need. There are a multitude of issues contributing to homelessness among Veterans and this is an investment in supporting those who served us. Many are suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder or other mental health issues and need a helping hand to transition back into the community." The goal of the SSVF Program is to promote housing stability to eligible very low-income Veteran families residing in or transitioning to permanent housing. Grantees also provide eligible Veteran families with outreach, case management, and assistance obtaining VA and other benefits, including health care, child care, legal services, and transportation. Southwest Counseling Solutions will receive $1,565,832 through the SSVF program and the Wayne Metropolitan Community Action Agency will receive $643,493. The SSVF program served more than 157,000 participants in fiscal year 2015 and is on track to exceed that number in fiscal year 2016. As a result of these and other efforts, Veteran homelessness is down 47 percent since the launch of the Federal Strategic Plan to Prevent and End Homelessness in 2010. Also since 2010, more than 360,000 Veterans and their family members have been permanently housed, rapidly re-housed, or prevented from falling into homelessness by VA’s homelessness programs and targeted housing vouchers provided by the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
08.30.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today announced that the University of Michigan will receive three awards totaling $8,062,199 from the National Science Foundation (NSF) to conduct research in a variety of academic areas. “The University of Michigan is leading the way in groundbreaking research, and I’m pleased they are receiving these significant awards,” said Dingell. “This NSF funding will go towards advancements in STEM education, manufacturing systems and food production that will help solve some of our most pressing challenges and ensure we continue to lead in a 21st century global economy.” Projects receiving funding are below. • $2,699,839 award for a project entitled, “Organizing to Learn Practice: Teacher Learning in Classroom-Focused Professional Development.” • $2,362,392 award for a project entitled, “Collaborative Research: Software Defined Control for Smart Manufacturing Systems.” • $2,999,968 award for a project entitled, “Advancing Technologies and Improving Communication of Urine-Derived Fertilizers for Food Production within a Risk-Based Framework.” The National Science Foundation supports research, innovation, and discovery at America’s colleges and universities by distributing federal grants. On average, NSF awards about 11,000 new grants each year to individuals or small research groups after a rigorous review process.
08.29.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today announced that the Ann Arbor Township Fire Department will receive a $187,941 regional grant through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program. The funding will be used to replace firehoses for 11 fire departments in Washtenaw and western Wayne counties. “It is critical that our local firefighters have the tools they need to do their jobs safely and effectively,” said Dingell. “This funding will provide fire departments throughout the region with much-needed equipment to protect our communities.” “On behalf of the fire chiefs and firefighters of Washtenaw and Wayne counties, I would like to thank FEMA for providing these funds, which will allow us to purchase over 56,000 feet of firehose for the county fire departments to ensure the safety of residents,” said Ann Arbor Township Fire Chief Brian Thurston. The grant will be distributed by Ann Arbor Township to Ypsilanti Township, the City of Ypsilanti, Van Buren Township, Superior Township, Salem Township, Manchester Township, Chelsea area, Belleville City, Sumpter Township, and Augusta Township. The AFG program awards grants directly to fire departments and EMS organizations that are unaffiliated with a hospital to enhance their response capabilities and to more effectively protect the health and safety of the public and emergency response personnel with respect to fire and all other hazards.
08.26.2016	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Representatives Candice Miller (MI-10) and Debbie Dingell (MI-12) issued the following statement after the Great Lakes and St. Lawrence Cities Initiative requested a hearing to examine the merits of Waukesha, Wisconsin’s water diversion request, which was approved by the Great Lakes Compact Council in June: “We applaud the Great Lakes and St. Lawrence Cities Initiative’s request to hold a hearing, where they can closely examine the merits of Waukesha’s request to divert over eight million gallons of water from Lake Michigan per day. We agree with the local leaders’ assertion that Waukesha, in fact, did not exhaust all other options, and, therefore, its request did not meet the criteria required to divert water from the Great Lakes and should not have been approved. It is our hope that the Compact Council will grant this request and seriously consider the ramifications of this approval allowing for the diversion of the precious, finite resources our magnificent lakes provide.” The Great Lakes and St. Lawrence Cities Initiative is a binational coalition of over 120 U.S. and Canadian mayors and local officials working to advance the protection and restoration of the Great Lakes and St. Lawrence River.
08.25.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today announced that the Dearborn and Trenton Fire Departments will receive funding for fire prevention and safety through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program. “Our local firefighters and first responders are on the front lines of keeping our communities safe,” said Dingell. “These grants will help provide the resources they need to continue to protect our families through prevention.” Dearborn will receive a $168,077 grant to install smoke alarms for houses from Dearborn to Melvindale. The Dearborn Fire Department has already installed 2,000 smoke alarms for residents in the region and they plan to double that number with this funding. Fire Chief Joe Murray said, “The smoke alarm installation program will undoubtedly save lives from Dearborn to Melvindale and this grant will ensure this program will continue to move forward and protect our citizens.” Trenton will receive a $16,310 grant to install high-quality, maintenance-free, lithium ion smoke detectors in low-income neighborhoods. “The City of Trenton and the Fire Department are very appreciative of the support for our efforts to promote fire prevention for the citizens of Trenton,” said Trenton Fire Chief Dean Creech. The AFG program awards grants directly to fire departments and EMS organizations that are unaffiliated with a hospital to enhance their response capabilities and to more effectively protect the health and safety of the public and emergency response personnel with respect to fire and all other hazards.
08.25.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today released the following statement in celebration of the National Park Service’s Centennial. “Today marks 100 years since President Woodrow Wilson signed into law the act creating the National Park Service with the goal of protecting our natural wonders for the enjoyment of people all across this country. A century later, the National Park Service continues to protect and maintain the open spaces where we think and reflect; the historic sites where we learn and draw inspiration; and the lands, waters and forests where we hunt, fish, hike and enjoy the outdoors. “We are fortunate in Michigan to be home to many of these national treasures – from Sleeping Bear Dunes National Lakeshore and MotorCities National Heritage Area to River Raisin National Battlefield Park – all of which are vital to our way of life and the economic vitality of our local communities. As we celebrate the 100th Anniversary of the National Park Service, we must recommit to fighting for programs like the Land and Water Conservation Fund, or LWCF, which has played an important role in supporting our national parks, as well as the Centennial Act, which Congress must approve to make sure the NPS is on solid footing for the next 100 years. “As President Franklin Delano Roosevelt once observed, ‘There is nothing so American as our national parks.’ It is our obligation to protect these iconic and historic places so that future generations can enjoy the best of America.”
08.22.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today announced that SkySpecs of Ann Arbor will receive a Small Business Voucher from the Department of Energy’s Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy. SkySpecs deploys autonomous drones for inspections of wind turbines. Working with Sandia National Labs, the project will focus on the validation of blade damage data to assist with the development of machine learning algorithms for automated identification and classification. “SkySpecs is leading the way in the development of new technology that will improve renewable energy reliability,” said Dingell. “This collaboration with Sandia National Labs will help America transition toward cleaner forms of energy and help reduce greenhouse gases. Companies within southeastern Michigan continue to innovate and improve technologies that will ensure America is a leader in renewable energy.” SkySpecs CEO Danny Ellis said, "SkySpecs is thrilled to be working with the researchers at Sandia National Laboratories to advance the inspection capability of automated drones. Sandia's cutting-edge inspection techniques combined with our technology will dramatically improve wind turbine inspections. The SBV program allows SkySpecs to access Sandia's expertise and ultimately produce a more powerful solution because of our collaboration. Our team is looking very forward to the opportunity." The Energy Department’s Small Business Vouchers are a collaborative, national effort that provide $20 million for U.S. companies to help improve industry awareness of national laboratory capabilities and provide small and mid-size businesses access to the resources available within the national laboratory system.
08.16.2016	DEARBORN, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today applauded Ford Motor Company’s announcement that it will deploy a Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE) Level 4 capable vehicle, which will be available to ride-hailing and ride-sharing fleets by 2021. “Today’s announcement from Ford is further proof that the American auto industry is staying at the forefront of global innovation,” said Dingell. “Ford and Michigan companies are leading the way in the development of this revolutionary technology that has the potential to improve safety and efficiency, and shape the future of mobility in this country for decades to come.”
08.12.2016	DEARBORN, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today sent a letter to Kevin Elsenheimer, executive director of the Michigan State Housing Development Authority (MSHDA), urging the agency to immediately relocate residents of the Towne Centre Place housing complex in Ypsilanti while repairs are being made to the building’s only two elevators, which have not been in reliable and consistent working condition for the last six months. The 11-story complex is home to 170 disabled and elderly residents, who are facing serious hardship and dangerous conditions while the elevators are in disrepair. MSHDA holds the loan to the building and is the state agency responsible for overseeing its operations. “The lack of reliable elevator service in an 11-story building has become both a safety and a quality of life issue for the elderly and disabled residents of the building,” Dingell wrote. “Without access to an elevator, tenants are not able to move freely from the building and medical services cannot be performed. In the event of a medical emergency, first-responders have to climb the stairs to and from the person seeking medical help.” A number of occupants are recipients of Section 8 housing assistance, the federal government’s major program to assist very low-income families, the elderly and the disabled to afford decent, safe and sanitary housing in the private market. MSHDA administers these funds for the State of Michigan. “It would appear that the current living condition is not decent, safe or sanitary,” continued Dingell. “It is my understanding that repairs to the elevators are ongoing, and it is my hope that they be completed as soon as possible. In the meantime, in addition to hoping you are protecting the citizens who have no other place to live, I ask that the landlord be encouraged to temporarily relocate residents of Towne Centre Place who have faced serious hardship because of the disrepair of the elevators. Such a step will ensure that the safety and mobility of residents is provided for while repairs are taking place.” The full letter can be read here and below. August 12, 2016 Mr. Kevin Elsenheimer Executive Director Michigan State Housing Development Authority 735 E. Michigan Ave P.O. Box 30044 Lansing, Michigan 48909 Dear Director Elsenheimer: This letter is concerning the unsafe living conditions at Towne Centre Place, located at 401 West Michigan Ave, Ypsilanti, MI, that has resulted in great hardship and at times dangerous conditions to my constituents who live there. This is an 11-story complex which is home to 170 disabled and elderly residents. There are two elevators in the building to transport residents to their floors and both have not been in reliable and consistent working condition for the last six months, often with both being out of service at the same time. There has been a long history of complaints for years about this facility but it has now reached crisis proportions. Multiple individuals have witnessed first-hand and confirmed the lack of elevator service with residents and local officials. The operating condition is causing significant hardship for the residents on a daily basis, but of greatest concern is this could jeopardize the health of residents of the complex because medical personnel are not able to reach patients. In addition, it has been reported that Meals on Wheels volunteers have had to climb 11 flights of stairs to provide meals for residents, and caretakers have not been able to access patients resulting in seniors going weeks without a bath. These reports are deeply concerning and could result in tragedy if unaddressed. It is my understanding that MSHDA holds the loan to the building and is the state agency responsible for overseeing the operations of the building. The lack of reliable elevator service in an 11-story building has become both a safety and a quality of life issue for the elderly and disabled residents of the building. Without access to an elevator, tenants are not able to move freely from the building and medical services cannot be performed. In the event of a medical emergency, first-responders have to climb the stairs to and from the person seeking medical help. My staff has visited the building and has confirmed that both elevators have been out of service multiple times. We have also received complaints related to poor maintenance of the facility and infestations of cockroaches and bedbugs. It has been reported that furniture has been disposed of and residents are sleeping on the floor. Besides a humane concern for those living there, it is my understanding that a number of occupants are recipients of Section 8 housing assistance, which as you know is the federal government’s major program to assist very low-income families, the elderly, and the disabled to afford decent, safe and sanitary housing in the private market. MSHDA administers these funds for the State of Michigan. It would appear that the current living condition is not decent, safe or sanitary. It is my understanding that repairs to the elevators are ongoing, and it is my hope that they be completed as soon as possible. In the meantime, in addition to hoping you are protecting the citizens who have no other place to live, I ask that the landlord be encouraged to temporarily relocate residents of Towne Centre Place who have faced serious hardship because of the disrepair of the elevators. Such a step will ensure that the safety and mobility of residents is provided for while repairs are taking place. Thank for your continued attention to this matter. Please do not hesitate to contact me directly if you have any questions or need any more information. Sincerely, Debbie Dingell Member of Congress CC: Julian Castro, Secretary, U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development Rick Snyder, Governor, State of Michigan Steve Arwood, Director, Michigan Economic Development Corporation Amanda Edmonds, Mayor, City of Ypsilanti David Rutledge, State Representative, 54th District of Michigan
08.11.2016	DEARBORN, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today announced that Ford Motor Company will receive funding from the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) as part of an initiative to advance fuel cell and hydrogen technologies. DOE is awarding approximately $6 million in total funding to Ford Motor Company in Dearborn and Los Alamos National Laboratory in New Mexico for projects that will support research and development advancements that will reduce our nation’s dependence on foreign oil and cut harmful carbon emissions. “Ford is helping lead the nation in the research and development of next-generation technologies that will make our cars cleaner, safer and more fuel efficient,” said Dingell. “Today’s announcement will help accelerate American innovation in clean energy technologies, and keep Michigan and the U.S. at the forefront of developing the cars and trucks of the future.” Ford Motor Company will use the funding to develop a uniquely American fuel cell catalyst production process that will result in lower cost, higher purity, more active and durable catalysts. According to the Energy Department’s 2014 Fuel Cell Technologies Market Report, the hydrogen and fuel cell industry grew by almost $1 billion in 2014, reaching $2.2 billion in sales–up from $1.3 billion in 2013. In addition, more than 50,000 fuel cells were shipped worldwide in 2014. The projects announced today will further develop and advance these clean energy technologies.
08.09.2016	ANN ARBOR, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today joined Ducks Unlimited and local conservation leaders at the Washtenaw Food Hub to tour a wetland restoration project and call for the reauthorization of the Great Lakes Fish and Wildlife Restoration Act. Dingell, a member of the House Natural Resources Committee, introduced the bipartisan Great Lakes Fish and Wildlife Restoration Act of 2016 in July with Reps. Candice Miller (MI-10) and Darin LaHood (IL-18) to reauthorize and improve the program and support fish and wildlife and their habitats throughout the Great Lakes basin. The program encourages conservation projects like the one at the Washtenaw Food Hub, which has restored 96 acres of formerly heavily-farmed land back to a natural state. “Michigan has some of the most beautiful natural resources in the world, and preserving and protecting them for the next generation to enjoy is an obligation we all share,” said Dingell. “Today we saw what can happen when public and private groups come together to preserve and restore wildlife habitat, which also supports economic development, creates jobs and benefits our environment. That’s why the Great Lakes Fish and Wildlife Restoration Act is so important. The Great Lakes represent 20% of the world’s freshwater supply and support a $7 billion fishery. We simply can’t afford not to reauthorize this program and protect our resources and the wildlife that call it home.” “The Washtenaw Food Hub is a terrific example of how the Great Lakes Fish and Wildlife Restoration Act addresses conservation needs here in Michigan,” said Gildo Tori, director of public policy for Ducks Unlimited’s Great Lakes/Atlantic Region. “Our conservation project here will not only help waterfowl and wildlife, but also help a small business meet its sustainability goals.” In addition to Tori, Dingell was joined on the tour by Kim Bayer of the Washtenaw Food Hub; Jason Hill, manager of conservation programs at Ducks Unlimited; and Marc Gaden of the Great Lakes Fishery Commission. The Great Lakes Fish and Wildlife Restoration Act of 2016 authorizes the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service to provide assistance to local groups for cooperative conservation, restoration, and management of fish and wildlife and their habitats. It also makes it easier for local groups to come up with matching funds, which means more conservation and restoration projects throughout Michigan that improve water quality, protect species habitat, and improve access for outdoor recreation. For more information about the bill, please click here. Since 1998, the Great Lakes Fish and Wildlife Restoration Act has provided more than $24.4 million dollars in federal funding to 157 research and restoration projects. Since these projects require a 25% local match, this equals more than $36 million worth of benefits to Great Lakes fish, wildlife and the habitats they depend on. The program was last reauthorized in 2006.
08.03.2016	DEARBORN, MI – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today announced that the University of Michigan will receive a $2,565,643 research grant from the National Science Foundation (NSF) to create tools to capture data transformations from statistical analysis packages that will reduce the costs of analyzing large amounts of data. “The University of Michigan is leading the way on research related to metadata and the analytic opportunities contained within it,” said Dingell. “This NSF funding will help create tools to capture data transformations from statistical analysis packages, create efficiencies, and reduce the cost of data collection.” This $2,565,643 NSF award will focus on two research communities (social and behavioral sciences and earth observation sciences) with strong metadata standards and heavy reliance on statistical analysis software, but the approach is generalizable to other scientific domains. The National Science Foundation supports research, innovation, and discovery at America’s colleges and universities by distributing federal grants. On average, NSF awards about 11,000 new grants each year to individuals or small research groups after a rigorous review process.
08.01.2016	BELLEVILLE, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today honored two Original “Rosie the Riveters” at the Yankee Air Museum in Belleville, Michigan for their service during World War II. Mrs. Phyllis Roullier, 97, of Belleville and Mrs. Mary Jezowski-Serge, 94, of Allen Park are among the trailblazing women who stepped up 70 years ago to fill the factory positions traditionally held by men, producing munitions and war supplies that were critical to an Allied victory. “Today was an important opportunity to honor two of the inspiring women who stepped up during one of the most turbulent times in our nation’s history, and helped redefine the role of women in the workplace,” said Dingell. “The Original Rosies’ bravery and resolve made victory in World War II possible, and their patriotism and hard work will forever remain part of the American story. Mary and Phyllis embody the best of American values and we will always be thankful for their strength, grace and gusto.” Dingell was joined at the event by Kevin Walsh, executive director of the Yankee Air Museum, and local officials including Ypsilanti Township Supervisor Brenda Stumbo and Superior Township Treasurer Brenda McKinney. The ceremony took place as part of the communities’ ongoing effort to honor local Rosies for their contributions during WWII. Phyllis Roullier of Belleville began working at the Willow Run Bomber Plant in 1941 and was tasked with various duties including assembling hydraulics and dimpling airplanes. Phyllis and the women at Willow Run produced more aircraft every month than Imperial Japan did in a year, which earned Willow Run and southeast Michigan the proud title of America’s “Arsenal of Democracy.” Mary Jezowski-Serge of Allen Park worked at both the Cadillac Plant and Lincoln Plant in Detroit building planes, tanks, and other armaments for soldiers fighting abroad during the war. She recounts the thrill that came with climbing on top of the tanks to do her welding and was eventually honored for her hard work during the war with a plaque at the Yankee Air Museum. Dingell will continue to honor Original Rosies throughout Michigan’s 12th District. In March, as part of Women’s History Month, Dingell and Congresswoman Candice Miller (MI-10) welcomed the first Honor Flight of Original Rosie the Riveters to Washington, D.C. Dingell also joined more than 2,000 women, including 43 Original Rosies, at the former Willow Run Bomber Plant in October 2015 to take back the Guinness World Record for the largest gathering of Rosie the Riveters since WWII.
07.29.2016	MONROE, MI – U.S. Representatives Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and Tim Walberg (MI-07) today joined local officials in announcing a land donation from the Port of Monroe to the National Park Service and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service to expand the River Raisin National Battlefield Park and the Detroit River International Wildlife Refuge. The donation will expand the Battlefield by 33 acres and the Refuge by 35 acres, linking the two sites together and connecting them with other areas in the community. “Today marks a milestone for two critical projects that highlight both the rich historical heritage of our great state and our shared commitment to conservation,” said Dingell. “This new land will help improve the Battlefield and ensure that more people learn about this critical piece of American history. It will also expand the Detroit River International Wildlife Refuge for all those in our community who want to enjoy the outdoors while preserving the diverse wildlife who call the refuge home. Thank you to Dave Brose and the entire staff at the Port of Monroe for their generosity and leadership, and to everyone who has worked so hard to ensure these sites can be enjoyed for generations to come.” “We are blessed with a rich display of our nation’s history and natural habitat right here in our backyard,” said Walberg. “Thanks to public-private partnerships, the vision of Congressman John Dingell before me, and the hard work of many others, expansion of the River Raisin National Battlefield Park and the Detroit River International Wildlife Refuge will further preserve and help more people enjoy this treasured land. I applaud the City of Monroe and the Port of Monroe for their continued efforts to enhance the community and the destinations it has to offer.” The Representatives were joined at the announcement by Chairman Dave Brose of the Port of Monroe; Monroe Mayor Robert Clark; John Hartig, Refuge Manager at the Detroit International Wildlife Refuge; Scott Bentley, Superintendent of the River Raisin National Battlefield Park; and National Park Service staff.
07.28.2016	DEARBORN, MI – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today announced that the University of Michigan will receive a $1,250,000 research grant from the National Science Foundation (NSF) to improve performance of engines that burn fuel in combustion processes and power the electrical grid, while reducing greenhouse emissions. “The University of Michigan is helping to lead the way in the research and development of new technology that will drive the auto industry forward,” said Dingell. “This NSF funding will go toward the development of technology that will enhance the operation and reliability of the electrical grid, power autonomous vehicles, and reduce emissions. This kind of research, located near the hub of the auto industry, is critical to keeping America competitive in the world marketplace.” This $1,250,000 NSF award will use adaptive control to improve the performance of engines that burn fuel in combustion processes. These engines are used worldwide to generate energy for the electrical grid. The research will help address the challenging problem of burning fuel more efficiently and reducing pollution while considering changes in the demand for electricity. The project will involve students from multiple engineering disciplines and will enhance the diversity of future professionals working in this area of technology. The National Science Foundation supports research, innovation, and discovery at America’s colleges and universities by distributing federal grants. On average, NSF awards about 11,000 new grants each year to individuals or small research groups after a rigorous review process.
07.27.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today announced that the Superior Township Fire Department will receive a $840,910 grant through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program. The grant will be used to purchase a new Ladder truck for the department. “Our firefighters and first responders keep our communities safe day in and day out, and it is critical that they have the most up-to-date equipment to carry out this mission,” said Dingell. “This grant will ensure Superior Township can respond to a myriad of emergencies with the best tools available. Their success securing this important funding speaks to the quality of their application and the good work being done at the Superior Township Fire Department as a whole.” Superior Township Fire Chief Vic Chevrette said, “We appreciate Congresswoman Dingell’s support of our application, which will allow us to purchase a new, and much-needed Ladder truck to meet the needs of our community and keep families safe. The Ladder truck will provide response to the region under the Automatic Mutual Aid Pac with the City of Ypsilanti, Charter Township of Ypsilanti and Ann Arbor Township. I would also like to mention a special thanks to Fire Fighter Christopher Wiggins, who was instrumental in writing the grant. We at the Superior Township Fire Department, greatly appreciate the support of the Taxpayers for making this grant possible.” The AFG program awards grants directly to fire departments and EMS organizations that are unaffiliated with a hospital to enhance their response capabilities and to more effectively protect the health and safety of the public and emergency response personnel with respect to fire and all other hazards.
07.21.2016	YPSILANTI, MI – Responding to the recent tragedies in Baton Rouge, Dallas and St. Paul, Washtenaw County Sheriff Jerry Clayton and Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) hosted a community Unity Meeting and Town Hall tonight at Eastern Michigan University to discuss policing and community interactions. The goal was to bring together community members of all walks of life for a discussion about race, poverty and community policing, and how to address the anger, frustration and fear felt by many across the country. “Tonight's meeting was an honest, respectful and at times intense discussion. We talked about how we can start to heal as a country, build trust in our communities, and stop the violence moving forward,” said Dingell. “We need to understand the impact national perceptions have on the vast majority of police officers who want to make our communities safer. But we also have to understand what it means to be Black or Muslim or Native American in this country. We need more open and real conversations about not only race, but the growing unemployment and income disparity impacting all working men and women. I thank Sheriff Clayton and all who helped begin this important conversation. We can move forward toward positive change, but only through tolerance and open discussions like this one.” The discussion was moderated by David Fair of WEMU Radio. In addition to Rep. Dingell and Sheriff Clayton, panelists included Mark Fancher, Staff Attorney for the Racial Justice Project of the ACLU of Michigan; Myles McGuire, an organizer with Black Lives Matter; and Washtenaw County Prosecutor Brian Mackie. Attendees included students, law enforcement officers, elected officials, Black Lives Matter organizers and faith and community leaders. The first part of the event focused on unity and remembering those who have been lost. The second part of the event, the Town Hall, provided a respectful venue for all members of the community to be heard, ask questions and raise concerns, and discuss how we can work together to stop the violence going forward.
07.21.2016	DEARBORN, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) will host Congress in Your Community at the Ann Arbor Farm Market on Saturday, July 23. Congress in Your Community provides an opportunity for members of the community to conveniently discuss issues and concerns with Dingell and her staff and take advantage of services provided through her office. Constituents across the 12th District are welcome to attend and no appointment is necessary. For questions or additional information, please call Dingell’s Dearborn office at 313-278-2936. Additional events will be announced throughout the summer. Saturday, July 23, 2016 WHAT: Dingell to host Congress in Your Community in Ann Arbor WHEN: 8:30-9:30 a.m., Saturday, July 23 WHERE: Ann Arbor Farm Market, in front of the Kerrytown Shops, 407 N 5th Ave, Ann Arbor, MI
07.19.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Following the devastating events of the past two weeks in Baton Rouge, Dallas and St. Paul, Washtenaw County Sheriff Jerry Clayton and Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) will host a community Unity Meeting and Town Hall discussion on Thursday, July 21st at the EMU Student Center. The Unity Session will take place from 6-7 p.m. and feature various speakers from the community. From 7-9 p.m., there will be a Town Hall discussion on policing and community interactions that will be moderated by David Fair of WEMU radio. The goal is to bring together community members from all walks of life for an honest discussion about race, poverty and community policing and how to address the anger, frustration and fear felt by many. Participants will include students, law enforcement, elected officials, Black Lives Matter organizers and faith and community leaders. The first part of the event will focus on unity and remembering those who have been lost. The second part of the event, the Town Hall, will provide a respectful venue for all members of the community to be heard, ask questions and raise concerns, and discuss how we can work together to stop the violence going forward. The purpose of the dialogue is to build understanding and trust, which are the basis for solutions. Members of the community who wish to attend can find more information and RSVP here. All are welcome. Thursday, July 21, 2016 WHAT: Sheriff Clayton and Congresswoman Dingell host community Unity Meeting and Town Hall discussion WHO: Town Hall: Rep. Debbie Dingell Washtenaw County Sheriff Jerry Clayton Mark Fancher, Staff Attorney for the Racial Justice Project, ACLU of Michigan Myles McGuire, Black Lives Matter organizer Brian Mackie, Washtenaw County Prosecutor Unity Session: Pastor Joseph Cousins, Head of the Ministerial Alliance David Rutledge, State Representative Jason Robinson, Pastor of Reach Church Brenda Stumbo, Ypsilanti Township Supervisor Ben Edmondson, YCS Superintendent Felicia Brabec, Chair, Board of Commissioners Brian Marl, Mayor of Saline Greg Dill, Washtenaw County Administrator Roderick Green, Pastor & Superior Township Trustee WHEN: Thursday, July 21; The Unity Session will be held from 6-7 p.m., followed by the Town Hall discussion from 7-9 p.m. WHERE: EMU Student Center, 900 Oakwood St, Ypsilanti, MI 48197, Ballroom A and B *PARKING is free. Please park in the Student Center parking lot. If that lot is full you can park in the A-1 lot on the south side of the Towers or in the Hoyt lot which is just past A-1
07.18.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement today in advance of attending the White House Ceremony to award Lieutenant Colonel (Ret.) Charles S. Kettles, U.S. Army, of Ypsilanti the Medal of Honor. President Obama will award LTC Kettles the nation’s highest military honor following a five-year grassroots effort in coordination with the Kettles family, the Ypsilanti Rotary Veterans History Project, and the offices of former U.S. Congressman John Dingell and Congresswoman Debbie Dingell to ensure then-Major Kettles’ acts of valor were properly honored. “Almost five decades ago, the brave actions of LTC Charles Kettles saved the lives of 44 of his own in the jungles of Vietnam,” said Congresswoman Dingell. “Today, after years of hard work from his friends and family, his local community, those he served with, and the Veterans History Project, he will finally receive the recognition he deserves—the Medal of Honor from the President of the United States. LTC Kettles’ actions above and beyond the call of duty and his commitment to his fellow servicemembers represent the highest values of the United States military. It was a true honor to help ensure LTC Kettles is properly honored as one of our nation’s bravest heroes.” The awarding of today’s Medal of Honor is the result of Members of Congress on both sides of the aisle recognizing the accomplishments of LTC Charles Kettles. Responding to a request from the Ypsilanti Rotary Veterans History Project to review LTC Kettles’ actions during the Vietnam War, former Congressman John Dingell wrote the United States Army asking for LTC Kettles to be considered for the United States of America’s highest military honor. In reviewing the facts, Secretary of Defense Ash Carter responded in August 2015 and agreed that then-Major Kettles’ actions merited the Medal of Honor, but because the statute of limitations had passed, Congressional action was required. In November 2015, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell introduced H.R. 3995, which would waive the time limitation and allow the President to award LTC Kettles the Medal of Honor. In an effort to ensure the legislation was passed as quickly as possible, Dingell approached House Appropriations Committee Chairman Hal Rogers (KY) and Ranking Member Nita Lowey (NY), who agreed to include it in the 2016 government funding bill, which was signed into law on December 18, 2015. “I am grateful for the bipartisan support of Chairman Rogers and Ranking Member Lowey and members of Michigan’s Congressional Delegation who supported our efforts to gain this long-overdue recognition for LTC Kettles,” said Congresswoman Dingell. On May 15, 1967, after an airborne infantry unit was ambushed in the Song Tra Cau riverbed in Vietnam by the North Vietnamese Army, then-Major Kettles led three flights into extremely hostile territory to deliver supplies, reinforcements, and evacuate the wounded and trapped. During the final flight, shortly after leaving the landing zone, then-Major Kettles was informed that eight soldiers remained on the ground. Without hesitating, he returned on his own, without regard for his own safety and with no other support, to rescue the remaining men. All totaled on that day, his actions saved the lives of 40 soldiers and 4 of his own crew members from the 176th Aviation Company after their helicopter was destroyed. For his voluntary action above and beyond the call of duty, then-Major Kettles was awarded the Distinguished Service Cross in 1968. In 2012, a local campaign was launched by William Vollano, a coordinator with the Veterans History Project, and the Kettles family to upgrade his award to the Medal of Honor. In reviewing the facts, Secretary of Defense Ash Carter agreed that then-Major Kettles’ actions merited the nation’s highest military honor.
07.13.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representatives Debbie Dingell (MI-12), Candice Miller (MI-10), and Darin LaHood (IL-18) today introduced bipartisan legislation to support fish and wildlife in the Great Lakes. The Great Lakes Fish and Wildlife Restoration Act of 2016 authorizes the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) to work with states and other agencies to develop and execute proposals to conserve, restore and manage fish and wildlife populations, and their habitats. Since 1998, the Great Lakes Fish and Wildlife Restoration Act has provided federal funding to 148 research and restoration projects in the Great Lakes Basin – from restoring habitat for the Kirtland Warbler, an endangered species, to detecting the successful reproduction of Lake Trout in southern Michigan. The program was last reauthorized in 2006. For high-quality video of the bill introduction, please click here. “As someone who grew up on the St. Clair River, protecting the Great Lakes and its diverse species is personal to me and to so many who call Michigan home,” said Rep. Debbie Dingell. “The Great Lakes are a way of life – providing fresh water, fish and wildlife habitat, and countless opportunities for recreation, while supporting our state’s economy and hundreds of thousands of jobs. We’ve seen what happens when we all work together to protect our Great Lakes, and I am proud to introduce this bipartisan legislation with my colleagues Congresswoman Miller and Congressman LaHood to conserve fish and wildlife, combat the threat of invasive species, and protect the Great Lakes for generations to come.” “Throughout my tenure, one of my principal advocacies has been protecting and preserving our magnificent Great Lakes and the diverse wildlife that call them home,” said Rep. Candice Miller. “For those of us who grew up along the shores of the Great Lakes, we understand that they are more than just a recreational joy, they are a way of life – the way we put food on the table and pay the mortgage. Supporting billions of dollars of recreational and commercial industries each year, as well as 20% of the world’s surface fresh water supply, the vitality of our Great Lakes is critical to the vivacity of our region and the world. The reauthorization and update of the Great Lakes Fish and Wildlife Restoration Act will continue to provide the resources the Fish and Wildlife Service needs to protect our precious Great Lakes.” “As a father who regularly enjoys the outdoors with my three sons, I am pleased to introduce this bipartisan legislation with my colleagues, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell and Congresswoman Candice Miller. Reauthorizing and updating the Great Lakes Fish and Wildlife Restoration Act will increase economic opportunities for our fishermen and improve conservation efforts,” stated Rep. Darin LaHood. “As a member of the House Natural Resources Committee and the Congressional Sportsmen’s Caucus, I look forward to continuing to be a champion in Congress for the proper maintenance of our Great Lakes.” “The Great Lakes region in some areas has lost 90 percent of its historical wetlands,” said David Brakhage, Ducks Unlimited Great Lakes/Atlantic Regional director. “The Great Lakes Fish and Wildlife Restoration Act is an invaluable resource in Ducks Unlimited’s efforts to protect and restore wetlands, which provides habitat for hundreds of wildlife species and clean drinking and recreational water for millions of people.” “The Alliance for the Great Lakes supports the Great Lakes Fish and Wildlife Restoration Act of 2016 which is critical to sustainable fish and wildlife management in our region,” said Molly M. Flanagan, Vice President for Policy at the Alliance for the Great Lakes. “We thank Congresswomen Dingell and Miller and Congressman LaHood for their leadership in sponsoring this legislation and for recognizing the importance of a healthy Great Lakes ecosystem to Great Lakes communities.” “The Great Lakes Fish and Wildlife Restoration Act has, since 1990, supported essential efforts to restore fish and wildlife populations in the Great Lakes basin,” said Robert Lambe, executive secretary of the binational Great Lakes Fishery Commission. “The law also has led to habitat improvement, better law enforcement, and stronger connections between those who manage fisheries and those who manage wildlife. It is truly an ecosystem-based approach. The Great Lakes Fishery Commission is a solid supporter of this bill and commends Congresswoman Debbie Dingell, Congresswoman Candice Miller, and Congressman Darin LaHood for their leadership and support for the $7 billion Great Lakes fishery.” "Funding for conservation is critical to Michigan's fish and wildlife resources, and the economies they support,” said Daniel Eichinger, Executive Director of Michigan United Conservation Clubs. “We thank Congresswoman Miller, Congresswoman Dingell, and Congressman LaHood for providing bipartisan leadership for our Great Lakes." The Great Lakes Fish and Wildlife Restoration Act has also been endorsed by the American Sportfishing Association, Trout Unlimited, the Western Reserve Land Conservancy, Pheasants Forever/Quail Forever, and the Ohio Conservation Federation. The bill would authorize $6 million annually through 2021 to implement restoration projects and FWS activities related to the Great Lakes region, and would require a 25% non-federal match of total project cost. For more information, please click here.
07.11.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today announced that the City of Ypsilanti Fire Department has received a $56,000 regional grant from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program. The grant will be used to provide fire investigation training for 20 staff members from regional fire departments, including Ypsilanti City, Ypsilanti Township, Van Buren Township, Superior Township, Ann Arbor Township, Salem Township, Chelsea, and Augusta Township. “It is critical that local firefighters and first responders receive the most up-to-date training to keep our families and neighborhoods safe,” said Dingell. “This grant will help ensure firefighters throughout the region have the tools they need to respond effectively and efficiently and continue to protect our communities in times of need.” Chief Max Anthouard said, “We appreciate Congresswoman Dingell for her commitment to ensuring that our fire departments and firefighters have the training they need to keep our communities safe.” The AFG program awards grants directly to fire departments and EMS organizations that are unaffiliated with a hospital to enhance their response capabilities and to more effectively protect the health and safety of the public and emergency response personnel with respect to fire and all other hazards.
07.07.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representatives Don Young (AK) and Debbie Dingell (MI) today introduced H.R. 5650, the bipartisan Recovering America’s Wildlife Act of 2016, to help promote and enhance our nation’s conservation efforts and ensure the long-term health of fish and wildlife throughout the country. The legislation, based on a recommendation from a panel of conservation and business leaders, would dedicate $1.3 billion annually in existing revenue from oil and gas royalties to the Wildlife Conservation Restoration Program. The funding would provide states with new critically needed financial resources to effectively implement State Wildlife Action Plans to conserve 12,000 species in greatest need of conservation while providing the public with more access to open spaces. “As a strong supporter of conservation and sportsmen alike, I’m proud to take the lead on an important discussion regarding fish and wildlife conservation across the country,” said Congressman Don Young. “While we’ve seen many great successes in management and conservation projects in the past, this legislation takes a unique approach to allow states to make responsible management decisions at home. As someone who proudly supports the management of fish and game for all Americans – for sportsmen, subsistence purposes, and for future generations – I believe this legislation is a responsible first step in developing a path forward.” “It has been proven over the decades that incredible gains in species conservation have been made with dedicated sources of funding,” Congresswoman Dingell said. “The Recovering America’s Wildlife Act builds off the successes of previous efforts including Pittman-Robertson, Dingell-Johnson, and the Land and Water Conservation Fund by giving state fish and wildlife agencies additional resources they need to proactively manage at-risk wildlife species. I am proud to introduce this legislation with my Republican colleague from Alaska, Mr. Young. We both love the outdoors and know we must work hard to protect our natural resources. To some we may seem the odd couple but together we believe we can get something done that will help bring conservation into the 21st Century and complement the other successful programs that are currently in place.” “America’s hunters, anglers, recreational shooters, and boaters have been the primary funders of state-based conservation efforts to this day,” said Congressional Sportsmen’s Foundation President Jeff Crane. “This recommendation simply uses funding for conservation from other sectors that use our natural resources.” “We have a once in a generation opportunity to save thousands of at-risk wildlife species by investing in proactive, collaborative conservation. By modernizing how we fund conservation of the full diversity of wildlife, we will bolster our natural resources, strengthen our outdoor recreation economy, reduce regulatory uncertainty, improve public health, and bolster community resilience,” said Collin O’Mara, president and chief executive officer of the National Wildlife Federation. "We thank Congressman Young and Congresswoman Dingell for their exceptional leadership on the Recovering America's Wildlife Act." “Hunters, anglers, recreational shooters and motorized boaters, through fees and licenses, have been the backbone of funding the conservation of America’s fish and wildlife. Over the years these original conservationists have greatly enhanced the State’s ability to perform science-based management of fish and wildlife species throughout the country,” said Dave Chanda, President of the Association of Fish and Wildlife Agencies and Director of New Jersey Division of Fish and Wildlife. “Today we find ourselves at a critical crossroad and impending fish and wildlife crisis that could alter our children and grandchildren’s opportunities to enjoy these resources. If we want to secure the future of all of America’s fish and wildlife resources, a fundamental enhancement in how we finance conservation is essential. We believe the right path is to begin investing now in a 21st century vision for fish and wildlife.” The Blue Ribbon Panel on Sustaining America’s Diverse Fish and Wildlife Resources, a group of national business and conservation leaders co-chaired by Bass Pro Shops founder John L. Morris and former Wyoming governor Dave Freudenthal, convened in 2015 to recommend a new mechanism to sustainably fund fish and wildlife conservation. In March 2016, the Panel recommended that a $1.3 billion trust fund be created using existing fees from energy and mineral development on federal lands and water to support implementation of State Wildlife Action Plans in every state, territory and the District of Columbia. To read more, please click here. Without a change in the way we finance fish and wildlife conservation, the list of federally threatened and endangered species is expected to grow from nearly 1,600 species today to thousands more in the future. The new dedicated funding created by the Recovering America’s Wildlife Act is aimed at preventing wildlife from becoming endangered to ensure the long-term health of all fish and wildlife that provide countless hours of outdoor enjoyment for the nation’s citizens.
07.01.2016	John Dingell is turning 90 on Friday, July 8th! Help us celebrate by recording a short, 30-second video wishing him a happy birthday and sharing your favorite story or memory about his time in Congress. The videos will be compiled and played for Mr. Dingell on his birthday, and Mrs. Dingell will be sharing sneak peeks on Twitter throughout the week (@RepDebDingell). To participate, follow the instructions below: • Record a short, 30-second video on your phone or computer (.mov or .mp4 files preferred) • Submit your video via email to JDDBirthday@gmail.com • Be sure to include your Twitter handle in the email! Please contact Hannah Smith in Rep. Debbie Dingell’s office with any questions at hannah.smith@mail.house.gov or 202-225-4071.
06.30.2016	DEARBORN, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) will host Congress in Your Community in Taylor ahead of Independence Day weekend. Dingell will be at the Taylor Farmer’s Market on Friday, July 1 from 1-2 p.m. She will also participate in the “Healthy Taylor Walk with an Official” at the market beginning at 12 p.m. Congress in Your Community provides an opportunity for members of the community to conveniently discuss issues and concerns with Dingell and her staff and take advantage of services provided through her office. Constituents across the 12th District are welcome to attend and no appointment is necessary. For questions or additional information, please call Dingell’s Dearborn office at 313-278-2936. Additional events will be announced throughout the summer.Friday, July 1, 2016 WHAT: Dingell to host Congress in Your Community in Taylor WHEN: 1-2 p.m., Friday, July 1 WHERE: Taylor Farmer’s Market, Sheridan Center Open Air Pavilion in Heritage Park, Taylor, MI
06.30.2016	ANN ARBOR, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today sent a letter to U.S. Marine Corps Commandant General Robert B. Neller requesting further information on the death of her constituent Private Raheel Siddiqui of Taylor, Michigan and recent press reports regarding an investigation into 15 drill instructors of the 3rd Recruit Training Battalion at Parris Island. Dingell has been in constant communication with the Marine Corps regarding the multiple ongoing investigations into Private Siddiqui’s death. While she is awaiting the results of those investigations, she is requesting further clarification about the misconduct of personnel at Parris Island who are alleged to have violated Marine Corps orders related to hazing, physical abuse, failure of supervision, and assault. “This letter is concerning recent allegations against personnel at Marine Corps Recruit Depot Parris Island and my continuing concern about the death of my constituent, U.S. Marine Corps recruit Private Raheel Siddiqui,” said Dingell. “I understand there are multiple ongoing investigations into this incident and deeply respect the importance of the objectivity of those findings and am supportive of your efforts to have an unbiased investigation. We have a responsibility to our nation to support a strong military and I also have a moral responsibility to a family who lost a son and a brother. This young man was a class valedictorian who believed this country represented freedom and opportunity and wanted to defend those ideals.” Dingell asked a number of questions of General Neller, including the following: “It is important that we recruit a military that reflects the diversity of our nation, and we also must ensure that recruits receive effective training so they are prepared to serve our country in combat. But reports in the Wall Street Journal of a drill instructor putting a Muslim recruit inside a clothes dryer is deeply disturbing. How do we ensure that all recruits are treated equally and receive the proper training to be effective at their jobs as soldiers without resorting to tough and discriminatory tactics that could put someone’s life at risk?” The letter can be read here and below. June 30, 2016 General Robert B. Neller Commandant U.S. Marine Corps 3000 Marine Corps, Pentagon Washington, DC 20350-3000 Dear General Neller: This letter is concerning recent allegations against personnel at Marine Corps Recruit Depot Parris Island and my continuing concern about the death of my constituent, U.S. Marine Corps recruit Private Raheel Siddiqui. I understand there are multiple ongoing investigations into this incident and deeply respect the importance of the objectivity of those findings and am supportive of your efforts to have an unbiased investigation. We have a responsibility to our nation to support a strong military and I also have a moral responsibility to a family who lost a son and a brother. This young man was a class valedictorian who believed this country represented freedom and opportunity and wanted to defend those ideals. The press reports in the last news cycle about misconduct at Parris Island are deeply troubling. It is my understanding that 15 drill instructors of the 3rd Recruit Training Battalion are alleged to have violated Marine Corps orders related to hazing, physical abuse, failure of supervision, and assault. These allegations deserve to be fully investigated with appropriate discipline if necessary. While I understand these investigations may be ongoing, I respectfully request answers to the following questions: 1. Have specific charges been brought against these 15 drill instructors? If so, please provide a detailed accounting of each charge. If not, please explain why the allegations against these 15 individuals have not resulted in formal charges. 2. It is my understanding that a drill instructor had access Marine Corps recruits while he was the subject of an investigation. What are the allegations against the drill instructor and how was he permitted to continue working with recruits while under investigation? 3. What new policies or corrective actions has the Marine Corps implemented following this incident to ensure that people who are under investigation do not maintain contact with recruits? 4. It is important that we recruit a military that reflects the diversity of our nation, and we also must ensure that recruits receive effective training so they are prepared to serve our country in combat. But reports in the Wall Street Journal of a drill instructor putting a Muslim recruit inside a clothes dryer is deeply disturbing. How do we ensure that all recruits are treated equally and receive the proper training to be effective at their jobs as soldiers without resorting to tough and discriminatory tactics that could put someone’s life at risk? 5. Do Marine Corps drill instructors receive sensitivity training for how to deal with recruits from minority communities? Please provide a detailed explanation of existing training policies for drill instructors. 6. Following this incident, does the Marine Corps plan to change policies and procedures related to training of drill instructors to ensure that hazing and physical abuse does not occur in the future? 7. What is the maximum penalty for a drill instructor who violates Marine Corps policies related to hazing or physical abuse? 8. Did any of the 15 drill instructors who are currently under investigation have any contact with Raheel Siddiqui? Thank you for your continued attention to this important matter. Please do not hesitate to contact me directly if you have any questions or need any more information. Sincerely, Debbie Dingell Member of Congress
06.29.2016	BERKLEY, MI – Michigan Democrats from the U.S. House of Representatives today continued to call for votes on bipartisan commonsense gun safety legislation. In addition to the Representatives, the event was attended by mayors, police chiefs, members of the clergy, Michigan State representatives, as well as a number of organizations and community members committed to ending the epidemic of gun violence. The discussion focused on two bills, “No Fly No Buy,” which would prevent people on the terrorist watch list from purchasing guns, and another measure which would keep guns away from dangerous individuals by expanding criminal background checks to close online purchase and gun show loopholes. This event was a part of the larger National Day of Action, where over 30 events were held in communities across the nation. Rep. Conyers said: “Whether mass shootings or killings on our streets, there are too many tragedies and too many families shattered by gun violence. I am pleased to join my Congressional colleagues today in a critical discussion about gun violence prevention, to engage with our community about what is happening on this issue and what more we can do here and in Washington to make us all safer.” Rep. Dingell said: "As we continue to have this discussion, it is imperative that we protect Second Amendment rights while working to stop the violence that is happening in too many of our communities. Today we came together as Michiganders, as people of faith, as survivors of abuse, as members of law enforcement, as mothers, fathers, brothers, and sisters to say let us take some simple steps to keep guns out of the hands of those who should not have them - terrorists, domestic abusers and those with serious mental illness. We can make our communities safer while respecting the rights of responsible, law-abiding citizens. We can and should do both." Rep. Kildee said: “Michiganders have made it clear that they want Congress to do its job and act to prevent suspected terrorists from getting deadly weapons. For the vast majority of Americans, this is a no-brainer – if you are too dangerous to fly on a plane, you are too dangerous to own a gun. A majority of Americans, including the majority of law-abiding gun owners, also agree that we must close dangerous loopholes that allow criminals to buy a weapon at a gun show or online without a background check. Congress can – and must – act on these commonsense gun safety measures to protect the American people.” Rep. Lawrence said: “This is a call to action! National Day of Action gives us the opportunity to continue the conversation here in Michigan. To hear from our communities regarding their frustration with gun violence in our communities. Our historic, sit-in on the Floor of the House of Representatives last week has energized our constituencies. They are tired of moments of silence, they are ready for action and Congress must step up and lead against the devastation of gun violence in this country.” Rep. Levin said: “We’ve come to a turning point – our voices are united in telling Republicans moments of silence cannot replace the need for times of action. In a democracy there is a need for leadership from above and leadership from the grassroots. We are here to show that the public cares and Congress must lead in taking action.” Former Arizona Rep. Gabrielle Giffords, gun violence victim and co-founder of the gun violence prevention organization Americans for Responsible Solutions said: “Just one week after the historic sit-in on the House floor, tomorrow leaders in Congress will hold yet another historic event to urge our elected officials in the U.S. House of Representatives to hold a vote on bipartisan legislation that protects the rights of law-abiding Americans, keeps guns out of the wrong hands, and saves lives. I want to thank Congressman Conyers, Congresswoman Dingell, Congressman Kildee, Congresswoman Lawrence, and Congressman Levin for helping lead the fight against our nation’s gun violence crisis. Speaking is difficult for me. But I haven't been silenced. And neither should the American people. Their Representatives must vote to make our communities safer.”
06.28.2016	DEARBORN, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement after Volkswagen agreed to pay up to $10 billion to U.S. vehicle owners and $4.7 billion in environmental reparations after cheating emissions tests. “Consumers deserve confidence in knowing that the vehicles they buy meet the environmental and safety standards promised by the automaker. Volkswagen lied to the government, defrauded their customers, and cheated their competitors who were playing by the rules. Today’s settlement is a positive step towards holding Volkswagen accountable and sends a clear message that violating the laws that protect public health and the environment will not be tolerated.”
06.28.2016	DEARBORN, MI – In recognition of Alzheimer’s and Brain Awareness Month, U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12), in partnership with the Alzheimer’s Association Greater Michigan Chapter and Michigan Great Lakes Chapter, today convened a roundtable discussion with patients, caregivers and key advocates in the fight to end Alzheimer’s. The discussion focused on policy and community solutions that are needed to better support patients and caregivers and confront the growing challenge of Alzheimer’s disease, which now impacts one in nine older Americans and one-third of Americans over the age of 85. “We had a real and honest conversation today about the enormous challenges facing patients and caregivers of those diagnosed with Alzheimer's,” said Dingell. “Too many face terrifying obstacles – from the cost of care to the struggle to find caregivers and trained staff at facilities, to the lack of research for discovering cures for this awful disease. As our population ages, the absence of cohesive policies is a serious problem and is only going to grow worse. Continuing on this same path is unacceptable and we need to demand Congress start to address Alzheimer's and other long-term care issues.” “More than 180,000 people in Michigan are facing Alzheimer's disease and more than 500,000 additional people are care giving for their loved ones with the disease,” said Jennifer D. Lepard, President and CEO of the Alzheimer's Association Greater Michigan Chapter. “It is vitally important that the community continue to discuss Alzheimer's as our population ages and more people face the associated challenges. Congresswoman Dingell is a strong advocate of seeking solutions to these challenges we face as a community and we thank her convening this discussion today.” One of Dingell’s top priorities in Congress is bringing the country’s long-term care system into the 21st century, and Alzheimer’s research and treatment is a major piece of the puzzle. Alzheimer’s patients require more hands-on care than other patients, with studies showing that 43 percent of Alzheimer’s patients require care for at least 4 years, while only 33 percent of patients with other conditions require care for this long of a time. Dingell is working to improve the long-term care system in the U.S. so patients can get treatment in a setting they prefer from a qualified, trained professional. Dingell is also a cosponsor of H.R. 1559, The HOPE for Alzheimer’s Act, which would provide Medicare coverage for planning services following a diagnosis of dementia, and H.R. 5073, the EUREKA Act, which would create incentives for finding treatments to prevent, alleviate or cure Alzheimer’s.
06.27.2016	DEARBORN, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement on the Supreme Court’s ruling in Voisine v. United States, which upheld laws that prevent domestic abusers from accessing guns. “Having spoken in a very personal way about this issue last week, today's decision by the Supreme Court is a victory for those who have been impacted by guns and domestic abuse. It should be commonsense that someone convicted of domestic violence should not have access to a gun. “This is one important step to help ensure victims and their families do not have to live in fear, but many don't understand that we must do more to protect survivors of dating violence and stalking. That is why Rep. Robert Dold and I introduced H.R. 3130, the bipartisan Zero Tolerance for Domestic Abusers Act. This bill would close loopholes that allow abusers and stalkers to access guns, and it would be another significant victory that would protect women and families and save lives.”
06.27.2016	DEARBORN, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement on the Supreme Court’s ruling in Whole Woman’s Health v. Hellerstedt. “Today’s Supreme Court decision reaffirms every woman’s constitutional right to respect, compassion, and dignity in making her own health decisions. It is an important victory for women in Texas and across the country, who would have been forced to drive hundreds of miles and wait weeks for an appointment to simply get the care they need. Now we must ensure that every woman – no matter where they live or how much they earn – can get comprehensive, safe, quality health care when they need it. A woman’s health decisions are her own, in consultation with her family, her doctor, and her faith, and that right should not be undermined.”
06.21.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, President Obama announced that he will award Lieutenant Colonel (Ret.) Charles S. Kettles, U.S. Army, of Ypsilanti the Medal of Honor for conspicuous gallantry. The announcement is the culmination of a five-year grassroots effort in coordination with the Kettles family, the Ypsilanti Rotary Veterans History Project, and the offices of former U.S. Congressman John Dingell and U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (M-12) to ensure then-Major Kettles’ acts of valor were properly honored. Lieutenant Colonel (Ret.) Kettles will receive the Medal of Honor at a ceremony at the White House on July 18, 2016. “LTC Charlie Kettles went above and beyond the call of duty during one of the darkest times in our nation’s history to save the lives of his fellow servicemembers,” said Rep. Debbie Dingell. “In the shadow of the Vietnam War, too many men and women were not celebrated, recognized or treated with respect when they came home. These individuals fought for our country and put their lives on the line, and because LTC Kettles turned his helicopter around and braved enemy ammunition and shell fire, he saved the lives of 44 men. We need to tell the good stories of the Vietnam War and recognize the true patriots who refused to give up or leave a man behind. Charlie Kettles is one such patriot, and I am pleased that nearly 50 years later, with the award of the Medal of Honor, his contributions to our country will be properly honored.” The White House noted, “Lieutenant Colonel (Ret.) Kettles will receive the Medal of Honor for his actions while serving as a Flight Commander assigned to 176th Aviation Company (Airmobile) (Light), 14th Combat Aviation Battalion, Americal Division. Then-Major Kettles distinguished himself in combat operations near Duc Pho, Republic of Vietnam, on May 15, 1967. He led a platoon of UH-1Ds to provide support to the 1st Brigade, 101st Airborne Division, during an ambush by a battalion-sized enemy force. After leading several trips to the hot landing zone and evacuating the wounded, he returned, without additional aerial support, to rescue a squad-sized element of stranded soldiers pinned down by enemy fire. He is credited with saving the lives of 40 soldiers and four of his own crew members.” Then-Major Kettles was awarded the Distinguished Service Cross in 1968. In 2012, a local campaign was launched by William Vollano, a coordinator with the Veterans History Project, and the Kettles family to upgrade his award to the Medal of Honor. A number of men from his company and the 101st Airborne Division sent letters validating his heroic actions, and former Congressman John Dingell sent multiple letters to the United States Army asking for LTC Kettles to be considered for the United States of America’s highest military honor. In reviewing the facts, Secretary of Defense Ash Carter responded in August 2015 and agreed that then-Major Kettles’ actions merited the Medal of Honor, but because the statute of limitations had passed, Congressional action was required. In November 2015, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell introduced H.R. 3995, which would waive the time limitation and allow the President to award LTC Kettles the Medal of Honor. It was included in the fiscal year 2016 government funding bill which was signed into law on December 18, 2015 (P.L. 114-113).
06.21.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Representatives Candice Miller (MI-10) and Debbie Dingell (MI-12) issued the following joint statement on the Great Lakes Compact Council’s vote to approve Waukesha, Wisconsin’s application to divert 8.2 million gallons of water per day from Lake Michigan: “We strongly disagree with today’s vote by the Great Lakes Compact Council approving Waukesha’s request to divert over 8 million gallons of water from Lake Michigan per day. There is nothing more instinctively wrong to Michiganians than to allow for the diversion of the precious, finite resource our magnificent lakes provide. “Waukesha has known about elevated radium levels in their water supply for decades and has failed to act. Now, taking the easy way out, they are asking to syphon water from Lake Michigan. The fact is, they do not meet the criteria required to divert water from the Great Lakes and have not exhausted all alternatives as required by the Compact. Even an independent analysis conducted by a Wisconsin-based coalition of environmental groups – the Wisconsin Compact Implementation Coalition – concluded that Waukesha can, in fact, meet its own water needs by treating existing groundwater wells for radium just as neighboring communities currently do. “While involved parties who supported this approval claim that we can monitor and enforce the treatment and return of diverted water, the truth is we can’t as evidenced by the inability to accurately monitor and limit the billions of gallons of water being diverted through the Chicago Sanitary and Ship Canal, even despite a consent decree issued by the Supreme Court. Since that decree was issued, subsequent inquires have uncovered diversion levels exceeding the agreed upon amount by nearly 15% as well as insufficiently slow accounting practices, seriously calling into question promises that we can enforce the return of water diverted by Waukesha. “Protecting and preserving our Great Lakes – one of Mother Nature’s most magnificent treasures – is absolutely critical to preserving our Great Lakes, which is why we have been adamant this application be denied. Today’s decision was a critical first test for the Compact since it was ratified by Congress in 2008. In approving this request, it has failed, setting a precedent that contradicts the Compact’s mission and undermines the water management progress made by the Compact.”
06.13.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement in response to Donald Trump’s remarks in which he reiterated his proposed ban on Muslim immigration. “Donald Trump’s hateful speech today is further evidence that he is seeking to divide this country at a time when we must be united against evil. In the days following September 11, it was the worst of times, but also a time that a Republican President pulled us together to ensure that we were united in defending what America stands for. Freedom of religion, freedom of speech, and being a melting pot for multiple cultural and national backgrounds are fundamental principles on which this nation was founded. We knew what it meant to be American and stood together proudly so no community would be targeted. Muslim members of my Michigan community are as American as any I know. This weekend I spent significant time with the family of a young man of Muslim faith who lost his life in the Marines and only wanted to serve the country he loved. Donald Trump’s proposed ban on Muslim immigration betrays American values and is dangerous. Those who don’t learn from history are doomed to repeat it.”
06.13.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representatives Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and Raúl M. Grijalva (AZ-03) – ranking members of the House Natural Resources Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee and the full committee, respectively – and Representative Matt Cartwright (PA-17) led eight colleagues in sending a letter to Interior Secretary Sally Jewell urging immediate action to prevent major coal companies from further offloading billions of dollars of self-bonded reclamation obligations onto taxpayers. The letter comes after Peabody Energy, the country’s top coal producer, became the latest major American coal company to file for bankruptcy. Like Arch Coal, Inc. and Alpha Natural Resources before it, Peabody chose to meet some of its reclamation obligations under the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act (SMCRA) by self-bonding instead of buying corporate surety bonds or collateral bonds. Because self-bonding requirements fail to consistently ensure all reclamation costs are covered, taxpayers have to pay the bill. “There has never been a more critical time to ensure taxpayers are not left on the hook for billions in cleanup costs if a big coal company goes out of business,” said Dingell. “These common sense proposals are steps the administration can take right now to reduce taxpayer exposure as we seek a long-term solution to this problem.” “The number of recent bankruptcies has proven once and for all that a mere promise made by the biggest coal mining companies to clean up their environmental disasters is not dependable,” Grijalva said. “Until this ruse can be ended, the Department of Interior can take specific steps to minimize the amount taxpayers have to shoulder, starting today.” “Northeastern Pennsylvania has experienced a disastrous legacy of abandoned mines impacting our health and the environment,” Cartwright said. “With recent bankruptcies it's clear that the coal industry will not fulfill their obligations to reclaim their mines. Thus we must institute common sense steps to ensure that our lands are protected.” “The decision to allow a coal mining company to self-bond and the methods used to support those decisions involve substantial discretion on the part of the state regulators,” the Representatives wrote. “As the agency that provides oversight of the states, the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement (OSMRE) can prohibit the practice of self-bonding. We encourage you to pursue that option. As interim steps to help provide a more level playing field between states and coal companies, and dramatically reduce taxpayer exposure by providing clear guidance” in the following six areas: 1. Companies that recently declared bankruptcy should not qualify for self-bonding 2. State regulators should look beyond the minimum required examination of financial health when determining financial solvency 3. The financial health of the ultimate parent cannot be separated from the health of any of its subsidiary companies that may carry the self-bond 4. Require financial instruments that will legally hold a company to cover reclamation expenses in the case of bankruptcy 5. Calculations that support self-bonding status should be independently verified 6. Support states that opt to discontinue self-bonding In June 2015, Dingell warned of consequences of self-bonding by financially distressed coal producers at an Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee hearing and wrote to Chairman Louie Gohmert (TX-01) seeking a bipartisan investigation. The letter can be read here. The letter to Secretary Jewel can be read here and below. June 10, 2016 The Honorable Sally Jewell Secretary Department of the Interior 1849 C Street, NW Washington, DC 20240 Dear Secretary Jewell: On April 13, 2016, Peabody Energy, the country's top coal producer, became the latest and largest of the major American coal companies to file for bankruptcy. Like Arch Coal, Inc. and Alpha Natural Resources before it, Peabody chose to meet some of its reclamation obligations under the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act (SMCRA) by self-bonding instead of buying corporate surety bonds or collateral bonds. Because self-bonding requirements fail to consistently ensure all reclamation costs are covered, we urge you to take immediate action to prevent major coal companies from further offloading billions of dollars of self-bonded reclamation obligations onto taxpayers. There has not been a more urgent time to act since the enactment of SMCRA in 1977. There have been nearly 50 bankruptcies by coal companies in the last 4 years. In the last nine months, four coal companies worth over $1 billion each filed for bankruptcy. Peabody alone had $1.47 billion dollars in self-bonding obligations in Wyoming, Illinois, Indiana, Colorado and New Mexico. At the same time, clear evidence has emerged that self-bonds are not covering those costs. Arch Coal, Inc. had $485 million in self-bonds in Wyoming when it declared bankruptcy. The Wyoming Department of Environmental Quality's Land Division (LQD) entered into an agreement with Arch to assign superpriority status to only $75 million plus another $17 million in collateral bonds to replace the self-bonds. Alpha Natural Resources had $411 million in self¬ bonds in Wyoming. The LQD entered into an agreement with Alpha to assign superpriority status to only $61 million. Alpha Natural Resources had over $244 million in self-bond obligations in West Virginia. After bankruptcy, West Virginia Department of Environmental Protection entered into an agreement in which they secured only $39 million in a letter of credit and priority rights. The shrinking market for coal will do little to shrink the demand for self-bonds. The four companies that declared bankruptcy in the last 9 months represented over 40% of US coal production, leaving the remaining companies trying to survive in a market in which low natural gas prices continue to erode demand for coal. More bankruptcies can be expected. Those with self-bonds that have already declared bankruptcy have also sought to continue to self-bond. Some have already been granted that privilege. The decision to allow a coal mining company to self-bond and the methods used to support those decisions involve substantial discretion on the part of the state regulators. As the agency that provides oversight of the states, the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement (OSMRE) can prohibit the practice of self-bonding. We encourage you to pursue that option. As interim steps to help provide a more level playing field between states and coal companies, and dramatically reduce taxpayer exposure by providing clear guidance in the following areas: Use common sense indicators of financial health Section 1259(c) of SMCRA says the state coal mining regulator "may accept the bond of the applicant itself without separate surety when the applicant demonstrates to the satisfaction of the regulatory authority the existence of a suitable agent to receive service of process and a history of financial solvency and continuous operation sufficient for authorization to self-insure or bond such amount or in lieu of the establishment of a bonding program." OSMRE can clarify the application of this section in common sense ways. 1. Companies that recently declared bankruptcy should not qualify for self-bonding A company that has recently declared bankruptcy does not have a history of financial solvency and therefore should not qualify for self-bonding. As discussed below, recent bankruptcies of the guarantor company's ultimate parent company, and the parent company's subsidiaries should bear equal weight in the regulator's decision to allow self-bonding since their financial health is closely linked. 2. State regulators should look beyond the minimum required examination of financial health when determining financial solvency Regulators should not rely exclusively on the financial tests prescribed in SMCRA and in implementing rules to determine whether a company can self-bond. In a statement on February 11, 2016, Peabody confirmed that it still qualified for self-bonding, roughly two months before declaring bankruptcy. In the case of Peabody, as well as Alpha and Arch, articles in popular and trade press telegraphed the bankruptcy well ahead of time. The imminence of bankruptcy was widely reported, and therefore easily knowable by state regulators. In fact, Colorado anticipated Peabody's financial difficulties and requested that they replace their self-bonds. A company that is known to be headed toward bankruptcy should not be considered financially solvent. Similarly, annual tests of financial health should be the minimum frequency, not the maximum when there is reason to believe more frequent updates or even on-off updates would yield a different result. In the implementing regulations for SMCRA, the Federal Register notice pointed out the risk of the regulator being deprived of the full amount of the self-bond if the mining company declared bankruptcy and concluded that "it is important for the regulatory authority to monitor the self-bonded entity closely, examining financial statements as necessary and requiring replacement bond when any of the conditions of self-bonding no longer hold." 3. The financial health of the ultimate parent cannot be separated from the health of any of its subsidiary companies that may carry the self-bond. The subsidiary loophole allows a parent company to move assets and liabilities among subsidiary companies in a way that allows one of the subsidiaries to bear the financial risk on paper, which allows the subsidiary conducting the mining operations to meet the self-bonding test. However, when one coal mining subsidiary declares bankruptcy, it is not uncommon for the other subsidiaries and parent company to enter bankruptcy as well. Simultaneous collapse is not surprising because the ultimate parent company frequently pledges the assets of all its subsidiaries as collateral for debt. The parent company and all of its wholly owned affiliates entered bankruptcy at the same time in the cases of Patriot Coal Corporation (Dec 2013 and again in May 2015), James River Coal Company (April 2014), Xinergy (April 2015), and Trinity Coal (February 2013). The financial health of the ultimate parent, including the collective health of all of its subsidiaries, must be considered when evaluating the financial health of a proposed subsidiary bond guarantor. Ensure the bonds work as intended 4. Require financial instruments that will legally hold a company to cover reclamation expenses in the case of bankruptcy. The Federal Register Notice for the rule governing self-bonding explains how self-bonds may not guarantee cleanup costs are covered. "In the event of bankruptcy, the regulatory authority would probably be in the position of unsecured creditor. Typically, the regulatory authority would have to go through bankruptcy proceedings to secure payment on the indemnity agreement. Bankruptcy proceedings are often lengthy and involved, and the regulatory authority could have to settle on less than 100% payment on the indemnity agreement. The regulatory authority may be left with insufficient funds to complete the reclamation plan and may have to obtain funds elsewhere to do so." If the indemnity agreement does not protect the self-bonds through the bankruptcy process, it should either be modified or substituted with a binding financial instrument that will. 5. Calculations that support self-bonding status should be independently verified. A coal mining company's assets are a critical part of the calculations used to demonstrate sufficient financial health to qualify for self-bonding. If the value and availability of those assets were inflated to increase the chance of being able to self-bond, less of the promised assets would actually be available to cover the costs of reclamation after bankruptcy. States frequently rely on the coal company's self-reported financial statements, which are allowed under the rules of the Financial Accounting Standards Board to make clear which assets have already been pledged for another purpose, like collateral for a loan. Concern has been raised about pledging encumbered assets for self-bonds based on precedents with Arch Coal, Inc. and Luminant Mining. 18 Assets pledged for self-bonds could also be drastically undervalued if they rely on the book value of those assets. The fair market value would more accurately reflect the asset devaluation that happens when an entire industry is contracting under market competition. State regulators should require verification by an independent accountants that all assets pledged for self-bonds are completely unencumbered and are valued using fair market value. 6. Support states that opt to discontinue self-bonding. On January 5, 2016, the Colorado Department of Natural Resources announced it would be joining five other coal mining states in avoiding coal self-bonding when they wrote "We are moving away from self-bonding because we think it is less secure than other forms of financial assurances such as corporate sureties or cash bonds." As other state administrations come to understand the nature, number and magnitude of the risks to their constituents posed by self¬ bonding and transition away from it, they may need technical assistance or other kinds of support. OSMRE, who is uniquely equipped to provide it, should stand ready. Taxpayer exposure to billions of dollars in coal self-bonds is real and present. OSMRE has the discretion to take concrete steps that would limit the exposure. As members of the committee of jurisdiction, we stand ready to work with you. Sincerely,
06.12.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representatives Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement on the mass shooting in Orlando, Florida. “Like all of America, I am simply stunned at the mass shooting in Florida. The number of dead and wounded is numbing and incomprehensible. Our thoughts and prayers are with the families of the victims, the injured and the community. The first responders deserve our deepest respect and thanks. “We must be united as a nation in not allowing hatred and fear to divide us. We must stand united against evil.”
06.10.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement on the passing of Gordie Howe. “We have lost a true legend. Gordie Howe was a champion whose toughness and sportsmanship on the ice was matched only by his resilience and kindness off of it. Growing up, he was my hero, and as ‘Mr. Hockey’ he inspired generations of young people to pursue the sport he loved. “From the time he stepped on the ice to the time he stepped off, Gordie Howe was the most complete player to play the game. During a career that spanned six decades, he spent 25 seasons with the Detroit Red Wings, winning four Stanley Cups and six Hart Trophies, and earned a spot in the Hockey Hall of Fame. When he retired, he held league records in goals and assists, and to this day holds the record for the most games and seasons played, as well as the most games with a single team – 1,687 with the Detroit Red Wings. He was the best of all time. “Gordie Howe was a cherished friend to John and I, and it was an honor to be with him just a few short weeks ago at the Governor’s Fitness Awards where he was honored with the Lifetime Achievement Award. Our love and prayers are with his family. May they know that what he did for the Red Wings, for Detroit, for our state and for hockey will never be forgotten, and the new Gordie Howe International Bridge will be a reminder to two countries of all he stood for. We will always remember #9.”
06.09.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, nearly 500 clergy members, faith leaders and national faith-based organizations added their support to the bipartisan Zero Tolerance for Domestic Abusers Act, legislation introduced by U.S. Representatives Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and Robert Dold (IL-10) to protect survivors of dating violence and stalking by closing loopholes that allow abusers and stalkers to access guns. The Interfaith Coalition Against Domestic and Sexual Violence joined a number of leading domestic violence and advocacy organizations that have endorsed the bill, including the National Coalition Against Domestic Violence, Americans for Responsible Solutions, the National Domestic Violence Hotline, Everytown for Gun Safety, and the National Network to End Domestic Violence. “We are grateful for the support of the Interfaith Coalition Against Domestic and Sexual Violence and the millions of congregations and constituents they represent across the country,” said Rep. Dingell. “No matter your faith, religion, or political persuasion, we can all agree that every woman deserves to live free from fear or intimidation. Working together, I know we can move this critical legislation across the finish line, protect women, and ultimately save lives.” “Nobody should ever live in fear for their life or safety, especially because of domestic violence,” Rep. Dold said. “There is broad support for the Zero Tolerance for Domestic Abusers Act because keeping families safe is clearly something that is important to everybody. Together, we can pass this commonsense bill and save lives.” “The Interfaith Coalition has been a leading voice within the faith community to end domestic and sexual violence," said Jewish Women International CEO Lori Weinstein. "As the convener of the Coalition, we work together to lift up the diverse voices of more than three dozen national faith organizations. The letter, signed by nearly 500 clergy and faith leaders throughout the country, amplifies our message that regardless of the relationship you are in – all survivors deserve the same protections.” “As clergy members, faith leaders, and national faith-based organizations representing a diverse range of religious traditions, we believe that every person has the right to live free from violence and we are committed to fostering safe homes and communities,” members of the Interfaith Coalition wrote in their letter to members of Congress. “Domestic violence, dating abuse, and stalking are extreme violations of the dignity and humanity of a person, and these crimes have no place in our faith traditions. Wherever we see these crimes occurring, we must speak out, and when there is an opportunity to act, we must act.” To read the full letter, please click here. To learn more about the Interfaith Coalition, please click here. The Zero Tolerance for Domestic Abusers Act makes two commonsense updates to federal law to address existing loopholes that make it easy for perpetrators of dating violence and those convicted of misdemeanor stalking to legally access guns. The bill would: 1. Ensure people who have abused dating partners are prohibited from buying or owning firearms: Current federal law prohibits someone from owning a gun if they are convicted of abusing a spouse, someone they live with, or someone they have a child with from getting guns. But federal law does not include people who have abused a current or former dating partner. Abuse of a dating partner is as unacceptable as domestic abuse, plain and simple. 2. Close the loophole that lets some convicted stalkers access guns: This legislation clarifies existing law to make clear that convicted stalkers cannot legally purchase a firearm. Stalking is a sadly accurate predictor of future violence. One study of female murder victims found that 76 percent of women murdered by a current or former intimate partner experienced stalking in the year preceding the murder. Since 2008, states have enacted over 30 new laws addressing the nexus of access to guns and domestic violence. In 2014 alone, six states enacted laws to protect domestic violence victims: Indiana, Louisiana, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Washington, and Wisconsin. In 2015, leaders in Alabama, Delaware, Louisiana, Nevada, New Jersey, Oregon, South Carolina, Vermont and Washington have also passed similar legislation to protect women and families from abusers with guns. The Zero Tolerance for Domestic Abusers Act would make these protections the national standard. For more information on the bill, please click here.
06.08.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement regarding the retirement of DTE Energy’s coal-fired power plant in Trenton. The closing is part of DTE’s plan to retire eight coal-fired generators at three plants by 2023 to transition to more modern, cleaner sources of energy generation. “The way we generate energy is changing at a rapid pace as traditional forms of energy production shift to cleaner, more efficient alternatives. We have known this retirement in Trenton was coming for a long time, and DTE is working with the State of Michigan on a plan that will ensure a seamless transition for employees and customers. We will be working with DTE, Mayor Stack and all stakeholders to minimize the negative impact on the community, help Trenton take advantage of opportunities in the new energy economy, and keep the Downriver economy strong.”
06.07.2016	DEARBORN, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) received a response to her April 4th letter to the U.S. Marine Corps seeking further clarification on the circumstances surrounding the death of Private Raheel Siddiqui of Taylor. In the letter, Brigadier General David J. Furness detailed two ongoing investigations into Private Siddiqui’s March 18th death, as well as disciplinary action taken against commanding officers at Marine Corps Recruit Depot Parris Island. “My thoughts and prayers continue to be with the Siddiqui family who need and deserve answers about the death of their son, a class valedictorian who was loved by all who knew him,” said Dingell. “It is critical that the investigations into his death be conducted in a thorough and unbiased manner, but they must also be completed as soon as possible to bring much-needed closure to his family and our community. I will continue working to ensure the Siddiqui family has the resources and support they need during the ongoing investigations and beyond, and will remain fully engaged with the Marine Corps and all stakeholders to ensure we have a clear picture of what happened, including the actions that led to the June 6th discharge of a commanding officer at Parris Island. This is the very least Private Siddiqui’s family and our community deserve.” The letter from Brigadier General Furness can be read here. To read Dingell’s April 4th letter, please click here.
06.02.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today announced that member fire departments in the Washtenaw Area Mutual Aid Association will receive a grant totaling $1,363,682 from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program. The grant will be administered by Van Buren Township on behalf of the Mutual Aid Association, which also includes Ann Arbor, Ypsilanti, Ypsilanti Township, Sumpter Township, Scio Township and Belleville. It will be used to replace old self-contained breathing apparatuses (SCBA) for all riding positions, and replace them with new state-of-the-art versions. “The safety of our firefighters and first responders is a top priority,” said Dingell. “This grant will help ensure that firefighters throughout the region are equipped with the most up-to-date tools and technology to stay safe on the job while they are protecting our communities.” "We are really appreciative of Congresswoman Dingell's, and our local community leaders, support for this grant which will allow us to provide local firefighters with state-of-the-art breathing equipment," said Van Buren Township Fire Chief Dan Besson. "Grants like this allow us to outfit our firefighters with the latest technology while providing the superior protection they depend on to perform their duties. This particular regional grant will allow us to replace aging equipment in ten communities. In the past 13 years the products being burned inside a home and the tactics used to suppress those fires have changed, but in Van Buren Township's case, our breathing protection has not.” The AFG program awards grants directly to fire departments and EMS organizations that are unaffiliated with a hospital to enhance their response capabilities and to more effectively protect the health and safety of the public and emergency response personnel with respect to fire and all other hazards.
05.28.2016	DEARBORN, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement in honor of Memorial Day, which will be observed on Monday, May 30. “On Memorial Day, we pause to honor and remember those who made the ultimate sacrifice in service to this great nation. For me, Memorial Day is about coming together as a community – at memorial services and parades, with young people marching side-by-side with veterans of every era – to remember how great it is to be an American and to thank those who have given everything to protect our way of life. Since our nation’s founding, millions of brave individuals have stepped forward to defend our freedom, and they deserve our endless thanks and gratitude. On Memorial Day, we honor those who gave their ‘last full measure of devotion’ so we can be safe, secure and free. As we pay tribute to these fallen heroes, let us honor their memory by ensuring that their families and fellow veterans have the support they need and the care they deserve. Today and every day, we must keep our promise to serve our veterans and their families as well as they served us.”
05.26.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representatives Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and Tim Walberg (MI-07) today introduced legislation that would enhance transparency requirements at VA hospitals. Hospitals that receive reimbursement from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) must report a variety of quality measures to the National Healthcare Safety Network, including surgical infections. The VA Transparency Enhancement Act will help improve VA reporting requirements by bringing them more in line with other hospitals. It would also require them to report on surgical cancellations and the impact on patients for the first time. “Patients have a right to see infection rates and other issues impacting quality of care at VA hospitals,” said Dingell. “Improving transparency at the VA will help ensure we are meeting the quality standards we owe our veterans. It will also help Congress understand when, where, and why infections are happening or surgeries are cancelled so we can respond to changing conditions. Should infection or cancellation rates rise, Congress and the public need to know about it. We also need to understand whether cancelled surgeries are affecting the health of a veteran. Ensuring our veterans have timely, quality healthcare is a critical responsibility of the Congress, and this is one more very important step to ensure they do.” “Keeping the faith with America’s veterans is a sacred responsibility and one we must be unwavering in upholding. This bipartisan bill will enhance transparency and reporting requirements at VA hospitals—similar to those already followed by public and private hospitals—to ensure we are doing right by our nation’s veterans. When barriers to timely, high quality care arise, we must work together with urgency to get to the bottom of and solve them,” said Walberg. The VA Transparency Enhancement Act would require the Department of Veterans Affairs to report quarterly to Congress on the number of patients who contracted an infection as a result of a surgery and the number of surgeries cancelled or transferred by the VA. While the VA currently provides completed and pending appointment data from local VA medical facilities to the public monthly, the VA does not publically release data on rates of infection or cancelled or transferred surgeries. Since late 2015, an ongoing contamination issue at the VA Ann Arbor Healthcare System has led to surgeries for veterans being intermittently cancelled or moved to different hospitals because particulate matter was observed on sterile surgical equipment. In November, Dingell wrote a letter to then-director of the Ann Arbor VA Robert P. McDivitt questioning the cancellations. When surgeries resumed, she and Rep. Walberg again wrote the VA seeking assurances that surgeries were not being conducted in unsafe conditions. Since being alerted that the problem continues to persist, Dingell and Walberg have been in constant communication with Ann Arbor VA leadership. They met with Acting Director Eric Young and members of the senior leadership team over the weekend, and in the process, learned that VA hospitals are not required to report on surgical infection and cancellation rates, and other reporting requirements can be improved as well. Dingell and Walberg are committed to ensuring the VA has the resources needed to find the source of the contamination and fix the problem.
05.25.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12), a member of the House Committee on Natural Resources, released the following statement after the committee approved H.R. 5278, the PROMESA Act, a bipartisan bill that addresses the debt crisis in Puerto Rico. “Puerto Rico is in crisis. Today, 3.5 million Americans are suffering at the hands of a fiscal crisis that has left them without access to basic health care, electricity and public safety services, and we have a moral obligation to act. This bill would provide Puerto Rico with some of the most urgently needed tools to stem this crisis and lay the foundation for future economic growth. This is not a perfect bill. It does not do enough to address the underlying economic issues that created this crisis in the first place, but it is a first step and a bipartisan compromise that will bring relief to 3.5 million Americans. I commend Chairman Bishop and Ranking Member Grijalva for working in good faith to get us to the point where we are today. It’s what we have to do more of in this country – work together to solve major problems like this one. The worst thing we can do is fail to act.”
05.24.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12), a member of the House Committee on Natural Resources, released the following statement after the House approved bipartisan legislation to reform the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA). “Our federal chemical safety laws are badly broken. Only a small fraction of the chemicals our families are exposed to every day in things like cleaning products, clothing and furniture have ever been reviewed for safety, even though science has linked many of these common chemicals to cancer, diabetes and other illnesses. “For the first time in nearly 40 years, this bill will give EPA the tools it needs to ensure the safety of any new chemical that enters the market and the thousands of substances that are already being used. While the bill is not perfect, it is a big step forward in protecting the health of American families. This is an example of what we can accomplish when we set politics aside and work together in a bipartisan way to solve problems.”
05.24.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representatives Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and Tim Walberg (MI-07) today released the following statement on the ongoing contamination issue at the VA Ann Arbor Healthcare System. Dingell and Walberg have been in constant communication with the VA since being alerted that surgeries continue to be canceled or moved to different facilities because particulate matter has been observed on sterile surgical equipment. “The number one priority for all of us is to ensure that veterans receive the highest quality health care. When we were alerted that the contamination issue at the Ann Arbor VA Hospital continues to persist, we met with Acting Director Eric Young and other members of the senior leadership team last weekend to be briefed on the status of the investigation. We also discussed which experts have been consulted and their findings, what steps are being taken to identify and correct the source of the contamination, what is the impact on patient care, and how we can help. Our responsibility as Members of Congress is to be a voice and advocate for veterans, and we are committed to ensuring that the VA has the resources needed to determine the source of the problem and address it. “The staff at the Ann Arbor VA is a dedicated group of individuals. This issue came to light because they were doing their job inspecting surgical instruments and discovered the problem. To be clear, it does not appear that the particulate issue has caused an infection or harm to a patient. We believe it is important that, like other hospitals, the VA be open and transparent and report the number of patients that have acquired surgical infections while receiving care at the VA, and the number of surgeries that have been canceled or moved to another hospital. As a result, we will be introducing legislation this week that will increase reporting requirements for VA Hospitals to improve transparency.”
05.20.2016	ANN ARBOR, MI – Today, U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) convened a summit of regional leaders in business, manufacturing and academia to discuss policies that Congress should consider to support innovation across the country and ensure that the United States stays at the forefront of innovation and technology in the world. Dingell was joined by U.S. Congressmen Mark Pocan (WI-02) and Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) for the discussion, which is part of a series across the country to listen and understand the issues that should be included in an Innovation Agenda 2.0. “The United States needs to ensure that we remain in the driver’s seat in promoting innovation and technology,” said Rep. Dingell. “Michigan is an important contributor to the dynamic work happening in this country, from the groundbreaking emergence of connected and automated vehicles, to researching new drugs and medical devices, to developing next generation drone technologies, among much other work. To ensure we stay at the top, we need to have an environment that allows for the next big idea to actually be developed and become a technological breakthrough. That’s what the Innovation Agenda is all about. By bringing together leaders in innovation in our region and across the country, we are able to identify ways to support the ideas, creativity , and entrepreneurial spirit that has always defined the American workforce and will drive our economy in the future. I especially want to thank my colleagues Congressman Mark Pocan and Congressman Mark DeSaulnier for coming to Michigan to hear from some of the brightest minds in the country about the bold steps that are needed to spur innovation.” “In order for the United States to remain a leader in innovation, we must invest in scientific research, maintain a skilled workforce, and create an environment that encourages entrepreneurship,” said Rep. Pocan. “Today, we heard from many leaders in innovation about how we can help ensure America’s competitiveness and also spur economic growth. Thank you to Congresswoman Debbie Dingell for hosting this event and I look forward to working with my colleagues to identify new initiatives that will keep our country moving forward.” “Harnessing innovation is critical to the future of work, wages, and labor in the United States. I thank Congresswoman Dingell for inviting me to share the successes we have seen in California and to learn what is working in Michigan. By bringing together employers, innovators, and workers from across the country, we can identify new ways to innovate, create jobs, and build a stronger economy,” said Rep. DeSaulnier. The Innovation Agenda was first launched in 2007 with the goal of ensuring that the U.S. remained the world’s leader of innovation. To develop that plan, Members of Congress held listening sessions to gather ideas from local leaders in innovation on what the emerging areas in innovation are and how public-private partnerships and other initiatives can stimulate innovation and increase America’s competitiveness. Innovation Agenda 1.0 generated valuable policy ideas, 21 of which were translated into legislative provisions that were signed into law – giving more Americans access to high-speed Internet, expanding investments in clean energy technologies and supporting research and development. Now, Members of Congress have launched Innovation Agenda 2.0 to build on the progress made by the first Innovation Agenda. For an overview of the Innovation Agenda 1.0, please click here.
05.20.2016	ANN ARBOR, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement after being alerted that surgeries at the VA Ann Arbor Healthcare System continue to be canceled or moved to different facilities because particulate matter has been observed on sterile surgical equipment. In November, Dingell wrote a letter to then-Director Robert P. McDivitt following similar reports. When surgeries resumed, she and Congressman Tim Walberg (MI-07) again wrote the VA seeking assurances that surgeries were not being conducted in unsafe conditions. “I was deeply disturbed to learn there continue to be contamination issues at the Ann Arbor VA Hospital. The administration has been bringing in experts to seek solutions but it remains unacceptable that this problem continues to persist and that they still do not have answers about the source of the particulate matter that is appearing on surgical equipment. We have a responsibility to ensure they have the resources they need to identify the source of the problem so they can fix it. “This is an unacceptable problem for any hospital to have, but we are advocates for our veterans and need to be their voice. We owe our veterans quality health care, and I am committed to this challenge. This issue cannot wait. I have spoken with the Director of the hospital, and Congressman Walberg and I will meet with him in the next couple of days to discuss what needs to be done. We need to understand who is being impacted, how often it is occurring, what experts have been brought in, and any additional steps that must be taken.”
05.19.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Reps. Candice Miller (MI-10) and Debbie Dingell (MI-12) sent a letter to Governor Snyder urging him to deny Waukesha, Wisconsin’s application to divert 8.2 million gallons of water per day from the Great Lakes: “Since the Great Lakes Compact was signed in 2008, we’ve seen significant improvements in the management and conservation of the Great Lakes’ finite water supply,” Miller and Dingell said in a joint statement after sending the letter. “Approving this application to divert water would be a precedent-setting setback that would threaten the progress made by the Compact and, ultimately, our magnificent Great Lakes. That is why, today, we are urging Gov. Snyder to deny this application when it comes before the Compact Council next month.” A PDF of the signed letter is available here. Full text of the letter is as follows: May 19, 2016 The Honorable Rick Snyder Governor State of Michigan P.O. Box 30013 Lansing, Michigan 48909 Dear Governor Snyder: We write to you today to express our grave concern over the preliminary approval by the Great Lakes-St. Lawrence River Basin Water Resources Regional Body to approve the application by Waukesha, Wisconsin to divert 8.2 million gallons of water per day from the Great Lakes. When the Great Lakes-St. Lawrence River Basin Water Resources Council (Governors’ Compact Council) meets next month for the final determination of this application, we strongly urge you to vote against this proposal and vote in favor of protecting and preserving our Great Lakes. As you know, the Great Lakes Compact is a legally binding agreement among the eight Great Lakes states that sets parameters and restrictions governing the management of the Great Lakes. It establishes responsible standards for water use and conservation in the basin. The Compact was adopted in 2008 after bipartisan efforts at the state and federal levels of government. It has been the catalyst for significant improvements to the management and conservation of the Lakes’ water supply. Earlier this year, the city of Waukesha, Wisconsin submitted a request to divert water from Lake Michigan. The Compact allows for water diversion to communities within the basin but only under rare and strict conditions. We do not believe the city of Waukesha has made a compelling case that satisfies the severe circumstances outlined in the Compact for its requested diversion of 8.2 million gallons of water per day. One of Waukesha’s arguments for requiring this water is that there are high levels of radium and other contaminants in the groundwater supply and the only source for clean water for its residents is Lake Michigan. We in Michigan are acutely aware of the dangers and concerns of a contaminated water supply. However, we believe that Waukesha has not exhausted all of its options for providing safe and clean water to its residents. Diverting water from the Great Lakes should be a last resort only employed when every other means possible has been exhausted. The State of Michigan has a long history with managing water levels in the Great Lakes. Since 1900, water has been diverted from Lake Michigan to the Great Lakes system in Chicago, Illinois, for a variety of reasons. Diversion of Lake Michigan waters has varied substantially over the years and has been the source of controversy, including a case before the U.S. Supreme Court and a subsequent consent decree. Under the consent decree, Illinois was limited to diverting no more than 3,200 cubic feet of water per second each year. As you recall, in 1995, a dispute arose between Michigan and Illinois because more water was being diverted from Lake Michigan through the Chicago diversion than was allowed by the court decree – levels exceeding as much as 15% more than agreed upon. This dispute was eventually resolved but it remains in the recent memory of Michiganians and creates hesitation when they are asked to support another effort to divert water from Lake Michigan. This is a mistake we need to learn from. This request from Waukesha is precedent-setting. This is the first time such an application has been presented since the Compact was ratified. We firmly believe the approval of this request would threaten the precious, finite resources provided by our Lakes. As one of eight votes on the Governors’ Compact Council, we urge you to vote against this application. It takes all eight governors to approve the request for diversion. We believe you have the ability to stop this latest attempt to pillage our magnificent Lakes and protect it for future generations. We ask that you do the right thing. Sincerely,
05.19.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today announced that the Dearborn Fire Department will receive a $164,586 grant for safety and operations through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters (AFG) Program. The grant will be used for hazmat response training, technical rescue, and officer development courses, along with associated personnel costs to attend. “The firefighters and first responders in our communities are some of the bravest individuals I know,” said Dingell. “They are committed to continuously training and learning the latest technologies and sharing what they learn with other Downriver communities.” “I thank Congresswoman Dingell for her continuous support of the Dearborn Fire Department as we apply for these grants,” said Dearborn Fire Chief Joseph Murray. “The Congresswoman is always the first to check in with us throughout the application process to offer any assistance and I am certain her letter of support for our grant application helped us to successfully get through the process.” The AFG program awards grants directly to fire departments that are unaffiliated with a hospital to enhance their response capabilities and to more effectively protect the health and safety of the public and emergency response personnel with respect to fire and all other hazards.
05.19.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement after voting against H.R. 4909, the FY 2017 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). "The U.S. needs a serious defense budget that invests in our troops and creates a strong national defense, particularly at a time when we face growing threats and turmoil around the world. Unfortunately, the legislation we voted on tonight did not do that. "This bill contains a dangerous budget gimmick that only funds our troops through the middle of next year and puts their safety and security at risk. Defense Secretary Ash Carter has said this move drastically undermines national security and is 'gambling with warfighting money at a time of war.' In addition, this legislation contains harmful provisions that are not relevant to national defense policy. We need a bipartisan defense bill that is focused on the national security challenges we face, that provides long-term certainty to our military and keeps the American people safe. This bill falls far short, and I cannot support it."
05.13.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today voted for the House amendment to S. 524, the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act of 2016, a bipartisan package of bills aimed at preventing and treating opioid addiction. The opioid epidemic is taking a toll on communities across the country with 78 Americans dying every day from an opioid overdose. The legislation passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 400 to 5, and will now be considered by a conference committee to reconcile the differences between the House and Senate bills. “The devastating impact of prescription drugs on families is something I’ve been aware of all my life,” said Dingell. “As a child, I watched my father suffer from opioid addiction, and years later, lost my sister to a drug overdose. There is no question this crisis must be addressed, and I’m pleased that today, the House took the first step to bring hope to those suffering from addiction and their families. As we continue working to ensure young people can receive the help and support they need, and that all ages are educated about the dangers of addiction, it is important that we do not stigmatize those with very real medical needs. We must ensure the pendulum does not swing too far in one direction, and that we create a climate where patients and families can seek help and get answers. Today’s vote is a step in the right direction, and as we move to conference with the Senate, I hope negotiators will act to provide the resources needed to implement the positive actions we’ve taken today.” The House amendment to S. 524 creates a new grant program, the Comprehensive Opioid Abuse Grant Program, which provides new opportunities for state and local agencies to address the epidemic through a competitive grant program that can be used for a number of different public health purposes. For example, grantees can use funds to purchase opioid reversal drugs, implement or improve prescription drug monitoring programs, and implement programs to prevent juvenile opioid abuse, among other things. The bill also establishes a new task force with federal agencies, physicians, hospitals, addiction treatment advocates, and other stakeholders to develop best practices for pain management policies.
05.11.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, and Rep. Debbie Dingell, D-Dearborn, last week introduced bipartisan legislation in the U.S. House of Representatives that will champion the FIRST Robotics program. Upton and Dingell were joined by original cosponsors, Rep. Randy Hultgren, R-Illinois, and Rep. Suzanne Bonamici, D-Oregon. The bipartisan legislation, H.R. 5168, will issue a commemorative coin to honor Christa McAuliffe, the science teacher who tragically perished on the Space Shuttle Challenger disaster, in recognition of For Inspiration and Recognition of Science and Technology (FIRST), which was founded to inspire young people’s interest in science and technology. Funds for the sale of the coin will help support FIRST’s efforts to mentor and foster Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) education. U.S. Sen. Kelly Ayotte, R-New Hampshire, has introduced similar legislation in the Senate. “FIRST Robotics is one of the premier groups in the country teaching our kids the benefits of science and math education,” said Upton. “Because of these opportunities, these kids will grow up to become inventors, engineers, small business owners, and community leaders of all stripes. It’s vitally important that we continue to encourage this type of innovative learning and team building and I can think of no better way to help support these efforts than by honoring Christa McAuliffe, who inspired a generation of students and teachers to seek out science in order to engineer a better world. I look forward to working with my colleagues to get this bipartisan legislation passed.” “I have witnessed the positive impact FIRST Robotics has had in Michigan for a long time and seen how smart, talented and creative the young people are who participate,” said Dingell. “Students are not only getting hands-on experience with cutting-edge technology, they are graduating at higher rates and are more likely to pursue careers in science and engineering, where they will help tackle some of our most pressing future challenges. We need to encourage this talent and creativity. This coin is a pathway to support these efforts and I am proud to work with Congressman Upton to encourage young people to be at the forefront of innovation and technology.”
05.06.2016	DEARBORN, MI – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement after the U.S. Treasury Department rejected an application by the Central States Pension Fund to cut retiree benefits by as much as 70 percent. “Today’s decision by the Treasury Department is a relief for the thousands of retirees whose lives would have been turned upside down by drastic cuts to their pensions. Now families do not have to worry if they can stay in their home or afford their medicine, or wonder if they need to sell their car or cut back on groceries just to get by. But we cannot stop fighting. While we are pleased that Treasury agreed that placing an inordinate burden on workers and retirees is not the only option for Central States, it is now time for all stakeholders to return to the negotiating table to find a solution that guarantees workers the pensions they have earned and doesn’t threaten their security in their retirement years. We will not stop fighting until these retirees get the benefits they deserve.” Dingell has been fighting against proposed cuts to retiree pensions since the plan was announced. In February, she led a bipartisan coalition of 89 House colleagues in sending a letter to the U.S. Treasury Department urging the rejection of the application by Central States. She is also a cosponsor of HR 2844, the Keep Our Pension Promises Act, which would close several tax loopholes to help shore up at-risk multiemployer pension plans to help ensure that retirees get the benefits they have earned.
05.05.2016	DEARBORN, MI – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement on new rules announced today by the U.S Food and Drug Administration (FDA) that extend federal regulatory authority to all tobacco products, including electronic cigarettes. “Consumers deserve to know the products they buy are safe for use,” said Dingell. “Today’s announcement by the FDA is an important step toward ensuring key protections are in place for electronic cigarettes, which up until now have gone largely unregulated. With e-cigarette use among high school students skyrocketing from 1.5 percent in 2011 to 16 percent in 2015, we can all agree that banning the sale of tobacco products to kids and teenagers under 18 years old is a positive step in protecting future generations from the risk of tobacco use. Additionally, following a horrific incident in my district, where a Wyandotte man was severely injured by an exploding e-cigarette, it is welcome news that all parts of the e-cigarette, including the battery, will be regulated for safety.” In August, Dingell sent a letter to Dr. Stephen Ostroff, Acting Commissioner of the FDA, emphasizing the urgent need to finalize a proposed rule to regulate electronic cigarettes. Dingell sent the letter after her constituent, Sgt. Jason Diekman of Wyandotte, was severely injured by an exploding electronic cigarette that badly burned his arms and abdomen.
05.04.2016	FLINT, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today accompanied the President on his visit to Flint, where he heard firsthand from residents about the public health crisis, received a briefing on the federal efforts in place to help respond to the needs of the people of Flint, and delivered remarks to the community. “We thank the President for coming to Flint today to shine a light on this ongoing public health crisis and the families who are still in desperate need of relief,” said Dingell. “Government at all levels failed the people of Flint, and now government at all levels must come together to provide real help to the 9,000 children who were impacted by this crisis and the thousands of people still living this nightmare every day. It is my hope that the President’s visit reminds all of us what this is really about – getting solutions for Flint children and families – and that it serves as a catalyst for action at the state and federal level that will fix fundamental issues and help the city and its residents recover. This country has always stepped up to help one another in times of great need, and it is now time to do the same for Flint.”
05.04.2016	FLINT, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today announced that the Southgate Fire Department will receive a $38,182 grant for safety and operations through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters (AFG) Program. The grant will be used to purchase or repair the ventilation system for older trucks to keep the air in the station clean. “It is critical that our firefighters and first responders have the resources they need to protect our communities and stay safe on the job,” said Dingell. “This grant will ensure the Southgate Fire Department has the most up-to-date ventilation systems in place to protect the health and safety of first responders.” The AFG program awards grants directly to fire departments and EMS organizations that are unaffiliated with a hospital to enhance their response capabilities and to more effectively protect the health and safety of the public and emergency response personnel with respect to fire and all other hazards.
04.29.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) joined Congressman Tim Walberg (MI-07) in introducing “Jessie’s Law,” a bipartisan bill named after Michigan resident Jessie Grubb who tragically died earlier this year of an opioid overdose. Jessie’s Law would help ensure doctors have access to a consenting patient’s prior history of addiction in order to make fully informed care and treatment decisions. Providing this information would help prevent cases like Jessie’s, where a recovering addict in Ann Arbor was unknowingly prescribed and discharged with a powerful opioid that led to her death. “As one who has witnessed firsthand all spectrums of this issue, I believe this bill is one of the most important steps we can take in developing effective strategies to address this issue and save lives,” said Congresswoman Dingell. “My father suffered from opioid addiction much of his life and my sister died from a drug overdose. I know the horrible pain of living with a family member with addiction and the sadness you never get over of losing a loved one to the terrible scourge of addiction. In all of our discussions in seeking solutions, we must educate and prevent abuse but at the same time not stigmatize those with real and legitimate needs. Jessie’s Law does exactly that. It provides information to the treating physician and other medical professionals so they have an accurate picture to treat the patient safely and effectively.” “As a father of three, I cannot fathom the immense pain of losing a child and my heartfelt condolences are with the Grubb family. Too many families in Michigan and across America have seen lives swept up by addiction and we must act now to reverse this tragic trend. With Jessie’s Law, we are taking another important, bipartisan, step to confront this epidemic and help save lives in our communities,” said Congressman Walberg. “It is an honor to introduce Jessie’s Law in the U.S. House of Representatives. Jessie Grubb’s story is especially heartbreaking because her death could have been prevented. Simply providing medical professionals with this vital information we can prevent the unnecessary deaths of so many,” said Congressman Alex X. Mooney. Living in Ann Arbor, Michigan, Jessie Grubb was in recovery and getting her life back on track after seven years of struggling with addiction. Due to a hip injury while training for a marathon, Jessie underwent surgery in late February. Jessie’s parents informed hospital personnel that she was a recovering addict, but that message never made it to the doctor who discharged her. Jessie left with a prescription for 50 oxycodone pills and fatally overdosed that same night. Original co-sponsors of the bill include: Evan Jenkins (R-WV), Dan Kildee (D-MI), Annie Kuster (D-NH), Brenda Lawrence (D-MI), David McKinley (R-WV), John Moolenaar (R-MI), and Alex X. Mooney (R-WV). Jessie’s Law was introduced earlier this week in the U.S. Senate by Senators Joe Manchin (D-WV) and Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV) with the help of Jessie’s parents from West Virginia, David and Kate Grubb.
04.28.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representatives Debbie Dingell (D-MI), Joe Barton (R-TX), Ted Lieu (D-CA), and Joe Wilson (R-SC) today announced the formation of the bipartisan House Smart Transportation Caucus dedicated to advancing new innovation in connected and autonomous vehicles. “The future of the auto industry is changing at a rapid pace, and we are committed to keeping the U.S. in the driver’s seat,” said Dingell. “Connected and autonomous vehicle technology is one of the most competitive areas globally for manufacturing, and we need to show the world that we are leading the way in developing technology that will improve car safety and fuel efficiency, reduce congestion, and save lives. In addition, the future of mobility is changing rapidly and legislators are considering policy options that will change models of transportation in this country. The creation of this bipartisan caucus will help educate Members about the innovation that is happening in the United States, identify policy areas that need to be improved to support the development of new technologies, and boost collaboration to ensure the U.S. always maintains its competitive edge.” “I am excited to join the Smart Transportation Caucus and work to further educate and inform my fellow Members of Congress on the rapidly developing technologies in the transportation sector,” said Barton. “The Texas 6th Congressional District is home to one of the largest General Motors plants, and I have closely followed their deployment of connected vehicles and other cutting-edge technologies. This caucus will focus on a wide array of transportation methods and safety implications from a 21st century perspective.” “Technological advances in the auto industry have the potential to transform transportation in America – making our highways safer and reducing traffic,” said Lieu. “But we must implement smart policies that encourage safety and security so we can ensure that a cyberattack does not turn connected cars into weapons or paralyze an entire city. Our technological advances are only as good as the cyber security that ensures products work efficiently and safely. The bipartisan Smart Transportation Caucus will focus on encouraging the deployment of new technologies with an emphasis on safety, security and innovation. As an original cosponsor of H.R. 3994, the Security and Privacy (SPY) Car Study Act with Mr. Wilson of South Carolina, I am honored to work with him alongside Representatives Barton and Dingell as well as Senators Gardner and Peters to ensure smart, safe and secure transportation for all Americans.” “I am grateful to join my colleagues as a co-chair and founding member of the Smart Transportation Caucus,” said Wilson. “Vehicle safety is of great importance to me because South Carolina is America’s leading exporter on cars and tires. As cyber vulnerabilities in vehicles threaten the safety and privacy of American families, we need to promote collaboration across both the public and private sectors.” The Smart Transportation Caucus will encourage the development and deployment of existing and next-generation technologies, including connected and automated vehicle safety technologies, smart infrastructure, advanced traffic and freight management systems, real-time transit and parking technologies. The Caucus will also coordinate relevant stakeholders in the Federal government, the auto industry, the communications industry, transportation safety advocates, cybersecurity groups and the privacy sector to engage in meaningful debate on policies and priorities that will help best support this new era in transportation.
04.27.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Reps. Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and Candice Miller (MI-10) issued the following statement after receiving notice that Plains LPG Services, LP has withdrawn its request to the State Department for a federal permit allowing the transport of oil through aging pipelines under the St. Clair River: “We are thrilled to hear that Plains LPG has decided to withdraw its request to the State Department for a permit to transport oil through a pair of 98-year-old pipelines under the St. Clair River. As we’ve said, given the strong currents in the St. Clair, any spill would quickly spread and have a devastating impact on the entire region, which is why we petitioned the State Department to extend the public comment period so that more stakeholders could weigh in. As a result of this extension and increased transparency, the State Department received nearly 700 additional comments pointing out that too little is known about the construction and current condition of the pipelines for anyone to be confident that they can safely transport oil. Fortunately, by withdrawing their request, Plains LPG has put to rest the valid concerns over shipping crude oil through these pipes.”
04.27.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement today after meeting with members of United Steelworkers District 2, which represents 235 Locals and more than 80,000 active and retired Steelworkers in Michigan and Wisconsin, to discuss the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) and its impact on American manufacturing and workers. “The working men and women of Michigan have seen firsthand the devastating impact of bad trade policies that cost jobs and hurt American manufacturing, and the TPP would be more of the same,” said Dingell. “Every time I drive Downriver past the vacant buildings that were once thriving manufacturing plants, I become even more committed to fighting this trade deal and ensuring that we keep jobs in America. Our workers can compete with anyone in the world as long as they have a level playing field, and until our trade agreements meaningfully address currency manipulation – the mother of all trade barriers – American workers will continue to be disadvantaged by foreign governments who tilt the playing field in favor of their industries and against the United States. American workers need a government that will fight for them, and the Steelworkers are taking that message throughout the halls of Congress today. I will continue working with them to fight for fair trade policies in this country that level the playing field, protect jobs and grow American manufacturing.”
04.27.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Debbie Dingell (MI-12) joined Representatives Judy Chu (CA-27), Jackie Speier (CA-14), and Ted Lieu (CA-33) in introducing a bill to require the Pentagon to track and make annual reports on the problem of hazing in the military. The Harry Lew Military Hazing Accountability and Prevention Act, named in honor of Rep. Chu’s nephew, a marine who died after being hazed by his platoon in Afghanistan in 2011, would require the Pentagon to create a database of hazing incidents in the military and to submit an annual report on what is being done to stop hazing through training and response. This follows a report by the Government Accountability Office (GAO) released in February of this year that showed that the Department of Defense (DoD) lacks consistent data on military hazing incidents, and that servicemembers across branches are in need of better training to combat hazing. On Wednesday, Rep. Speier, a member of the House Armed Services Committee, will be introducing the text of the Harry Lew Military Hazing Accountability and Prevention Act as an amendment to the 2017 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) during the Committee markup of the legislation. The text of the bill can be found here. “I have been working with the Marine Corps on the tragic death of Private Raheel Siddiqui of Taylor, Michigan at Parris Island during boot camp,” said Rep. Dingell. “This was an intelligent, loyal, patriotic young Muslim man – and class valedictorian – who loved his country. Some are concerned that hazing may have been involved in the death of Private Siddiqui. NCIS is investigating the circumstances surrounding this tragedy, and their report will help provide the facts of what happened. During this time, I have had a number of people reach out to me to discuss the issue of hazing in the military. While I am waiting to get a better understanding of the circumstances surrounding the death of my constituent, it is clear there have been issues in the past. We all have an obligation to bring more accountability to the system and improve training so hazing is tracked and handled appropriately. We owe it to those we’ve lost to take action to prevent more senseless tragedies from happening in the future.” “Hazing has no place in our military. It breeds fear and distrust within the ranks," said Rep. Chu. “The GAO report released earlier this year showed that the Pentagon’s guidance on hazing is unclear and imperfectly applied. Each military branch has a different standard for what qualifies as hazing, and oversight is rare. I believe that without an accurate system of tracking incidents, we have no way of actually knowing the full extent of the problem. Failure to implement clear anti-hazing policies is costing lives, and that is unacceptable. It is time the military treat this problem seriously. We must move this bill forward so that we can provide the protection and support our troops deserve.” “We hear too many stories of hazing that harm soldiers’ mental health, can cause serious injury, diminish unit cohesion, and even cost lives,” said Rep. Speier. “Unfortunately, for all these tragic examples, we still lack a clear understanding of hazing and the military’s response. The creation of a database of reported incidents of hazing, implementation of surveys, and the implementation of new anti-hazing training are the least we can do to ensure progress is made to fight hazing. We must act to honor the memory of those who we have lost to abuse at the hands of their fellow soldiers.” “As a former active duty officer in the U.S. Air Force and a current Lieutenant Colonel in the Air Force Reserves, I am proud to join Congresswoman Judy Chu as an original cosponsor of the Harry Lew Military Hazing Accountability and Prevention Act,” said Rep. Lieu. “Through enhanced reporting, tracking, and training, this legislation sends a clear message that hazing and bullying have no place in our military. Our brave men and women serving in uniform must be able to focus on the mission at hand knowing that the U.S. Armed Force’s anti-hazing policies do not exist on paper but are enforced.”
04.26.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) observed this afternoon that the significant investments announced today by Ford and FCA reinforce that Michigan is leading in the development of vehicle technologies worldwide. Ford will invest a total of $1.4 billion in its Livonia Transmission Plant, creating or retaining 500 hourly jobs. FCA will invest $74.7 million in its Trenton Engine Complex, retaining 245 jobs. “The most important takeaway from today’s announcements is that Michigan is driving the future of vehicle innovation in the world,” said Dingell. “Both of these investments are critical in developing next-generation technologies that will make the cars and trucks of the future smarter and more fuel efficient. Most importantly, these technologies will continue to be manufactured right here in Southeast Michigan, evidenced by today’s good news and Ford’s recent commitment to investing in and growing its Dearborn campus. “These announcements demonstrate Ford and FCA’s continued strong commitment to Michigan and further position our state as a global leader in vehicle innovation. The bottom line is that the Midwest is at the forefront of innovation in the auto industry and developing new technologies that are driving cars and trucks to be more fuel efficient. These announcements will ensure that Michigan – the home of the auto industry – continues to be a world leader as the industry changes and adapts to a 21st century global economy.”
04.22.2016	ANN ARBOR, MI – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today celebrated Earth Day with local students in Ann Arbor. Dingell met with third and fourth graders at Ann Arbor Open School to talk about government and what Earth Day means. She then visited students, teachers and parents at Honey Creek Community School, where a day of activities was planned to celebrate the planet and deepen students’ understanding of the shared responsibility to protect it. “Earth Day is a time to remind us that we are borrowing the land we live on from generations to come,” said Dingell. “This year in particular, with what has happened in Flint, we are reminded that we cannot take the water we drink or the air we breathe for granted. It was inspiring to talk with young people today who are already engaged and want to know how they can help protect the environment. There is no better way to celebrate Earth Day.” “We have made progress in recognizing the significant environmental dangers to our planet since the first Earth Day in 1970, but much work remains to protect the earth's many natural resources,” Dingell continued. “We have a moral obligation to protect the land we live on for future generations, and we must continue efforts to address climate change head-on, reduce emissions, and invest in renewable energy and innovative technologies. At the same time, we must also ensure we don't roll back progress achieved in protecting endangered species, cleaning our waters and improving air quality. The signing of today's Paris Agreement by President Obama and more than 160 other countries is a step to ensure we continue to move in that direction.”
04.22.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Tim Walberg (MI-07) and Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) introduced bipartisan legislation to bring more accountability to the federal prison system. H.R. 5042, the Federal Prisons Accountability Act, would require the Director of the Bureau of Prisons (BOP) to receive a presidential appointment and a confirmation by the U.S. Senate, as is the case for nearly all other top federal law enforcement agency officials. Currently, the Director of BOP is appointed by the Attorney General and not subject to Senate approval. As the number of inmates and costs of incarceration have risen dramatically in recent decades, increasing congressional oversight will help ensure the agency is effectively using taxpayer resources, responsive to inmates and corrections employees, and successfully addressing the rehabilitation and mental health needs of the federal prison population. In Michigan, Washtenaw County is home to the Milan Federal Correctional Institution, which has approximately 1,500 inmates and 400 staff members. “Our federal prison system is in dire need of reform, and we can begin by adding more oversight and accountability to the Bureau of Prisons,” said Congressman Walberg. “Congressional review is essential to ensuring an agency this large stewards taxpayer dollars well and remains focused on improving outcomes for both inmates and employees alike.” “There is broad bipartisan support in Congress for criminal justice reform, and improving oversight of the Bureau of Prisons is a first step in ensuring better outcomes for inmates, employees and taxpayers,” said Congresswoman Dingell. “Mental health is an important aspect that is often overlooked, and improving Congressional oversight of the BOP will help ensure improving these services in our prisons is a priority.” The bill was also introduced in the Senate earlier this year by Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) and Senators Cory Booker (D-NJ), Rand Paul (R-KY), and Mike Lee (R-UT).
04.21.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement on the ongoing investigation into the death of U.S. Marine Corps Private Raheel Siddiqui, who died on March 18, 2016 at Marine Corps Recruit Depot Parris Island. “The family of Private Raheel Siddiqui deserves to understand all of the facts and circumstances surrounding his tragic death. We are working to ensure that this investigation is carried out in a thorough, detailed and exhaustive manner, and I continue to speak with the appropriate people at the Marine Corps to ensure this occurs. The Navy Criminal Investigative Service is continuing their investigation. It is very important that we have a full picture of what happened. I am awaiting a written response to my letter dated April 4, 2016 which will provide some sense of when we can expect a full report and any appropriate action following this tragedy. “While this investigation proceeds, it is very important to me and our community that everyone understand that by all accounts this was an intelligent, loyal, patriotic young Muslim man – and class valedictorian – who loved his country, and I have been deeply touched at the overwhelming number of people who have reached out to me who knew him, attended school with him, or worked with him. Each one has told me that all he wanted to do was serve the country that had been so good to him and protect the freedoms we hold dear. “We remain fully engaged with the Marine Corps, NCIS and all responsible parties to ensure a prompt and unbiased investigation that will provide Private Siddiqui’s family and our community the answers they deserve.” Earlier this month, Dingell sent a letter to U.S. Marine Corps Commandant General Robert B. Neller seeking further clarification on the circumstances surrounding the death of Private Siddiqui. For more information, please click here.
04.20.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today announced that the City of Allen Park Fire Department will receive a $50,091 grant for safety and operations through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program. “This grant is critical for our firefighters and first responders who are the glue that keep our communities safe every day,” said Dingell. “This funding will help ensure that Allen Park has the resources to keep firefighters safe on the job so they can help those in need. It is also important to note that in the Downrivers all of the communities support each other in times of crisis, which is why they formed the Mutual Aid Consortium. This grant is good news for not only Allen Park, but surrounding communities as well.” The AFG program awards grants directly to fire departments and EMS organizations that are unaffiliated with a hospital to enhance their response capabilities and to more effectively protect the health and safety of the public and emergency response personnel with respect to fire and all other hazards.
04.19.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today reaffirmed the importance of the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF) for states across the country after the U.S. Department of the Interior announced that Michigan will receive $2,468,616 to support conservation and recreation projects in local communities. The LWCF was founded 50 years ago and has preserved public lands and natural resources in nearly every county in the country. Dingell has been a leader in calling for Congress to permanently reauthorize the LWCF. “LWCF funding has protected some of our state’s most critical natural resources – including the Detroit River International Wildlife Refuge – and created jobs, supported our local economies, and provided countless opportunities for recreation,” said Dingell, a member of the House Natural Resources Committee. “There is broad bipartisan support in Congress for permanent reauthorization of the LWCF, and we will keep fighting to ensure this program continues to protect our natural resources for future generations.” Created by Congress in 1965, the LWCF has safeguarded natural areas, water resources and cultural heritage sites in every state in the country. In Michigan, LWCF money was used to support the acquisition of the 410 acre Humbug Marsh unit to the Detroit River International Wildlife Refuge. This investment protected the last mile of natural shoreline along the U.S. portion of the Detroit River, a deal Dingell said “never could have happened” without investment from the LWCF. A recent analysis of the Land and Water Conservation Fund found that every $1 invested in land acquisition generated a $4 return on investment for communities. In December 2015, Congress provided a short-term three-year renewal of the LWCF, the nation’s premier recreation and conservation program, after letting it expire on September 30 for the first time in its 50 year history. Dingell is a cosponsor of H.R. 1814, legislation introduced by Natural Resources Ranking Member Raúl M. Grijalva, which would permanently reauthorize the LWCF. The legislation currently has more than 200 bipartisan cosponsors.
04.12.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement today on Ford’s announcement that it will transform its more than 60-year-old Dearborn facilities into a modern, green and high-tech campus to foster innovation and help drive the company’s transition to an auto and a mobility company. “Those of us who love Michigan and are committed to its vibrant future were pleased to learn of Ford’s plans to transform its campus in Southeast Michigan. I was even more delighted because it is another example of the company’s strong commitment to Dearborn and Southeast Michigan, my home and my district. “The announcement continues to demonstrate Ford’s focus on growth and investment in the U.S., their leadership in developing new technologies right here in Michigan, and their commitment to driving innovation and collaboration in every part of their business. Particularly exciting is their work on the future of mobility, connected vehicle technology and driverless vehicles. This important investment in Michigan employees and the future of the auto industry will help attract emerging businesses and even more people to Michigan – and also ensure that Michigan remains the center of the world’s automotive competitiveness. We will not cede that designation to any state our other country.”
04.05.2016	DEARBORN, MI – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement on Ford’s announcement that it will invest $1.6 billion in a new plant in San Luis Potosi, Mexico. “Ford’s announcement today that they are investing $1.6 billion in their operations in Mexico is not surprising. Last year’s labor negotiations and the subsequent dialogue indicated this was likely to happen. The question to me is how do we create more jobs in Michigan and the United States? The answer is to enact trade agreements that crack down on currency cheating by other countries and create a more level playing field. “Ford remains an important and significant employer in Michigan and the country as a whole. Since 2011, Ford has invested $10.2 billion into U.S. plants and will invest $9 billion more over the next four years, including $4.8 billion right here in Michigan. Ford produces more vehicles in the U.S. than any other auto manufacturer and employs more hourly workers. We are thankful for their continued investment in Michigan and the American worker, but we need to enact smart trade policies that create an environment for manufacturing to thrive in the U.S. and compete in the global marketplace.”
04.04.2016	ANN ARBOR, MI – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today sent a letter to U.S. Marine Corps Commandant General Robert B. Neller seeking further clarification on the circumstances surrounding the death of U.S. Marine Corps Private Raheel Siddiqui of Taylor, Michigan. Private Siddiqui died on March 18, 2016 after arriving at Parris Island for boot camp. “It is our shared responsibility to ensure there is a prompt and unbiased inquiry into the circumstances surrounding his death,” Dingell wrote. “Therefore, I respectfully request answers to the following questions to help ensure Congress and the family have a full accounting of the circumstances surrounding this tragedy. “Answers to these questions will give the family comfort during these difficult times and will help Congress conduct oversight of this incident.” The letter can be read here and below. April 4, 2016 General Robert B. Neller Commandant U.S. Marine Corps 3000 Marine Corps, Pentagon Washington, DC 20350-3000 Dear General Neller: This letter is in regards to the tragic death of U.S. Marine Corps recruit Private Raheel Siddiqui of Taylor, Michigan. Private Siddiqui died on March 18, 2016 after arriving at Parris Island for boot camp. He was a young man of the Muslim faith who loved his country and wanted to serve it and protect the freedoms for which it stands. My thoughts and prayers go out to his family and friends during this difficult time. It is our shared responsibility to ensure there is a prompt and unbiased inquiry into the circumstances surrounding his death. Therefore, I respectfully request answers to the following questions to help ensure Congress and the family have a full accounting of the circumstances surrounding this tragedy. 1. What is the timeline for when the Navy Criminal Investigative Service is expected to complete their inquiry into the death of Private Siddiqui? It is critical that this thorough and comprehensive inquiry be completed as soon as possible. 2. Will the Marine Corps commit to preserving all relevant records relating to Private Siddiqui’s death, including medical and autopsy records, and share them with Congress and the family at the appropriate time? 3. It is my understanding that Lt. Col. Joshua Kissoon, a recruit battalion commander at Parris Island, was relieved of his command one day prior to Private Siddiqui’s death. Why was Lt. Col. Kissoon relieved of his duties? Was there any indication of his not being sensitive enough to the needs of recruits? Did Lt. Col Kissoon ever interact with Private Siddiqui? Please provide a detailed response. 4. Some are concerned that hazing may have been involved in the death of Private Siddiqui. Has the Marine Corps received any indication that any hazing occurred in this instance? Does the Marine Corps have any policies in place to prevent and deter hazing from happening at basic training? Please provide a detailed response. Answers to these questions will give the family comfort during these difficult times and will help Congress conduct oversight of this incident. Given the importance of this request, I ask that you respond to this letter no later than close of business Monday, April 18, 2016. Please do not hesitate to contact me directly if you have any questions or need any more information. Sincerely, Debbie Dingell Member of Congress
04.04.2016	ANN ARBOR, MI – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and Congressman Tim Walberg (MI-07) today co-hosted a Veterans Fair to provide veterans and their family members throughout Washtenaw County with access to resources earned through their service to our country. More than 20 different veterans employment specialists, Veterans Affairs counselors and veterans services organizations participated. Dingell and Walberg both represent parts of Washtenaw County, and this is the second Veterans Fair they have hosted for local veterans and their families. “We as a nation have a responsibility to ensure the veterans who served our country and their families have access to all the help and support they need,” Dingell said. “Today’s Veterans Fair was a one-stop shop to connect veterans with the critical resources and services they have earned, and it is our hope that by holding these local resource fairs – now and in the future – veterans and their family members will be able to access all these benefits with ease.” “When the men and women who have selflessly served our country return home, we have an obligation to provide the best quality health care. Michigan’s veterans are worthy of our greatest respect and appreciation, and I’m proud to work with Congresswoman Dingell to help them cut through red tape and get access to the benefits and resources they deserve,” said Walberg. Veterans and their families from Michigan’s 12th District who need help with the VA or another federal agency are encouraged to call Dingell’s Dearborn office at (313) 278-2936. Veterans from the 7th District can call Congressman Walberg’s office Jackson office at (517) 780-9075. Organizations that participated in the Veterans Fair include: • American Legion Department of Michigan • Ann Arbor VA Healthcare System • Buddy to Buddy • Camp Liberty • Catholic Social Services of Washtenaw • Detroit VA Regional Office • Fallen Heroes Memorial Foundation / Operation Military Resource • I Carry the Cross Foundation • Michigan Ability Partners • Michigan Attorney General Senior Brigade • Michigan Department of Treasury - Unclaimed Property Division • Michigan Operation Freedom Outdoors • Michigan Veterans Affairs Agency • National Guard Family Assistance Centers • Paralyzed Veterans of America • SEMCA Michigan Works! Financial Coaching • VA Vocational Rehabilitation & Employment • VFW • Vietnam Veterans of America • Washtenaw County Department of Veterans Affairs • Washtenaw Michigan Works! – Disabled Veterans Outreach Program
04.01.2016	ANN ARBOR, MI – On Monday, April 4, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and Congressman Tim Walberg (MI-07) will be co-hosting a Veterans Fair in Washtenaw County to provide veterans and their family members with access to resources earned through their service to our country. More than 20 different veterans employment specialists, Veterans Affairs counselors, and veterans service organizations will all participate. For additional information, constituents can call Congresswoman Dingell’s office at 313-278-2936 or Congressman Walberg’s office at 517-780-9075. WHAT: Washtenaw County Veterans Fair WHEN: 10 a.m. – 12 p.m., Monday, April 4 WHERE: VFW Post 423, 3230 S. Wagner Rd., Ann Arbor Participating Organizations: • American Legion Department of Michigan • Ann Arbor VA Healthcare System • Buddy to Buddy • Camp Liberty • Catholic Social Services of Washtenaw • Detroit VA Regional Office • Fallen Heroes Memorial Foundation / Operation Military Resource • I Carry the Cross Foundation • Michigan Ability Partners • Michigan Attorney General Senior Brigade • Michigan Department of Treasury - Unclaimed Property Division • Michigan Operation Freedom Outdoors • Michigan Veterans Affairs Agency • National Guard Family Assistance Centers • Paralyzed Veterans of America • SEMCA Michigan Works! Financial Coaching • VA Vocational Rehabilitation & Employment • VFW • Vietnam Veterans of America • Washtenaw County Department of Veterans Affairs • Washtenaw Michigan Works! – Disabled Veterans Outreach Program
03.31.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement on a study released today by the Water Center at the University of Michigan documenting the potential impacts of an oil spill in Line 5 in the Straits of Mackinac. “Today the University of Michigan released a study that demonstrates that all of us in Michigan need to be concerned about Line 5 under the Straits of Mackinac. If there was a leak or spill from this pipeline, it would impact the entire state of Michigan. With more than 700 miles of shoreline vulnerable to a leak, a potential spill would destroy the Great Lakes ecosystem and jeopardize Michigan’s economy and hundreds of thousands of jobs. We must take proactive steps to secure our pipelines and ensure this type of spill never happens in the Great Lakes. It is a danger too significant to ignore. “In 2011, John Dingell and Fred Upton worked together to pass a law to update and strengthen pipeline safety regulations following the tragic oil spill in the Kalamazoo River. More action is needed. Congress must pass legislation this year to implement higher standards for pipelines operating under the Great Lakes, as well as provide safety regulators the resources they need to do their jobs. Congresswoman Candice Miller and I are also closely monitoring the proposed use of pipelines under the St. Clair and Detroit Rivers, which provide drinking water to millions, to ensure all risks are assessed and Michigan residents have an opportunity to make their voices heard. We must all work together to protect the Great Lakes, now and for the future.” Earlier this month, Dingell and Miller wrote a letter to Secretary John Kerry urging him to extend the public comment period for Plains LPG Services’ proposed use of pipelines under the St. Clair and Detroit Rivers. The State Department agreed to reopen the public comment period for an additional 30 days. For more information, please click here.
03.30.2016	DEARBORN, MI – As part of Women’s History Month, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) will join Facebook on Monday, March 28, at 9:30 a.m. for a Boost Your Business seminar in Ann Arbor. The seminar is free to the public and aims to provide local women small business owners with the most up-to-date tools, insights and best practices for optimizing their presence and engaging customers on the world’s largest social network. The seminar, co-hosted by the Ann Arbor/Ypsilanti Regional Chamber and the National Association of Women Business Owners (NAWBO), will kick off with welcoming remarks from Dingell and will be followed by a presentation from a Facebook small business expert on the latest Facebook best practices and strategies for success. A question and answer session will follow, featuring a panel of local small business people that will share their Facebook tips, tricks and suggestions. The small businesses represented on the panel are Gift of Life Michigan, Ita Yoga Studio and Epic Races. “Small businesses are the engines of our economy, and I am pleased to join Facebook for this important event in honor of Women’s History Month,” said Dingell. “This workshop will provide valuable information to help women-owned small businesses reach new customers, deepen relationships and continue to grow and contribute to our strong community.” There are more than 50 million businesses worldwide using Facebook to connect with customers, and approximately 8 in 10 Facebook users are connected to at least one small business in their network.
03.22.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement on the terror attacks in Brussels, Belgium. “My heart breaks at the tragic news from Brussels, Belgium where at least three explosions during rush hour have left more than 30 dead and over 200 wounded. All of America stands united with our friends in Belgium, all of Europe and the world in denouncing terrorism wherever it threatens freedom, democracy and peace. We must double down on our commitment to bring to justice whoever is responsible for these attacks and renew our efforts to promote peace across the globe. We must all be vigilant against this hatred, but we cannot let the terrorists win. Most importantly, we cannot allow fear and hatred to divide us and instead must stand united in defeating evil.”
03.22.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, as part of Women’s History Month, U.S. Representatives Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and Candice Miller (MI-10) welcomed to Washington, D.C. an Honor Flight of Original “Rosie the Riveters,” women who worked the factories during World War II, producing munitions and war supplies critical to an Allied victory. “It was a tremendous honor to be able to welcome dozens of ‘Original Rosie’ to our nation’s capital to honor them for their selfless service during World War II,” Dingell and Miller said in a joint statement. “These women are true trailblazers who stepped up during one of the most turbulent times in our nation’s history to build planes, tanks and other necessities for the war effort and forever redefined the role of women in the workplace. We will always be thankful for their strength and gusto, which was integral to getting a tough job done, and their unwavering American spirit, which continues to inspire us all.” The Honor Flight, made possible by The Ford Motor Company Fund and the Yankee Air Museum, in partnership with Talons Out Honor Flight, brought dozens of “Original Rosies” from the Detroit area to honor and celebrate them and their lasting contributions to this country. The day included visits to the World War II Memorial, the Women in Military Service Memorial and a luncheon on Capitol Hill. Photos from the day can be downloaded here. The Rosie Honor Flight comes after more than 2,000 women, including 43 Original Rosies, gathered at the former Willow Run Bomber Plant in Ypsilanti, Michigan to take back the Guinness World Record for the largest gathering of Rosie the Riveters since WWII. Dingell and Miller submitted to the Congressional Record a tribute to America’s Rosies for Women’s History Month. The statement can be read in full below. HON. CANDICE S. MILLER and HON. DEBBIE DINGELL OF MICHIGAN IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVESHonoring the Women who served during World War II for their contributions to the United States of America March 1, 2016 Mr. Speaker, it is our distinct privilege to recognize an incredible group of women today. On May 29, 1943, in the midst of war, a new image appeared on the cover of the Saturday Evening Post. Created by Norman Rockwell, it was an image of a woman who was strong and brave. The image acted as an introduction to heroes the American people had already come to know. These heroes, known as Rosie the Riveters, have been solidified in our national memory as champions. Initially, there was uncertainty as to whether or not women should be allowed to work in industries and fill positions that were previously only occupied by men. However, as the war moved on, women began to fill positions in the workplace and keep American industry, and the war effort, afloat. Slogans such as “The More Women at Work the Sooner We Win” were sprawled across newspapers and magazines and appealed to women’s patriotism and willingness to serve. As a part of Women’s History Month, on March 22nd, we will welcome a group of “Original Rosies” to the United States Capitol to celebrate their tremendous contributions to our nation. To these women we say: through your service during the Second World War, you played an invaluable role in the war effort and victory as a part of the Greatest American Generation. Your rigorous work and passionate love of our great country are arguably what sustained the American people, at home and abroad, during a volatile time of war and uncertainty. You made great personal sacrifices and served with such infectious zeal that you were able to reinvigorate the war effort and inspire, encourage, and support your communities. Since your time serving during the War, the number of working women in the United States has never fallen to pre-war levels; this is one of countless examples of your legacy. Your generation paved a path for the generations of women to follow. We are grateful for the work you have done. We honor you and recognize your work as a symbol of American strength and ingenuity. Rosie’s story inspires us. You inspire us, and we will continue to tell your stories to our children and grandchildren to ensure the American spirit, which you embody, never leaves our hearts. Your spirit is a reminder to the American people that we, too, can do something more for our country.
03.16.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12), a member of the House Budget Committee, today asked her colleagues to take one nonpartisan vote to meet a moral obligation to the people of Flint. She called on members of the committee to support an amendment she offered to the FY2017 budget resolution that would designate $457.5 million in emergency funding for Flint in 2016 to address the ongoing drinking water crisis and assist families affected by lead exposure. The amendment would require matching funds from the state. “I’m not interested in playing the blame game,” said Dingell. “Government at all levels failed the people of Flint and government at all levels has a moral obligation to fix this man-made problem. We need to come together and vote to give real hope to the 9,000 children who were impacted by this crisis and are going to require long-term health services, and the thousands of people who are still living this nightmare every day. The people of Flint need real help, not just nice words.” To watch Dingell’s opening remarks on the amendment, please click here. To watch her closing remarks, please click here. Dingell’s amendment would have provided $170 million for water infrastructure projects and subsidized loans and grants for any state that receives an emergency declaration for lead exposures. It also would have provided wraparound health and education services for Flint families by providing $12.5 million in Community Development Block Grant funding; $225 million for expanded early childhood and other educational services; $40 million for a registry to monitor the health of residents in communities with lead contamination; and $10 million for grants to states to connect pregnant women and new mothers with healthcare and childhood development resources. Despite calls for bipartisanship, the Republican majority rejected the amendment by a vote of 22-14.
03.16.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement on President Obama’s nomination of federal appeals court Chief Judge Merrick Garland as the next Associate Justice of the U.S. Supreme Court. “Today, the President fulfilled his constitutional duty to nominate a justice to fill the vacancy on the Supreme Court. Judge Merrick Garland has more federal judicial experience than any other Supreme Court nominee in history and is widely recognized as a fair-minded, meticulous jurist with a knack for building consensus. Throughout his career, most recently as the chief judge of the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals – widely regarded as the most important federal appeals court in the nation – he has earned a reputation for playing it straight and deciding every case based on what the law requires, an approach that has been praised by Republicans and Democrats alike. Judge Garland’s unimpeachable credentials, balanced approach, and strong dedication make him an outstanding candidate for the Supreme Court and I encourage the Senate to fulfill its constitutional responsibility to give him a fair hearing and timely consideration and action.”
03.15.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement regarding the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality’s long-overdue proposal to strengthen the state’s cleanup standards for 1,4-dioxane. Last month, Dingell sent a letter to MDEQ Director Keith Creagh urging the state to finalize stricter standards to help accelerate cleanup of a dioxane plume that has been spreading through the groundwater in Ann Arbor for decades after an unfortunate business practice by Gelman Sciences, now owned by Pall Life Sciences, allowed the chemical into the ground. Michigan is among the last states in the country to update its dioxane standard after the Environmental Protection Agency classified the chemical as “likely to be carcinogenic in humans by all routes of exposure” and has recommended lower standards for health-based drinking water guidance values. “The City of Ann Arbor has been waiting for years for MDEQ to finalize stricter dioxane cleanup standards that reflect the latest science and guidelines from the EPA, and I am glad the standard is now out. This proposal will give Ann Arbor, and MDEQ, another important tool for holding Pall Life Sciences accountable for the contamination they caused many years ago and will give citizens greater confidence that every effort is being made to protect public health. The community deserves to know that their drinking water is safe, and I encourage residents to take full advantage of the public comment period as MDEQ finalizes the proposed rule. The state must also continue to work with the Ann Arbor Mayor, City Council, and other stakeholders in the region to assure them that the plume is being adequately monitored and that they are pursuing all available options to accelerate cleanup of the contamination. I will continue to press EPA to ensure this is being monitored at all levels.”
03.11.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and U.S. Representative Candice Miller (MI-10) today announced that the State Department has agreed to reopen the public comment period for the proposed use of pipelines under the St. Clair and Detroit Rivers for an additional 30 days. Earlier this month, Dingell and Miller wrote a letter to Secretary John Kerry urging him to allow time for additional public comments on the proposal by Plains LPG Services. Dingell and Miller issued the following statement applauding the extension: “We are pleased the State Department listened to the concerns of residents, organizations and stakeholders across Michigan who were unaware of the opportunity to comment on the proposed pipelines and their potential impact on the Great Lakes and the quality of drinking water for millions of residents. Any potential spill in this area would be devastating for the entire region, and we are glad that we could work together in a bipartisan manner to ensure Michigan residents have an opportunity to make their voice heard. The impact of such a proposal goes well beyond both of our districts.” The pipelines under consideration are located in Michigan's 10th Congressional District, which is represented by Rep. Candice Miller and was home to Rep. Debbie Dingell growing up. To read the full letter from the State Department, please click here.
03.11.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today met with Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau in Washington as part of a six-member delegation meeting led by Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi. In the meeting, Dingell raised issues of national security and trade and thanked Trudeau for his support of the Gordie How International Bridge between Detroit and Windsor and his early work to delay construction of a nuclear waste facility near Lake Huron. Dingell told the Prime Minister that she hoped we would never see nuclear waste in the Great Lakes. “Michigan shares a lot with our neighbors to the north – a border, a strong auto industry, an appreciation for good hockey, and a love of the Great Lakes,” said Dingell. “I appreciate Prime Minister Trudeau taking time to discuss the critical issues we must continue to work closely on, including securing our northern border and preserving an open market that will allow our economies to thrive. I also thanked him for his early work to prevent nuclear waste from entering the Great Lakes and his commitment to building the new Gordie Howe International Bridge that will serve to further ties between our two great nations. We are grateful to have Canada as a partner and look forward to working together to advance our shared values and priorities.”
03.01.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Representatives Candice Miller (MI-10) and Debbie Dingell (MI-12) sent a letter to Secretary Kerry urging him to extend the public comment period for Plains LPG Services’ proposed use of pipelines under the St. Clair and Detroit Rivers, which supply drinking water to millions who rely on them and other water intakes along the St. Clair River and Lake St. Clair. In the letter to Secretary Kerry the members write: “The Great Lakes provide 20 percent of the world’s freshwater drinking supply, hundreds of thousands of jobs in the region tied to the $7 billion recreational fishing and $16 billion recreational boating industries, and more than 3,500 species of plants and animals inhabit the basin. The St. Clair River connects to Lake Huron in the north and Lake St. Clair and the Detroit River to the south. The Detroit River is the source of drinking water for three to four million people. Considering the swift currents of the St. Clair River, any type of breach in the pipelines would be quickly swept downstream and could potentially have a negative impact on the quality of the drinking water for millions. Surely, the health of the Great Lakes – as well as the health of those who rely on it for safe drinking water – is worth taking the time to fully assess the risks involved in such an undertaking and allowing the input of the public at the same time.” A PDF of the letter is available here. March 1, 2016 The Honorable John Kerry Secretary U.S. Department of State 2201 C Street, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20520 Dear Secretary Kerry: We write with concern regarding the recent request by Plains LPG Services to obtain a permit to operate and maintain facilities it has acquired pertaining to pipelines at the U.S.–Canada border (St. Clair Pipeline border facilities) and at the Detroit River. As the agency with jurisdiction over approval of cross-border facilities, we ask that you, at a minimum, suspend this request until further information from the public can be submitted about the potential impact or threat the pipes pose to the Great Lakes. Concern for the environment and the Great Lakes should be the first priority when considering Plains LPG’s plan. As you know, most of the pipelines to be used for this transport pass through the St. Clair River and at least one was constructed in 1918 – nearly 100 years ago. Safety protocols, manufacturing innovations, and engineering advancements in the energy industry have significantly improved since the pipelines’ construction, making the continued use of these lines potentially precarious. This concern is compounded by the fact that just last year Plains LPG’s parent company, Plains All American, was unable to prevent the spill of approximately 3,000 barrels of crude oil, which damaged the ecosystem near Refugio Beach in Santa Barbara County, California. The perceived hastiness and lack of transparency with which this process is moving forward is concerning. While there was a 30-day comment period published in the Federal Register about this proposal, there were very few comments submitted by the public and there was a multitude of concerns from various individuals and organizations that they were unaware of the opportunity to provide feedback. These stakeholders – local residents, environmental groups, academics, local governments, and industry – are sure to weigh in if given the opportunity. It is these voices that the State Department would benefit from hearing on such a multifaceted issue as ensuring the protection of the Great Lakes. Moreover, this additional time would be opportune for Plains LPG to provide more clarity into its plans for these pipelines – the specific product it will transport, the pipelines it will use, and any other preemptive efforts it will take to ensure the integrity of the pipes are not breached. The Great Lakes provide 20 percent of the world’s freshwater drinking supply, hundreds of thousands of jobs in the region tied to the $7 billion recreational fishing and $16 billion recreational boating industries, and a home to more than 3,500 species of plants and animals. The St. Clair River connects to Lake Huron in the north and Lake St. Clair and the Detroit River to the south. The Detroit River is the source of drinking water for three to four million people. Considering the swift currents of the St. Clair River, any type of breach in the pipelines would be quickly swept downstream and could potentially have a negative impact on the quality of the drinking water for millions. Surely, the health of the Great Lakes – as well as the health of those who rely on it for safe drinking water – is worth taking the time to fully assess the risks involved in such an undertaking and allowing the input of the public at the same time. We understand that the next step in this process is to commence an interagency review. In the coming days, we will also be contacting those agencies expressing our concern with this proposal. We eagerly await your prompt reply and look forward to speaking with you about this soon. Sincerely, _________________________ ______________________________ Rep. Candice S. Miller Rep. Debbie Dingell cc: Gina McCarthy, Administrator, Environmental Protection Agency Maria Therese Dominguez, Administrator, Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration Catherine McKenna, Minister of Environment and Climate Change, Canada Gordon Walker, Chair, Canadian Section, International Joint Commission Lana Pollock, Chair, U.S. Section, International Joint Commission
02.23.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today announced that Mike Klotz, an Allen Park native and graduate of Eastern Michigan University, will join the staff in her Washington, D.C. office as a Legislative Assistant. Klotz joins the Dingell team after working at the U.S. Coast Guard and U.S. Department of Energy. “We are thrilled to welcome Mike to our team,” said Dingell. “Mike brings a wealth of knowledge about Southeast Michigan and a passion for serving the region where he grew up. His background and skillset will be a tremendous asset to the people of the 12th District and our team as we continue working to ensure their voices are heard in Washington.” “I consider it a great honor to join Congresswoman Dingell’s team to serve the people of Michigan’s 12th District,” said Klotz. “I grew up in Allen Park and graduated from Eastern Michigan University, so I look forward to working for the people back home.” As Legislative Assistant, Klotz will be responsible for policy areas including trade, labor, energy, manufacturing and the budget. Klotz most recently served as a Special Assistant in the Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy (EERE) at the Department of Energy. Prior to joining the Department of Energy, he spent five years working for the U.S. Coast Guard, most recently as a Security Operations Advisor.
02.19.2016	ANN ARBOR, M.I. – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today released the following statement after the U.S. Treasury Department announced it would obligate an additional $74,491,816 to Michigan through the Hardest Hit Fund (HHF) program. The funding will allow the Michigan State Housing Development Authority (MSHDA) to continue assisting struggling homeowners and stabilizing neighborhoods in communities hardest hit by the economic downturn. “This is another important step in the Administration’s effort to help communities and homeowners recover from the depths of the recession and build a brighter future. We will all work together to ensure this funding is targeted to areas of greatest need, including blight remediation programs which have helped stabilize the housing market and create safer and more economically vibrant neighborhoods in cities throughout Southeast Michigan.”
02.18.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today sent a letter to Michigan Department of Environmental Quality (MDEQ) Director Keith Creagh urging the state to take long-overdue action to finalize stricter cleanup standards for 1,4-dioxane that will bring the level permissible in groundwater more in line with the national standard and help accelerate cleanup of an underground dioxane plume that has been spreading through groundwater systems in Ann Arbor for decades. Following the Flint water crisis, the Ann Arbor Mayor, City Council and other stakeholders continue to raise ongoing concerns about the potential long-term threat the dioxane plume poses to the city’s drinking water supply. “While efforts have been undertaken to ensure the safety of Ann Arbor’s drinking water, it is important that we update our state’s standards to reflect the latest science and use them to prevent any future adverse impact to their water supply,” Dingell wrote. “Given the fact that almost 85% of Ann Arbor’s drinking water comes from the Huron River, the community deserves to have confidence that the 1,4-dioxane plume will not ultimately contaminate the city’s primary drinking water source.” The current concerns in Ann Arbor stem from the use of 1,4-dioxane by Gelman Sciences, now owned by Pall Life Sciences, which incorporated the chemical in its manufacturing of medical filters on Wagner Road in Scio Township. Between 1966 and 1986, wastewater containing 1,4-dioxane was sprayed on its lawns and stored in unlined lagoons that has seeped through soil and rock layers into the groundwater and begun to spread in an ever-growing plume. The City of Ann Arbor and other stakeholders have taken steps to ensure drinking water is currently safe, including implementing a local ordinance prohibiting the use of groundwater in the city as a precautionary measure, but the city has been awaiting promised action by MDEQ for years. MDEQ has been working to develop revised cleanup standards for dioxane, as well as 300 other hazardous substances that are regulated by the state. Michigan is among the last states to address the issue, even though the state’s dioxane levels are among the highest in the country at 85 parts per billion, while the lowest state standards are at 3 parts per billion. “Lowering Michigan’s standard for 1,4-dioxane is an important improvement and will give Ann Arbor, as well as MDEQ, another important tool to hold Pall Life Sciences accountable for the cleanup that they caused many years ago,” Dingell continued. “It would also give citizens of the region greater confidence that every effort is being made to control this unfortunate contamination. We must all work together to control this situation and to prevent another situation like Flint from ever happening again.” The letter can be read here and below. February 18, 2016 The Honorable Keith Creagh Director Michigan Department of Environmental Quality P.O. Box 30473 Lansing, MI 48909 Dear Director Creagh: The Flint water crisis has caused many citizens in Michigan and throughout the country to look closely at environmental issues in their own communities and to seek assurances that the water they drink, the air they breathe, and the communities that they live in are safe. Unfortunately, many people have lost their trust in government at all levels, and we have a responsibility to assure the citizens of Michigan that we are vigilantly monitoring all public health and environmental issues. Hopefully, we all appreciate and understand why we must do this. As you are aware, the Mayor, City Council, numerous citizens, organizations and other elected officials in Ann Arbor have expressed concerns regarding the safety of the water in this community due to an unfortunate business practice from decades ago. This letter is to respectfully request that the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality (MDEQ) finalize stricter cleanup standards for 1,4-dioxane that reduces the permissible level of this contaminant in groundwater from the current standard of 85 parts per billion. MDEQ has been working for years to simultaneously develop revised cleanup standards for not only 1,4-dioxane, but also over 300 other hazardous substances that are regulated by the state. EPA updated its findings on 1,4-dioxane in 2010 and Michigan is one of the last states to address this issue. These reviews should be completed as quickly as possible. The current concerns in Ann Arbor stem from the use of an industrial solvent 1,4-dioxane by Gelman Sciences, now owned by Pall Life Sciences, which incorporated the chemical in its manufacturing of medical filters on Wagner Road in Scio Township. Between 1966 and 1986, wastewater containing 1,4-dioxane was sprayed on its lawns and stored in unlined lagoons that has seeped through soil and rock layers into the groundwater and begun to spread in an ever-growing plume. As science has changed and new research has emerged over the years, a debate has ensued as to what level of 1,4-dioxane is considered safe. While efforts have been undertaken to ensure the safety of Ann Arbor’s drinking water, it is important that we update our state’s standards to reflect the latest science and use them to prevent any future adverse impact to their water supply. Given the fact that almost 85% of Ann Arbor’s drinking water comes from the Huron River, the community deserves to have confidence that the 1,4-dioxane plume will not ultimately contaminate the city’s primary drinking water source. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has classified 1,4-dioxane as “likely to be carcinogenic in humans by all routes of exposure” and has recommended lower standards for health-based drinking water guidance values. While the EPA has not issued federal drinking water standards with respect to 1,4-dioxane levels, Michigan’s levels are currently among the highest in the country at 85 parts per billion while the lowest state standards are at 3 parts per billion. Michigan should be a leader in this area by reducing our levels to be more in line with the guidelines of other states and the EPA. While I am assured that the drinking water in Ann Arbor is currently safe because of steps taken by the city and other stakeholders, we all have a responsibility to the citizens we serve to remain vigilant and to respond quickly when the scientific evidence suggests it is in the public’s best interests to do so. Ann Arbor has implemented a local ordinance prohibiting the use of groundwater in the city as a precautionary measure, and they have closed several local wells over the years as a result. Lowering Michigan’s standard for 1,4-dioxane is an important improvement and will give Ann Arbor, as well as MDEQ, another important tool to hold Pall Life Sciences accountable for the cleanup that they caused many years ago. It would also give citizens of the region greater confidence that every effort is being made to control this unfortunate contamination. We must all work together to control this situation and to prevent another situation like Flint from ever happening again. The Ann Arbor community needs to understand when they can expect this rulemaking to lower the standards for 1,4-dioxane in groundwater to be finalized, as they have been anticipating it for some time. We urge you to do so as quickly as possible. We also need to continue to work with the Mayor, City Council, and other stakeholders in the region to assure them that the plume is being adequately monitored to prevent it from reaching their primary drinking water source. We are also copying Gina McCarthy, Administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, on this letter to request that they notify me and other local officials of any issues they are concerned about or aware of related to the safety of the drinking water in Ann Arbor. Thank you for your understanding of the need to lower the state standard for 1,4-dioxane to reflect the latest science. The Ann Arbor community has been awaiting this action for some time and they need a clear understanding for when the proposed standard will be issued and the timing for final implementation. Please let me and other officials from this community how we might assist you in any way. Sincerely, Debbie Dingell Member of Congress Cc: Gina McCarthy, Administrator, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
02.14.2016	DEARBORN, M.I. – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12), staff and friends today delivered valentines to veterans at the Ann Arbor VA Healthcare System and the John D. Dingell VA Medical Center in Detroit. Over the last two weeks, students from kindergarten to high school from the 12th Congressional District have been part of the Valentines for Veterans project, creating hundreds of handmade cards to show veterans how much they are loved. “One of the most important things we can do as a community is show the men and women who served our country how much we appreciate them,” said Dingell. “The valentines made by students in our region brought smiles to so many veterans today and reminded them that we are thinking of them, love them and will never forget their service.” After “Valentines for Veterans” received such an overwhelming response from veterans, schools and the community last year, Dingell launched the year-round “Sending Smiles to Vets” program, which engages young people on an ongoing basis to create cards and artwork for veterans. The program celebrates various seasons and holidays, including Independence Day, Veterans Day and Thanksgiving.
02.13.2016	DEARBORN, M.I. – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement on the passing of Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia. "John and I are saddened by the passing of Justice Antonin Scalia, who was a friend and distinguished figure on the Supreme Court for nearly 30 years. Though we did not agree with him on many of his decisions, Justice Scalia displayed an unwavering patriotism and commitment to our country. He leaves behind a strong record of public service, and our thoughts and prayers are with his family during this difficult time."
02.09.2016	Dingell Statement on President’s Budget Request February 9, 2016 Contact: Peter Chandler 202-225-4071 peter.chandler@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement on President Obama’s Budget Request. “Today, the President laid out a bold plan that makes smart investments to promote economic growth and create jobs, while also reducing the deficit in a responsible manner. This is exactly the vision we need to make sure our country stays competitive in the future and that we continue to expand opportunities for working families across the country. “I’m especially pleased that the President’s budget request contains a new 10-year, $4 billion proposal to accelerate the development and adoption of connected and autonomous vehicle technologies. This is the future of the auto industry, and these technologies have the potential to save lives, decrease energy use, and transform transportation in this country. Investments like this one will help ensure that the research, development and testing of these products will be done right here in the United States and not overseas. We must ensure that Congress implements this plan so projects like the American Center for Mobility at the old Willow Run facility can be realized. “Other proposals in the budget request that deserve our support are the $1 billion for the President’s “moonshot” initiative on cancer research; full funding and a permanent reauthorization of the Land and Water Conservation Fund; and additional resources for the Pell Grant program to help make college more affordable. “Congress has a fundamental responsibility to conduct oversight of the executive branch. It is sad to hear that my colleagues on the House Budget Committee have refused to call a hearing where the Director of the Office of Management and Budget will testify regarding the President’s budget request. This refusal is without precedent, and as a member of the Budget Committee I hope my colleagues in the majority reconsider their decision so these new proposals can be fully examined in a public hearing.” ###
02.05.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and Congressman Fred Upton (MI-06) traveled to Southeast Michigan today to meet with patient groups, families, doctors and researchers to discuss the bipartisan 21st Century Cures Act (H.R. 6) and the hope it will bring to patients living with devastating diseases. The 21st Century Cures Act was approved overwhelmingly by the House of Representatives in July 2015 and is awaiting consideration in the Senate. “It was great to host Chairman Upton in Southeast Michigan to raise the drumbeat about 21st Century Cures,” said Dingell. “This truly bipartisan legislation transcends political parties and will benefit every family in Michigan and across the country. We heard heartbreaking stories from patients and family members of loved ones who passed away and how 21st Century Cures gives them hope for the future. These stories bring an even greater urgency to the need to develop the next generation of cures, and I will continue working with Chairman Upton to get this legislation signed into law. Every day that we wait is another day that cures don’t get to the patients who need them.” “21st Century Cures is all about providing hope for patients and their loved ones here in Michigan, and across the country,” said Upton. “Today’s roundtable was another opportunity to hear directly from those patients we’re fighting for, and to get the word out about our bipartisan efforts to get fast, safe, and innovative treatments out there for everyone. I want to thank Congresswoman Dingell for her hospitality, and her work on this vitally important initiative. As the Senate begins its committee process next week, our quest for Cures continues.” Dingell and Upton met with patient groups and families at the University of Michigan Dearborn, including Tammi Carr, whose 5-year-old son Chad Carr passed away in November following a courageous battle against Diffuse Intrinsic Pontine Giloma (DIPG), a difficult to treat pediatric brain tumor for which there is currently no cure. Following the roundtable, they traveled to the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor for a discussion with leading doctors and researchers to learn how their work will be impacted by 21st Century Cures. University of Michigan President Mark Schlissel joined the group for the discussion. Upton and Congresswoman Diana DeGette (CO-01) launched the 21st Century Cures initiative to speed up the discovery, development, and delivery of life-saving drugs and devices for diseases such as cancer, Alzheimer’s and diabetes. For more information about 21st Century Cures, please click here.
02.04.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and Congressman Tim Murphy (PA-18), co-chairs of the bipartisan Congressional Cancer Prevention Caucus, today joined scientists, doctors, advocates and industry experts to mark the 5th annual National Cancer Prevention Day. The event, hosted by Less Cancer, focused on the latest developments in the field of cancer prevention. “Every family knows the heartbreak of cancer,” said Dingell. “Today is an opportunity to re-double our efforts to prevent cancer from developing in the first place so we can give real hope to the 1.6 million Americans who will be diagnosed with cancer this year and the millions more who are already fighting this devastating disease. We need to keep moving towards a world where cancer is considered a preventable disease.” “Cancer has touched nearly every American family including my own,” said Murphy. “On National Cancer Prevention Day, we are here not only to celebrate stories of courage and survival, but work together on the Congressional Cancer Prevention Caucus to do all we can to stop cancer before it starts with increased education, awareness, and strong policies that will bring hope to the millions of Americans impacted by this disease.” Dingell and Murphy formed the Congressional Cancer Prevention Caucus in 2015 in collaboration with Bill Couzens, founder of National Cancer Prevention Day and Less Cancer. The caucus is a bipartisan forum to engage Members of Congress, their staff, the medical community, advocacy groups, academia and the public on lifestyle and environmental factors that can reduce cancer risk. It will seek to increase education and awareness and advance policy solutions that improve public health and help prevent cancer before it starts.
02.02.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today led a bipartisan coalition of 89 Representatives in sending a letter to the U.S. Treasury Department urging the rejection of an application by the Central States Pension Plan to cut retiree benefits by as much as 70 percent. The proposal is a result of the Multiemployer Pension Reform Act of 2014, which eroded a decades-long guarantee of pension benefits under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act by allowing distressed pension funds to cut retiree benefits in certain circumstances. If approved, the proposal would impact 273,000 current and future retirees, including an estimated 30,000 Michigan members. “This is an issue of fundamental fairness,” Dingell said. “These employees worked a lifetime thinking they would have a pension to retire on, and now they don’t know what they will live on. These cuts would have a devastating impact on workers, retirees, families and whole communities and we should make every effort to ensure workers receive the benefits they’ve earned.” Since 1955, the Central States Pension Fund has provided benefits for eligible employees of contributing employers that are signatories to collective bargaining agreements with various Teamster local unions. The fund covers workers and retirees from more than 1,500 trucking, construction, and other companies in 37 states. On September 25, 2015, Central States leadership filed an application with the Treasury Department to seek approval for a pension rescue plan under the new Multiemployer Pension Reform Act. Treasury is expected to make a decision on the proposal by May 2016. If approved, the fund’s roughly 407,000 members will vote on the benefit reductions; however, Treasury can implement a benefit reduction plan regardless of beneficiary vote for “systemically important plans.” “We do not believe placing an inordinate burden on middle-class workers and retirees is the only option for Central States,” Dingell and her colleagues wrote in the letter. “For these reasons and more, we urge the Treasury Department to deny this application and move forward with a more equitable solution.” Dingell is also a cosponsor of HR 2844, the Keep Our Pension Promises Act, which would close several tax loopholes to help shore up at-risk multiemployer pension plans to help ensure that retirees get the benefits they deserve. Other Members signing the letter are: Alma Adams (D-NC); Brad Ashford (D-NE); Karen Bass (D-CA); Joyce Beatty (D-OH); Sanford Bishop (D-GA); Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR); Robert A. Brady (D-PA); Corrine Brown (D-FL); Julia Brownley (D-CA); Cheri Bustos (D-IL); G.K. Butterfield (D-NC); Michael Capuano (D-MA); Tony Cardenas (D-CA); Andre Carson (D-IN); Matt Cartwright (D-PA); Katherine Clark (D-MA); Yvette D. Clarke (D-NY); Emanuel Cleaver, II (D-MO); Steve Cohen (D-TN); John Conyers (D-MI); Rosa DeLauro (D-CT); Ted Deutch (D-FL); Lloyd Doggett (D-TX); Daniel M. Donovan, Jr. (R-NY); Mike Doyle (D-PA); Tammy Duckworth (D-IL); Keith Ellison (D-MN); Elizabeth Esty (D-CT); Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE); Bill Foster (D-IL); Lois Frankel (D-FL); Tulsi Gabbard (D-HI); Ruben Gallego (D-AZ); John Garamendi (D-CA); Scott Garrett (R-NJ); Gwen Graham (D-FL); Al Green (D-TX); Gene Green (D-TX); Raul Grijalva (D-AZ); Alcee Hastings (D-FL); Brian Higgins (D-NY); Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC); Mike Honda (D-CA); Hakeem Jeffries (D-NY); Henry C. “Hank” Johnson (D-GA); Walter B. Jones (R-NC); Marcy Kaptur (D-OH); William Keating (D-MA); Robin Kelly (D-IL); Dan Kildee (D-MI); Ann Kirkpatrick (D-AZ); Barbara Lee (D-CA); Ted Lieu (D-CA); Dan Lipinski (D-IL); Zoe Lofgren (D-CA); Alan Lowenthal (D-CA); Michelle Lujan Grisham (D-NM); Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA); Sean Patrick Maloney (D-NY); Betty McCollum (D-MN); Ann McLane Kuster (D-NH); Grace Meng (D-NY); Gwen Moore (D-WI); Patrick Murphy (D-FL); Jerry Nadler (D-NY); Rick Nolan (D-MN); Donald Norcross (D-NJ); Donald M. Payne, Jr. (D-NJ); Scott Peters (D-CA); Collin C. Peterson (D-MN); Mark Pocan (D-WI); Bobby Rush (D-IL); Tim Ryan (D-OH); Jan Schakowsky (D-IL); Adam Schiff (D-CA); David Scott (D-GA); Jose Serrano (D-NY); Kyrsten Sinema (D-AZ); Adam Smith (D-WA); Dina Titus (D-NV); Paul Tonko (D-NY); Chris Van Hollen (D-MD); Nydia Velazquez (D-NY); Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL); Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ); Peter Welch (D-VT); Frederica Wilson (D-FL); John Yarmuth (D-KY). The letter can be read here and below. Mr. Kenneth Feinberg Special Master for Implementation U.S. Department of the Treasury MPRA Office (Attn: Deva Kyle) 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Room 1224 Washington, DC 20220 RE: TREAS-D0-2015-0009-0001 Dear Special Master Feinberg, We write today on behalf of the thousands of retirees and the families we represent in strong opposition to the reduction in benefits proposed by the Board of Trustees of the Central States, Southeast and Southwest Areas Pension Plan (Central States Pension Plan) (CSPF), which has submitted an application to the Treasury Department to reduce benefits under the CSPF in accordance with the Multiemployer Pension Reform Act of 2014 (MPRA). The proposed cuts by Central States will affect about 270,000 people with a significant number of those retirees facing severe cuts of 50-70 percent. Pension benefits are hard earned by workers over a lifetime of labor and commitment. These cuts will have a dire impact not on only individual workers and retirees, but their entire communities as well. In addition, we have serious concerns that government safety net programs will increasingly be the only option left for families who will face a drastic reduction in their purchasing power. We do not believe placing an inordinate burden on middle-class workers and retirees is the only option for Central States. For these reasons and more, we urge the Treasury Department to deny this application and move forward with a more equitable solution. Thank you for your consideration of our views on this important matter. Please do not hesitate to contact us if we may be of assistance. Sincerely,
02.01.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and Congressman Tim Walberg (MI-07) today announced that the River Raisin National Battlefield Park was awarded a $21,000 grant from the National Park Service (NPS). Administered as part of the NPS's Centennial Challenge program to improve visitor services and outreach, this new grant will help the River Raisin National Battlefield Park conduct a hands-on maritime camp for students from underrepresented communities. “The events at River Raisin marked a significant turning point in the War of 1812 that helped shape our nation’s history,” said Dingell. “Two hundred years later, the River Raisin National Battlefield Park stands as a lasting tribute to the soldiers who died there and a reminder of the courage and resilience of the American people. This grant will provide more students an opportunity to learn about this important chapter in our history, and I look forward to working with Congressman Walberg to ensure Americans can visit this site for decades to come.” “The River Raisin National Battlefield Park has done tremendous work to preserve the memory and sacrifice of those early patriots who fought and died during the War of 1812 to secure the freedoms of a fledgling nation. Thanks to this grant, more students in Monroe County and beyond will have the opportunity to visit and learn about this important chapter in American history. I'm grateful for Congresswoman Dingell's continued efforts to support the River Raisin National Battlefield Park and encourage more people to visit this historical site,” said Walberg.
01.28.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – With Valentine’s Day approaching, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) is reminding local students to participate in the “Valentines for Veterans” project by making handmade valentine cards for local veterans. Last year, students across the region created more than 2,500 cards to show veterans how much they are loved and appreciated. “We need your help again on this important project to s how our veterans that we love them as much as they love our country,” said Dingell. The cards will be delivered over the Valentine’s Day weekend by Congresswoman Dingell and friends to both the John D. Dingell VA Medical Center and the Ann Arbor VA. Those who wish to participate may drop off artwork at Dingell’s Michigan offices anytime between now and Thursday, February 11th or call the Dearborn office at 313-278-2936 to arrange for pickup. Dearborn Office 19855 West Outer Drive Suite 103-E Dearborn, MI 48124 Ypsilanti Office 301 West Michigan Avenue Suite 400 Ypsilanti, MI 48197 After “Valentines for Veterans” received such an overwhelming response from veterans, schools and the community last year, Dingell launched the year-round “Sending Smiles to Vets” program, which engages young people on an ongoing basis to create cards and artwork for veterans. The program celebrates various seasons and holidays, including Independence Day, Veterans Day and Thanksgiving.
01.25.2016	DEARBORN, M.I. – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement after Ford Motor Company announced it would cease all operations in Japan, underscoring the need for meaningful protections against currency manipulation in the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) agreement to protect the American auto industry and its workers: “Japan is the most closed auto market in the world, and until our trade agreements meaningfully address currency manipulation, the mother of all trade barriers, American companies will continue to be threatened and disadvantaged by foreign governments who attempt to tilt the global playing field in favor of their industries and against the United States. The TPP’s lack of any meaningful currency protections means that it will be more of the same. We need our government to fight for companies in the global marketplace in the same manner as some other countries do. This business decision by Ford is further evidence of the impact of unfair currency manipulation.” Dingell has repeatedly called on the Administration to include strong, enforceable measures against currency manipulation in the TPP.
01.20.2016	DETROIT, M.I. – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today joined President Obama for a tour of the 2016 North American International Auto Show in Detroit, where the President saw firsthand the remarkable progress made by the American auto industry. “Today, the President saw firsthand that the American auto industry is back, booming and stronger than ever,” said Dingell. “When President Obama took office, we were faced with the very real possibility that there might not be an auto show in 2016. Thanks to the investment he made in the auto industry – and the hard work, grit and determination of the American auto worker – the industry is back and leading the world with developments in research, innovation and technology. It was an honor to be able to thank the President for his leadership in ensuring we maintained that strength and show him that the bet he made on the American auto industry paid off – Michigan and the U.S. will remain in the driver’s seat when it comes to building the best, most innovative cars and trucks in the world.”
01.19.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) stated tonight that the State of Michigan’s announced support for the American Center for Mobility (ACM) at the former Willow Run plant is a significant step toward ensuring southeast Michigan stays in the driver’s seat in automotive technology: “This investment from the State of Michigan is another significant step in keeping Michigan at the forefront of advanced vehicle technology. We want to make sure that we’re developing the technology of the future here in Michigan, and connected and automated vehicles have the potential to revolutionize transportation over the next decade. This investment shows that the state will continue to lead the way in research, development and deployment of these new technologies, and we will continue to work with leaders in both state and federal government, the auto industry, the University of Michigan, and other stakeholders to move this project forward. This is one of my top priorities.”
01.16.2016	DEARBORN, MI - Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement on the release of five American prisoners held by Iran, including Amir Hekmati from Michigan. “The announcement that Amir Hekmati is one of the Americans on their way home from Iran is a beacon of hope. The five Americans released today were held unjustly by the Iranian government. The Hekmati family never gave up hope, and the families of all five Americans will finally be able to welcome their loved ones home. “I commend President Obama and his administration for securing their freedom and particularly commend my colleague, Dan Kildee for his relentless efforts to secure Amir's release. The U.S. must continue to press for the release of American Bob Levinson, and our prayers and support go to his family today knowing how difficult today must be for them. May they have the strength and determination they need to endure this fight for their loved one.”
01.16.2016	DEARBORN, MI - Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement after President Obama approved a disaster declaration for Flint. Dingell joined her Michigan colleagues yesterday in urging the President to support the State of Michigan's request for federal disaster assistance without delay. "Thank you to President Obama for recognizing the seriousness of the Flint situation and moving with critical speed to grant the disaster declaration for Flint. Clean and safe drinking water is a basic human right, and his actions today will provide federal resources necessary for this catastrophe, which has put the health of all Flint residents at risk, with the most devastating potential impact on its children. "We should all recognize that this Administration moved with unprecedented speed to respond, within 36 hours of receiving the request. The Michigan Congressional delegation is committed and dedicated to working in a bipartisan manner to support those who have championed this issue for the residents of Flint. Now it is vital that the federal, state and local governments work together focusing on the immediate issue at hand - making sure Flint residents are safe. We must ensure that no community in America ever experiences this again. "I want to particularly commend my colleague, Congressman Dan Kildee, a Flint resident himself, for his leadership in mobilizing all of us for this tragedy in his community."
01.14.2016	DETROIT M.I. – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today released the following statement after Department of Transportation (DOT) Secretary Anthony Foxx unveiled a 10-year, nearly $4 billion proposal in President Obama’s Fiscal Year 2017 budget that would accelerate the development and adoption of automated vehicles. “Today, Secretary Foxx laid out a bold vision to ensure that Michigan and the United States remain in the driver’s seat when it comes to developing connected vehicle technologies, which have the potential to save lives, decrease energy use and transform transportation in this country. As demonstrated at the North American International Auto Show this week, these products are already being researched, designed and developed in southeast Michigan, and this investment will ensure this work continues well into the future. “This proposed increase in funding and the new policy guidance on autonomous vehicles will also help accelerate critical projects like the proposal to convert the former Willow Run plant into an autonomous vehicle testing facility. Willow Run is a perfect testing site with infrastructure already in place, a connection to Mcity at the University of Michigan, close proximity to research and development for companies and Michigan’s four seasons, which will make for more realistic testing conditions. We will work hard to ensure Congress steps up and implements this budget proposal so the Willow Run testing facility and other projects critical for Michigan can become a reality. This represents an historic opportunity for members of both parties to come together to support and enhance the auto industry’s comeback and help create more cutting-edge jobs in our state. This will be among my top priorities moving forward.”
01.13.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today accompanied Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Jeh Johnson on a visit to Michigan, which included a roundtable with Iraqi and Syrian refugees, a meeting with Interfaith Student Groups at the University of Michigan-Dearborn and an address to the student body. “It was an honor for Michigan to host Secretary Johnson today, who reminded us that homeland security starts with hometown security, and that we are all stronger when we work together,” Dingell said. “This starts with respecting and promoting the great cultural and religious diversity in this country, and specifically in Southeast Michigan. Secretary Johnson meeting with refugee families helped remind all of us about the importance of upholding our values as Americans and opening our arms to people who are fleeing violence and persecution around the world. “He also urged us to work together within our communities to combat violent extremism, which threatens us all. Our community is one of the most diverse and inclusive in the country, and we all have a responsibility to pull together to create safer, more secure neighborhoods for our families, not just now but into the future. Today’s visit was an important reminder that we are all Americans and we cannot allow fear to divide us.”
01.12.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today released the following statement in response to the President’s State of the Union address: “Tonight, in his final State of the Union address, the President reminded the American people how strong we are and how far we’ve come. He reminded us that ‘We the People’ means all and urged us to focus on what unites us – a commitment to hard work, an enduring courage, and the same grit and determination that helped us overcome the worst economic downturn since the Great Depression and set our country on a path to a brighter, more innovative, and more secure future. “As we continue working together to move our country forward, we must not forget our progress or take for granted the hard work that helped us reach this point. When the President took office seven years ago, our country was losing 800,000 jobs a month, too many Americans had to choose between buying groceries and providing healthcare for their families, and the American auto industry was in crisis. Today, our country is experiencing record job growth, 17 million Americans have healthcare coverage for the first time, and the American auto industry has come roaring back, ending 2015 with record-breaking sales. “This is a true American comeback story, yet more progress is needed to ensure every American has a shot at their own comeback. Tonight, the President rightly reaffirmed our responsibility to ensure that young people aren’t burdened by crushing student loan debt and that families don’t face financial hardship because their child gets sick or they need to take time off to care for a loved one. We must continue working to ensure American families have the tools and support they need to get ahead and build a secure future. “We also must continue to innovate, which is why it was so important that the President highlighted the comeback of the auto industry. Now the industry is poised to enter a new era with connected and autonomous vehicles, and it is critical that we continue to make investments in this area so the testing and development of these technologies stay in the United States. As we saw at the North American International Auto Show, Michigan is still in the driver’s seat when it comes to producing and designing next-generation vehicles and I cannot wait to see the President there next week. Many promising new technologies have the potential to completely transform transportation in this country and can increase safety and decrease energy use. We are already working to convert the former Willow Run plant in Ypsilanti into a testing facility for autonomous vehicles. We’re going to be working hard to ensure the U.S. continues to build, test and debut the most innovative cars and trucks in the world and make sure that the auto industry, the backbone of the American economy, continues to thrive. “These are not Democratic or Republican priorities. It will require teamwork and all of us pulling together to cross the finish line, which is something our guests at tonight’s State of the Union know something about. Coach Jim Harbaugh and his wife Sarah are true inspirations. Coach Harbaugh inspires his team to work together every day and embodies hard work, determination and teamwork. He represents the best of what this country is and should be, and that’s something we need more of in Congress. I look forward to working with all of my colleagues to continue our American comeback story.”
01.11.2016	Representatives Huizenga, Kaptur, Lawrence, Dingell, Trott and Bishop at the Ford exhibit at the North American International Auto Show. WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and a bipartisan coalition of Members of Congress today toured the North American International Auto Show in Detroit, reaffirming their commitment to working together to grow the economy and promote automotive and manufacturing jobs in the United States. “Today is always an important day as policymakers and members of the media witness firsthand that Detroit and Michigan remain in the driver’s seat when it comes to innovation and next-generation vehicle technology,” said Dingell. “The energy on the floor today was palpable, and it was both educational and fun to be with my colleagues in witnessing what hard work, grit and determination can accomplish. The cars are fun, fuel-efficient, and environmentally the cleanest they’ve ever been. There is something for every consumer and many of the cars are sexy to boot. We are going to be working hard together to ensure that the most innovative cars and trucks in the world continue to be built and debuted here in the U.S.” Dingell was joined by Representatives Mike Bishop (MI-8), Bill Huizenga (MI-02), Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Brenda Lawrence (MI-14), Sandy Levin (MI-09), David Trott (MI-11) and Fred Upton (MI-06) for a tour of the Ford, FCA, General Motors, Honda, Hyundai and Toyota exhibits.
01.06.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today voted against legislation that would dismantle the Affordable Care Act, taking away affordable health coverage from 22 million Americans and stripping live-saving cancer screenings from women across the country. “It is disappointing that we are starting 2016 with the 62nd vote to repeal or undermine the Affordable Care Act. I know my friends on the other side of the aisle don’t want to go back to the days when people were denied care because they had a pre-existing condition. They don’t want to charge women more for health care simply because they are women or prohibit young adults from staying on their parents plan until age 26. I know my friends don’t want to reinstate annual and lifetime caps on insurance policies. Yet that is exactly what would happen if this bill were to be signed into law. “Today, the ACA is working to provide 22 million Americans with access to health insurance. I am the first to admit that the law is not perfect – the last perfect law that was written was the 10 commandments. We should be having a real discussion about how the law should be improved rather than the false discussion we are having today.”
12.18.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today continued a Dingell holiday tradition, releasing the 2015 edition of the annual Dingell Jingle. Full text of the jingle can be read below. ‘Twas the day the House finally finished its business We passed a budget! In time for Christmas! Unfortunately Congress waited until the last minute But thankfully Rubio didn’t get his way in the Senate Now as we head home for holiday cheer and reflection It’s time to continue an important Dingell tradition Year after year, amid clanking and clatter John Dingell wrote a jingle about the issues that matter He wrote about the year’s highlights and what’s in fashion Sometimes he even wrote about the Kardashians Now with the holiday season near Here is a poem that’s a reflection of a first year It’s true that being a freshman’s not always a dream Especially when you follow someone like the Dean But we share an approach not seen in a while We believe in working across the Congressional aisle The year’s been filled with challenges and treats We welcomed the Pope, who many wanted to meet We fought for American workers, to make families’ lives better Along the way, we may have ruffled the President’s feathers What Madonna said about Michigan wasn’t so nice Here’s hoping that next time she might think twice Our Speaker retired, and we thanked him for trying He worked hard and did well in between all the crying So began the search to fill the job no one wanted Enter Paul Ryan with a new beard he flaunted From highways to schools, the last month’s been busy Passing bills and making progress has left some quite dizzy As 2016 approaches, we have an important decision There’s fear that many will stand behind Trump’s vision In Michigan there’s another pressing concern Will the Wolverines have the victory they’ve earned To be sure, winning the Citrus Bowl is a must Happy holidays to you and your family, and in Harbaugh we trust
12.18.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today joined colleagues in the House to adopt, by a vote of 316 to 113, the fiscal year 2016 Omnibus Appropriations bill, which funds the government for 2016. “This comprehensive funding bill isn’t perfect, but it represents a bipartisan compromise that has many victories for America’s working families. “It provides critical funding increases, including a $2 billion increase in funding for medical research at the National Institutes of Health and up to $2 billion in funding to tear down blighted buildings, which is important for many Michigan communities. It includes a three year reauthorization and funding increase for the Land and Water Conservation Fund, our nation’s most vital conservation program which benefits literally every county in America; it includes $300 million for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative; permanent health care funding for 9/11 first responders; and a two-year delay of the ‘Cadillac’ tax on health plans, which matters to the working men and women of my district. In addition, I’d like to thank Chairman Hal Rogers and Ranking Member Nita Lowey of the Appropriations Committee for including a measure I have championed to allow the President to award the Medal of Honor to Vietnam veteran Charles Kettles, a resident of Ypsilanti. “There are flaws with this bill as well. I have concerns about lifting the longstanding ban on U.S. oil exports, which could result in higher gas prices in the United States. I am hopeful that the extension of the wind and solar tax credits will help counteract this by having a positive impact on our environment and energy independence while creating good paying jobs. We should have also used this legislation to address the economic crisis in Puerto Rico, and I trust the Speaker’s word that it will be addressed next year. I also continue to have serious concerns about the discriminatory changes being made to the visa waiver program, and will continue working to ensure we do not target anyone based on nationality or religion in this country. “This bill is a true compromise, and for me compromise is not a dirty word. It isn’t perfect, but it avoids a government shutdown while providing for much needed investments in critical programs which will help improve the lives of many working families in Southeast Michigan and the nation, and therefore, it is worthy of our support.”
12.17.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement today on the Protecting Against Tax Hikes (PATH) Act. “For too long, Americans of all walks of life have faced uncertainty about whether they would be able to receive important tax benefits that had been scheduled to expire. These benefits, like the earned income tax credit for low-income earners, the child tax credit for families, the American Opportunity Tax Credit for college students, the research and development tax credit for businesses, and enhanced deductions for charitable givers all provide critical financial support and incentives to deserving Americans. “When we considered budget resolutions for FY16, Democrats and Republicans all agreed that these critical provisions should be extended, and we agreed any extension should be fully paid for as part of a tax reform package. Every budget proposal – from the conservative Republican Study Committee budget to the liberal Progressive Caucus budget – assumed these provisions would be offset. “Unfortunately, this bill does not pay for the cost of making the tax cuts permanent. It violates the fundamental principal that we must pay for the cost of permanent tax changes, and as a result, it would add $622 billion to our nation’s debt. “As a Budget Committee member, I take seriously our commitment to being good stewards of our nation’s finances. While we should make permanent most of the expiring provisions, especially the ones mentioned above, we shouldn’t do it at a price of $622 billion that is not paid for. “Reducing revenue levels to historic lows risks future cuts to critical programs like Social Security and Medicare. While this bill may be providing critical tax incentives for important causes – like encouraging scientific research – the debt we will incur to finance these tax breaks will eventually force us to make spending cuts that will hurt non-defense discretionary spending, which includes funding for job training programs, scientific research, Head Start, and countless other critical programs; programs that are already funded at the lowest level since 1962. We cannot risk further cuts to these programs. “Americans should have the certainty to plan their household budgets, business expenditures, and charitable giving. But, there is also a need to pay for the cost of this tax package. The bill today violates the budget principles nearly all of us agreed to just months ago, and therefore I could not support it. We need to have a real debate on tax reform and on how to responsibly make permanent these worthy provisions for working families, students, businesses, and donors.”
12.17.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and U.S. Senators Gary Peters (MI) and Debbie Stabenow (MI) today announced that legislation they introduced, which would allow Major Charles S. Kettles of Ypsilanti to be awarded the Medal of Honor, will move forward as part of the fiscal year 2016 government funding bill. The legislation was introduced in November following a request from the Ypsilanti Rotary Veterans History Project to review Major Kettles’ actions during the Vietnam War. Upon review, Secretary of Defense Ashton Carter determined that Major Kettles’ actions merited the nation’s highest military honor, but because the statute of limitations has passed, Congressional action is required. The legislation waives the time limitation and allows the President to make the final decision. It is expected to be considered in the House and Senate on Friday. “Major Kettles is a true American hero, who courageously risked his life to ensure no soldier was left behind,” said Congresswoman Dingell. “His bravery, determination and unwavering commitment to his fellow servicemembers exemplify the highest values of the United States military, and it has been my honor to work with Senator Peters and Senator Stabenow to ensure his contributions to our country are properly honored.” “Major Kettles went above and beyond the call of duty with his selfless and heroic actions that saved the lives of his fellow soldiers,” said Senator Peters, a former Lieutenant Commander in the U.S. Navy Reserve. “I’m pleased to work with Congresswoman Dingell and Senator Stabenow to recognize Major Kettles’ exemplary service and help ensure he is awarded the Medal of Honor he deserves.” “Decades ago, Michigan’s own Major Kettles courageously went back into enemy territory to save the lives of 44 of his fellow servicemen,” said Senator Stabenow. “This legislation will help make sure Major Kettles is awarded the Medal of Honor without delay and will recognize the true selflessness and bravery of his actions in Vietnam.” On May 15, 1967, after an airborne infantry unit was ambushed in the Song Tra Cau riverbed in Vietnam by the North Vietnamese Army, Major Kettles led three flights into extremely hostile territory to deliver supplies, reinforcements, and evacuate the wounded and trapped. During the final flight, shortly after leaving the landing zone, Major Kettles was informed that eight soldiers remained on the ground. Without hesitating, he returned on his own, without regard for his own safety and with no other support, to rescue the remaining men. All totaled on that day, his actions saved the lives of 40 soldiers and 4 crew members from the 176th Aviation Company after their helicopter was destroyed. For his voluntary action above and beyond the call of duty, Major Kettles was awarded the Distinguished Service Cross in 1968. In 2012, a local campaign was launched by William Vollano, a coordinator with the Veterans History Project, and Major Kettles’ family to upgrade his award to the Medal of Honor. A number of men from his company and the 101st Airborne Division sent letters validating his heroic actions, and last year former Congressman John D. Dingell sent a letter to the Secretary of Defense asking for reconsideration of the United States of America’s highest military honor. In reviewing the facts, Secretary Carter agreed that Major Kettles’ actions merited the Medal of Honor.
12.16.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today thanked negotiators for preventing a poison-pill policy rider from being included in the fiscal year 2016 government funding bill that would have exempted electronic cigarettes from regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). In August, following numerous reports of injuries caused by defective electronic cigarettes, Dingell wrote a letter to FDA Acting Commissioner Dr. Stephen Ostroff urging him to finalize a proposed rule to regulate the products as soon as possible. Dingell’s constituent, Sgt. Jason Diekman of Wyandotte, was among those injured this summer when an exploding electronic cigarette badly burned his arms and abdomen. “Consumers deserve to know that the products they buy are safe for use,” said Dingell. “Such assurances currently do not exist for electronic cigarettes, and I am pleased that by stopping this damaging proposal, negotiators have helped pave the way for improvements in consumer safety. Now that this roadblock has been averted, the FDA must move as quickly as possible to finalize the proposed rule and protect public health.” The proposed rule issued by the FDA would deem electronic cigarettes to be subject to FDA authority, meaning they would be regulated in the same manner as which the agency currently regulates cigarettes. Manufacturers of electronic cigarettes would be required to register with the agency, report product and ingredient listings, and include health warnings and minimum age restrictions. The policy rider being pushed in the House of Representatives would have exempted electronic cigarettes that are already on the market from being retroactively reviewed for safety once the rule is approved. In her August letter, Dingell urged the FDA to maintain a provision in the final rule that would require pre-market approval of any electronic cigarette that was on the market after February 15, 2007.
12.11.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Following reports that surgeries have resumed at the VA Ann Arbor Healthcare System, Representatives Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and Tim Walberg (MI-07) are seeking assurances that the surgeries are not being conducted in unsafe conditions. In November, Dingell wrote to Director Robert P. McDivitt following reports that surgeries for veterans had been canceled or moved to another facility because particulate matter was observed on sterile surgical equipment. This week, Dingell’s office was notified by concerned constituents that surgeries have resumed despite the continued presence of particulate matter on the equipment. “Patient safety must be the top priority at the VA Ann Arbor Healthcare System,” Dingell and Walberg wrote in a letter today to Director McDivitt. “We want to work with you to ensure that you have the resources you need to fix this problem as soon as possible, and we want to be partners with you in this effort. We also want to seek your assurances that the safety of patients continues to be your top priority and that surgeries are not being conducted in unsafe conditions.” The full text of the letter is available here and below. December 11, 2015 Mr. Robert P. McDivitt Director VA Ann Arbor Healthcare System 2215 Fuller Road Ann Arbor, MI 48105 Dear Director McDivitt: Thank you for taking the time to speak with us today. We write as strong supporters of the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs’ mission to care for those who have made numerous sacrifices for our nation. Subsequent to our conversation today, and following Congresswoman Dingell’s letter on November 23, 2015, we understand you have been working to identify the source of particulate matter that is being observed on surgical equipment and have taken steps to remedy the situation. Meanwhile, we have received calls telling us that surgeries have resumed despite the continued presence of particulate matter on surgical equipment. Patient safety must be the top priority at the VA Ann Arbor Healthcare System. We want to work with you to ensure that you have the resources you need to fix this problem as soon as possible, and we want to be partners with you in this effort. Please let us know how we can assist you. We also want to seek your assurances that the safety of patients continues to be your top priority and that surgeries are not being conducted in unsafe conditions. We look forward to receiving your prompt response. Sincerely, Debbie Dingell Member of Congress Tim Walberg Member of Congress
12.11.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today voted against H.R. 644, a customs enforcement bill, which includes a number of political provisions that restrict negotiations on emissions standards and immigration and weaken existing law to deter human trafficking. Dingell spoke in opposition to the bill prior to the vote. Video is available here. The full text of Dingell’s floor speech can be read below. Mr. Speaker, when the Ways and Means Committee first began considering this bill, it represented a real opportunity to improve our system of trade and eliminate loopholes that allow foreign nations and bad actors to avoid our trade laws. Currency manipulation is the number one trade abuse that must be addressed. Unfortunately, this bill has become the Christmas tree of the holiday season, and it is being used to put lipstick on a pig that is our current trade negotiations. It ties our negotiators hands on even negotiating common emissions standards by restricting any consideration of climate issues, and prevents them from negotiating immigration related language as well. Further, it weakens existing trade laws designed to prevent human trafficking. And the ribbon on this Christmas surprise is a totally new provision on internet taxation that isn’t even in the jurisdiction of the Ways and Means Committee and could have unintended consequences that could bankrupt local governments. There are good provisions at the core of this bill to help improve our customs system, but they are outweighed by the political gamesmanship that has made this legislation impossible to support. We have seen too many other examples of last minute political provisions inserted in bills over the years, and we risk unintended consequences of these political provisions as well. Thank you, and I yield back the balance of my time.
12.08.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Representatives Debbie Dingell (MI-12), John Conyers, Jr. (MI-13), Dan Kildee (MI-05), and Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) released the following joint statement on H.R. 158, the “Visa Waiver Program Improvement and Terrorist Travel Prevention Act,” which would, among other things, prevent dual nationals of Iraq and Syria, or individuals who have traveled to these countries, from participating in the Visa Waiver Program. “The first responsibility of government is to keep the American people safe. The American people are rightfully concerned about the threat of terrorism following the attacks in Beirut, Paris and San Bernardino. Recently, Congress and the Administration have been examining changes to the Visa Waiver Program to ensure that there are not any vulnerabilities that could put the American people at risk. “There are many provisions of H.R. 158 that we support. Specifically, requiring all travelers under the Visa Waiver Program to have an unexpired, fraud-resistant electronic passport is an important security measure to take. We also support requiring the Secretary of Homeland Security to study further ways to incorporate anti-fraud and deception technology into the Visa Waiver Program. Both of these steps will help improve our security here at home. “However, we voted against the H.R. 158 today because we are concerned that the provisions in the legislation restricting the use of the visa waiver program to individuals who have travelled to Syria or Iraq or are dual nationals of these or other covered nations are discriminatory. These more controversial provisions have never been the subject of any committee hearing or markup and deserved more review and vetting before being considered on the House Floor. “We are also concerned that these provisions contain no exceptions for journalists, researchers, human rights investigators or other professionals. There is also an issue as to whether the new requirement will result in our partner nations placing new limits on travel by U.S. citizens to their own countries. “It is because of these concerns that numerous civil rights and civil liberties groups have expressed serious concerns or outright opposition to the overall legislation, including the ACLU, the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights, the NAACP, the American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee, the American Immigration Lawyers Association, the Council on American-Islamic Relations, the Arab-American Civil Rights League, Human Rights Watch, and the League of United Latin American Citizens, among others. “We hope that these provisions will face further review and consideration before being taken up by the Senate or included in any year-end legislation.”
12.06.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement on the President’s address on the tragedy in San Bernardino and the broader threat of terrorism. “The most fundamental duty of government is to keep the American people safe. Following the recent attacks in San Bernardino, Paris, Beirut and elsewhere, people in this country are understandably frightened, and tonight the President emphasized the urgent need to work together within our communities and alongside our allies around the world to defeat and destroy terror groups and all they stand for. "It was critical that the President emphasized our values as Americans. He urged us to focus on what unites us, not what divides us – to not stigmatize our Muslim friends and neighbors, but to come together around our common ideals as Americans to combat this growing threat. If we allow fear to cause hate and division, we allow terrorism to win. As the President said, we must not forget what makes us exceptional. Freedom is more powerful than fear and we all must work together diligently to prevent another attack from happening in the United States and stand united against hate and terror, which threatens us all.”
12.03.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today said Congress has taken a step in the right direction to fix the nation’s roads. H.R. 22, Fixing America’s Surface Transportation Act, reauthorizes highway, bridge, transportation safety and public transit projects for five years. The measure provides $281 billion in guaranteed funding for these programs, including $5.58 billion for Michigan – an increase of more than $495 million from current levels. The legislation also reauthorizes the Export-Import Bank for four years, which plays a vital role in helping Michigan businesses compete and succeed in the global economy. “Today, Congress took a first step towards fixing our nation’s aging infrastructure,” said Dingell. “Instead of kicking the can down the road, this legislation begins to provide the certainty needed to plan for the future, invest in Michigan’s crumbling roads and bridges, and jumpstart stalled construction projects. This is a good start, but we need to do more to fully address the challenge of our crumbling infrastructure. “I am also pleased that Congress finally acted to reauthorize the Export-Import Bank, which levels the playing field for American workers and businesses by helping them export their products overseas and create jobs at home.” Since coming to Congress, Dingell has called for the reauthorization of the Ex-Im Bank to support American manufacturing jobs. In October, she signed a “discharge petition” that forced a vote to revive the Ex-Im Bank on the floor. This summer, Dingell visited Hancock Enterprises, Inc. in Taylor and Polytorx, LLC in Ann Arbor to highlight the critical role the Ex-Im Bank plays in helping Michigan manufacturers compete in the global economy. The bipartisan conference report includes a number of other key provisions, including: Increasing American manufacturing jobs by strengthening Buy America requirements; Increasing the percentage of funds within the Surface Transportation Program that flow directly to local regions, a top priority of local communities; and Promoting 21st century vehicles, including by requiring the DOT to designate national electric vehicle charging and hydrogen, propane, and natural gas fueling corridors to identify the near and long-term investments needed to support vehicles of the future.
12.02.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today supported S. 1177, the Every Student Succeeds Act, bipartisan legislation that will improve K-12 education and replace the broken No Child Left Behind law. The agreement is a compromise between the U.S. Senate and House of Representatives reached after months of negotiations, and is the first update to federal education law since No Child Left Behind in 2002. The bill now moves to the Senate for approval before being sent to the President for his signature. “This legislation is a win for students, teachers and parents in Southeast Michigan and across the country,” said Dingell. “It ushers in a new chapter in improving our nation’s schools by finally fixing No Child Left Behind, which has been broken for too long. It encourages educational innovation, invests in early learning, helps improve low-performing schools, and allows flexibility at the local level while requiring the high standards our children deserve. This bipartisan compromise is a powerful example of what happens when we put partisanship aside and work together. We need more of this, and I hope it is just the beginning of a new era where we work together to solve our country’s problems.” The bipartisan conference agreement includes a number of key provisions: • Repeals the one-size-fits-all “adequate yearly progress” federal accountability system and replaces it with a statewide accountability system; • Maintains important information about student performance; • Helps states to improve low-performing schools; • Improves accountability for learning outcomes for all students; • Targets funds to at-risk children; • Helps states increase teacher quality; and • Provides greater funding flexibility to enhance support for students and schools. The legislation is supported by a broad cross-section of organizations, including the National Education Association, the American Federation of Teachers, National Governors Association, National School Boards Association, National Alliance for Public Charter Schools, STEM Education Coalition, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, Business Roundtable, The Education Trust, The Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights, National Council of La Raza, Democrats for Education Reform, and National Center for Learning Disabilities.
11.25.2015	DEARBORN, MI – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today released the following statement encouraging Southeast Michigan residents to participate in Small Business Saturday, which is this Saturday, November 28. “Michigan is home to more than 850,000 small businesses that play a key role in creating jobs and supporting our local economies. Small business owners are our friends and neighbors, and their businesses – from the local hardware store to our favorite restaurants and bookstores – are part of the fabric of our state and a large part of what makes our region such a special place to live. I will continue working in Congress on legislation that will help our small businesses grow and succeed, and this Saturday, I hope you will join me in heading to Main Street to support the small businesses you love.”
11.24.2015	DEARBORN, MI – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today announced that three Ann Arbor energy projects will receive more than $9.9 million from the Department of Energy’s (DOE) Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy (ARPA-E). The grants were awarded through the ARPA-E’s OPEN 2015 program and come in advance of the COP21 U.N. Climate Negotiations in Paris next week. Accio Energy, Inc. in Ann Arbor, and two projects at the University of Michigan were selected to receive funding. “Our scientists and engineers in Southeast Michigan are developing entirely new ways to generate, store and use energy,” said Dingell. “These cutting-edge technologies have the potential to solve some of our nation’s most pressing energy challenges, and this important investment will support efforts to combat climate change and enhance energy security around the globe.” ARPA-E funds innovative technologies that display promise for both technical and commercial impact, but are too early for private-sector investment. The OPEN 2015 projects come from 21 states and encompass 10 technical categories, including transportation, electricity generation and delivery and energy efficiency. Local projects receiving funding are below. For a full list of recipients, please click here. Accio Energy, Inc., Ann Arbor – $4,500,000 Project Title: EHD Innovative Low-Cost Offshore Wind Energy Accio Energy, Inc. will develop and demonstrate an Electrohydrodynamic (EHD) turbine-less wind energy system that harvests energy through physical separation of charge. The technology uses the wind to separate a mist of positively charged water droplets from excess electrons that form a high voltage direct current source. The team’s innovative approach could create an entirely new option for low-cost offshore wind. University of Michigan, Ann Arbor – $3,500,000 Project Title: Transitioning Advanced Ceramic Electrolytes into Manufacturable Solid-State EV Batteries The University of Michigan will develop new electrode structures and manufacturing techniques to incorporate Lithium (Li)-conducting ceramic electrolytes into solid-state batteries. Solid-state Li batteries could double the energy density of today’s Li-ion cells and also eliminate the use of conventional flammable electrolytes, increasing abuse tolerance and reducing the need for battery thermal management systems. University of Michigan, Ann Arbor – $1,923,845 Project Title: Split Micro-hybrid Boosting Enabling Highly Diluted Combustion The University of Michigan will develop a high-efficiency engine system that integrates a compact micro-hybrid configuration of a supercharger with an electric waste heat recovery system and employs high rates of recirculated exhaust gases. When combined with sophisticated control strategy, this approach provides a solution for suboptimal engine breathing that is typical of transient engine operation. The performance is projected to match that of a naturally aspirated engine, and have a 20% increase in fuel efficiency compared to a turbocharged downsized engine, at a cost that is half that of a mild-hybrid system.
11.24.2015	DEARBORN, MI – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today sent a letter to VA Ann Arbor Healthcare System Director Robert P. McDivitt following reports that recent surgeries for veterans were canceled or moved to another facility because particulate matter was observed on sterile surgical equipment. The VA Ann Arbor Healthcare System was investigated in 2014 for a similar issue, and the U.S. Office of Special Counsel and the VA Inspector General later issued a report verifying that changes were made at the VA to solve the problem. “While recognizing you are cancelling and moving surgeries to ensure no veterans are being put at risk, this situation is still concerning and raises questions about the source of this particulate matter and what actions are being taken to correct the problem,” wrote Dingell. “We want to work with you to ensure you have the necessary resources to identify and rectify the problem so everyone can have the highest confidence in the condition of the facilities which our veterans rely on.” Dingell requested information about the status of construction of the new Sterile Supply Service area, which was a focus of the 2014 investigation, as well as steps and procedures put in place to ensure that patient safety is not compromised. “Our veterans have made numerous sacrifices for our nation, and we have an obligation to make sure they are properly cared for,” she continued. The full text of the letter is available here and below. November 23, 2015 Mr. Robert P. McDivitt Director VA Ann Arbor Healthcare System 2215 Fuller Road Ann Arbor, MI 48105 Dear Director McDivitt: Thank you for speaking to me earlier today in response to a phone call I received from a concerned party about the recent cancellation of surgeries for veterans at the VA Ann Arbor Healthcare System. It is my understanding that nurses in the operating room first began noticing particulate matter on sterile surgical equipment and, as a result of their vigilance and the administration’s actions to ensure the safety of all patients, surgeries have been cancelled or moved to the University of Michigan. Staff at the hospital deserves credit for their awareness and for recognizing and diligently reporting these incidents. While recognizing you are cancelling and moving surgeries to ensure no veterans are being put at risk, this situation is still concerning and raises questions about the source of this particulate matter and what actions are being taken to correct the problem. This situation is even more concerning in light of the fact that the U.S. Office of Special Counsel and the Veterans Affairs Office of the Medical Inspector investigated allegations of improper sterilization of surgical equipment at the Veterans Affairs Medical Center in Ann Arbor last year. We want to work with you to ensure you have the necessary resources to identify and rectify the problem so everyone can have the highest confidence in the condition of the facilities which our veterans rely on. Therefore, I respectfully request answers to the following questions. 1. To the best of your knowledge, what is the source of the particulate matter that is being seen on surgical equipment? What resources are you committing to this investigation? What outside expertise have you brought in to help identify the problem? 2. How many veterans have had surgeries cancelled or moved to another facility because of this issue? What actions are being taken to help facilitate those impacted by these changes? 3. What steps and procedures have you put in place to ensure that patient safety is not compromised at the Ann Arbor VA Medical Center? Please provide a detailed response. 4. The 2014 investigation by the Office of Special Counsel focused in part on the construction of the new Sterile Supply Service area. Has this construction been completed? Could this be the source of the particulate matter being seen on surgical equipment? How will this new area improve operations at the Ann Arbor VA Medical Center? 5. What is the penalty for a staff member who accidentally or purposefully contaminates sterile equipment? What policies and training procedures do you have in place for operating room staff to prevent these incidents from happening before they occur? 6. Do you have the resources you need to complete this investigation and to take remedial action to correct this problem? If not, what resources do you need to do a complete and thorough investigation? Thank you for your attention to these critical issues. Our veterans have made numerous sacrifices for our nation, and we have an obligation to make sure they are properly cared for. Your answers will help ensure that all appropriate actions are being taken to ensure this issue is properly addressed and that you have the resources you need to do the job. I look forward to receiving your response and working with you to ensure our veterans are receiving the highest level of care. Sincerely, Debbie Dingell Member of Congress
11.20.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12), ranking member of the Natural Resources Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee, expressed concerns this week about Chairman Rob Bishop’s (UT-01) draft legislation that would weaken and dramatically restructure the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF). Congress allowed the LWCF, the nation’s premier recreation and conservation program, to expire on September 30 for the first time in its 50 year history. Chairman Bishop’s proposal would end the LWCF’s historic flexibility to fund areas of greatest need. It would also distort the original intent of the law by restricting federal land acquisition to only 3.5 percent of annual LWCF funding and diverting 35 percent to non-conservation purposes. “I guess I have a very unique perspective here as the spouse of the man who wrote the original law,” Dingell said during the committee hearing. “Much has changed since then -- recreation demand has grown by leaps and bounds, and so have the development pressures on lands we need in our local, state, and federal parks and recreation areas…What hasn't changed, at least until now, is the flexibility Congress gave ourselves in that original LWCF Act to spend more or less money year by year to one LWCF program or another based on the most pressing real-time needs. Even back in the 1960's, Congress made use of that flexibility and adjusted the balance of state and federal spending from year to year.” For video of Dingell’s questions and answers from witnesses Kristen Sarri, Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of Policy Management and Budget at the Department of the Interior; and Travis Campbell, Chief Executive Officer at Far Bank Enterprises, please click here. Created by Congress in 1965, the LWCF has safeguarded natural areas, water resources and cultural heritage sites in every state in the country. In Michigan, LWCF money was used to support the acquisition of the 410 acre Humbug Marsh unit to the Detroit River International Wildlife Refuge. This investment protected the last mile of natural shoreline along the U.S. portion of the Detroit River, a deal Dingell said “never could have happened” without investment from the LWCF. Dingell is a cosponsor of H.R. 1814, legislation introduced by Natural Resources Ranking Member Raúl M. Grijalva, which would permanently reauthorize the LWCF. The legislation currently has 195 bipartisan cosponsors.
11.20.2015	DEARBORN, MI – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) introduced the Vehicle Innovation Act, legislation that will promote investments in research and development of clean vehicle technologies that will create more fuel-efficient vehicles, reduce our nation’s dependence on foreign oil and support American auto manufacturers and suppliers. Dingell recently announced the bill at Leggett and Platt Commercial Vehicle Products in Taylor, Michigan along with Senator Gary Peters, who introduced the companion bill in the Senate. “Michigan has always been a leader in the automotive industry, and our vehicle suppliers and manufacturers are already driving the future of high-tech, energy-efficient vehicles,” said Dingell. “The Vehicle Innovation Act will keep that progress going by building on successful research programs to improve vehicle efficiency – saving consumers money at the pump, improving our energy security and keeping the U.S. and Southeast Michigan at the forefront of vehicle innovation. I am proud to work with Senator Peters on this critical legislation that will ensure the cars and trucks of the future continue to be produced here in Michigan.” “The Motor & Equipment Manufacturers Association (MEMA) applauds Rep. Dingell for today’s introduction of the Vehicle Innovation Act,” said Steve Handschuh, President and Chief Executive Officer, of the Motor & Equipment Manufacturers Association. “This legislation encourages public-private partnerships that help motor vehicle suppliers innovate and develop new vehicle technologies for cars and trucks to be more fuel efficient with lower emissions. The programs in this bill will support domestic research and manufacturing activities and lead to greater consumer choice of vehicle technologies.” “The work truck industry relies on research and development of advanced technologies to compete in a global marketplace and continue to meet the needs of vocational truck owners and fleet managers,” said Steve Carey, Executive Director of NTEA-the Association for the Work Truck Industry. “NTEA thanks Representative Dingell for her leadership on this effort, which will drive research and promote public-private partnerships that will help the industry deploy more alternatively fueled trucks and support good paying jobs in Michigan and across the country.” “The Auto Alliance welcomes introduction of the Vehicle Innovation Act of 2015 by Representative Debbie Dingell,” said Mitch Bainwol, Auto Alliance President & CEO. “Long-term efforts to address our nation’s energy security and environmental concerns will require the mass market commercialization of advanced technology and alternative fuel vehicles. Automakers and our suppliers are focused on the introduction and deployment of these fuel-efficient vehicles. This legislation will help support these ongoing efforts as well as the research and design of the next generation of fuel-efficient vehicle technologies. We appreciate Rep. Dingell’s hard work on this important issue.” The Vehicle Innovation Act reauthorizes the Department of Energy’s Vehicle Technologies Office, which works with manufacturers and suppliers to research, develop and deploy advanced vehicle technologies that improve energy efficiency. Just this week the Vehicle Technologies Office announced a research partnership with the University of Michigan to study connected vehicles and whether they can help people drive more efficiently. The bill also provides the Department of Energy with clear direction to build on successful research programs, such as the SuperTruck program that has produced a model tractor trailer with 115 percent increase in fuel efficiency, and encourages the development and use of vehicle-to-vehicle (V2V) communications systems that have the potential to improve fuel efficiency and reduce traffic congestion.
11.18.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today joined with the University of Michigan and U.S. Department of Energy’s Vehicle Technologies Office to announce a new research project that will study connected vehicles and whether they can help people drive more efficiently. The $2.7 million investment from the Department of Energy will couple the expertise of the University of Michigan with the Department of Energy’s Argonne and Idaho National Laboratories. “The University of Michigan is already leading the way in vehicle innovation with the MCity Testing Facility, and this partnership will keep Michigan at the forefront of this progress,” said Dingell. “As we prepare for the future, it is critical that we understand how connected vehicles can improve vehicle efficiency, reduce our dependence on foreign oil and save consumers money at the pump so we can make sure these technologies continue to be developed and produced right here in Michigan.” “Nobody knows the magnitude of what the energy savings of connected and automated vehicles will be,” said U-M Mobility Transformation Center Director Peter Sweatman. “We’re going to actively collect the data to do that.” During the project, researchers will work with 500 privately-owned vehicles in the Ann Arbor area to collect information about how they are driven, including energy consumption, speed, and location. The study will examine how drivers interact with different technologies in connected vehicles, especially whether or not those technologies help them drive more efficiently. Argonne National Laboratory will provide modeling and simulation capabilities and develop a display module that the researchers will use to better understand driver behavior. Argonne’s Autonomie modeling tool is already one of the most widely-used pieces of software to understand how various technologies interact and influence efficiency. In addition, Idaho National Laboratory will provide guidance about data collection and analysis. Idaho is one of the main leads on the Advanced Vehicle Testing Activity, which has gathered data from hundreds of millions of miles of on-road testing.
11.16.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement on recent terror attacks around the world. “As this somber weekend comes to a close, our community and people around the world continue to grapple with the horrific events of recent weeks. The terror attacks in Sinai, Beirut, Baghdad and Paris have ripped at the hearts of every American and left us mourning hundreds of innocent lives, including three members of our community - Leila Taleb and Hussein Mostapha, parents of a three-year-old son from Dearborn, and Leila Mazloum, who had just returned to Beirut in an effort to bring her family to the United States. Our hearts ache for them and we offer our continued prayers and support to their families and everyone touched by this unconscionable brutality. “What the loss of Leila, Hussein and Leila makes so clear is that these horrific acts of violence were attacks on our own. They were attacks on freedom loving people around the world, and they were attacks on everything we stand for as Americans. In these days of darkness, may our friends and allies around the world know that they do not stand alone. We must stand united against acts of terror everywhere. We rededicate ourselves to the fight against terrorism and hate and we pledge our help and support to bring those responsible to justice and protect innocent lives around the globe.”
11.13.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today U.S. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and U.S. Senator Gary Peters (MI) visited Leggett and Platt Commercial Vehicle Products in Taylor to announce new legislation, the Vehicle Innovation Act that will be introduced in the House of Representatives next week. The bill will promote investments in research and development of clean vehicle technologies to create more fuel-efficient vehicles, reduce our nation’s dependence on foreign oil and support American auto manufacturers and suppliers. Peters and Dingell were joined by Ross Haith, President of Leggett and Platt Commercial Vehicle Products; Steve Carey, Executive Director of NTEA—the Association for the Work Truck Industry; and Dave Andrea, Senior Vice President and Chief Economist of the Original Equipment Suppliers Association, a division of the Motor & Equipment Manufacturers Association. “Our nation’s vehicle suppliers and manufacturers have made major advances in cutting-edge fuel efficiency technologies in the last decade, and we need to keep that progress going,” said Congresswoman Dingell. “The Vehicle Innovation Act will build on successful research programs that have resulted in large savings for consumers at the pump and keep the U.S. and Southeast Michigan in the lead in developing high-tech, energy efficient vehicles. I am proud work with Senator Peters on this critical legislation that will ensure Michigan continues to drive the future in advanced vehicle technology.” “American auto manufacturers rely on emerging technologies and innovations to continue to grow and compete in the global economy, and we must make critical investments to develop and build those technologies here at home,” said Senator Peters. “This legislation will provide sustainable funding to promote research and development of new vehicle innovations that will make the cars and trucks of the future cleaner, safer and more efficient. I’m honored to work with Congresswoman Dingell to ensure that our manufacturing industry has the resources to continue making important advances in manufacturing that will create jobs and grow our economy.” The Vehicle Innovation Act reauthorizes the Department of Energy’s Vehicle Technologies Program, which works with light duty automobile and medium and heavy duty commercial truck manufacturers and suppliers to conduct research and development to improve fuel efficiency in vehicles. Examples of these technologies include mild hybrid, engine down speeding, power pack modeling and testing, advanced boosting systems, new vehicle sensing and communication, hydrogen and natural gas refueling and electric vehicle charging technology. In addition, the bill includes provisions to encourage the development and use of vehicle-to-vehicle (V2V) communications systems that have the potential to improve fuel efficiency and reduce traffic accidents and congestion. “For the work truck industry to compete globally and continue to meet the needs of vocational truck users, it will need to employ advanced technologies and deploy more alternatively fueled trucks,” said Steve Carey, Executive Director of NTEA. “The Vehicle Innovation Act will support continued public-private partnerships and drive research that will keep us competitive and help us get more fuel efficient trucks on the road and support good paying jobs in Michigan.” “Auto manufacturers, suppliers and vocational truck upfitters rely on research and development of new technologies that will help keep our industry competitive in the global marketplace,” said Ross Haith, President of Leggett and Platt Commercial Vehicle Products. “I want to thank Senator Peters and Congresswoman Dingell for introducing this important legislation to support the development of new advancements and technologies that will help our company ensure that work trucks have the equipment to get the job done with the most fuel efficiency.” “The Vehicle Innovation Act encourages public-private partnerships that help motor vehicle parts suppliers and manufacturers spur innovation and develop new vehicle technologies,” said Steve Handschuh, President and Chief Executive Officer, of the Motor & Equipment Manufacturers Association. “This research and development will help vehicle manufacturers create new technologies to meet future fuel efficiency and emissions requirements while supporting middle class jobs in Michigan. These updates are crucial for maintaining America’s – and Michigan’s – position as a leader in automotive manufacturing, and I thank Congresswoman Dingell and Senator Peters for their leadership of this effort.” Peters introduced the legislation in the Senate earlier this year with Republican Senator Lamar Alexander (TN) and Senator Debbie Stabenow (MI). The legislation passed the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee with overwhelming bipartisan support as part of a larger package of energy legislation. The legislation is also supported by a broad coalition of environmental groups and manufacturers including the Motor and Equipment Manufacturers Association (MEMA), the BlueGreen Alliance, the Auto Alliance, NTEA - the Association for the Work Truck Industry, the United Auto Workers, the League of Conservation Voters, the Union of Concerned Scientists, the Natural Resources Defense Council, the Sierra Club, the American Automotive Policy Council, the Electric Drive Transportation Association, Robert Bosch LLC, the LORD Corporation, Umicore, Bergstrom, Magna International, Inc., and Dorman Products, Inc.
11.11.2015	DEARBORN, MI – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement in honor of Veterans Day. “On Veterans Day we pause to salute the brave men and women who have served our country in the armed forces. Our veterans and their families have made incredible sacrifices to protect our freedom and our way of life. While we cannot ever repay them for their service and sacrifice, we must work together to ensure they have a smooth transition back into civilian life. Our veterans should never have to fight for a job, a home or quality health care when they come home. These are non-negotiable priorities. “We have a moral obligation to our veterans, and my office is here to help and be a resource. I encourage any veteran who is experiencing problems cutting through red tape at a federal agency or receiving the benefits they’ve earned to contact my office. We are here to be your advocates and we will do everything in our power to solve any issues you may have. “On Veterans Day, we renew our commitment to keep our solemn promise to our veterans – to serve them as well as they served us, today and every day.” Veterans and their families from Michigan’s 12th District who need help with the VA or another federal agency are encouraged to call Dingell’s Dearborn office at (313) 278-2936.
11.06.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and U.S. Senators Gary Peters (MI) and Debbie Stabenow (MI) today introduced legislation that would allow Major Charles S. Kettles of Ypsilanti to be awarded the Medal of Honor. The bill was introduced following a request from the Ypsilanti Rotary Veterans History Project to review Major Kettles’ actions during the Vietnam War. Upon review, Secretary of Defense Ashton Carter determined that Major Kettles’ actions merited the nation’s highest military honor, but because the statute of limitations has passed, Congressional action is required. The legislation waives the time limitation and allows the President to make the final decision. “Major Kettles’ courage and dedication in the face of incredible odds is deserving of our nation’s highest military honor,” Congresswoman Dingell said. “Major Kettles went above and beyond the call of duty and saved a significant number of American lives. This legislation will ensure that 48 years after his service, his contributions to our country are properly honored.” “Under heavy enemy fire, Major Kettles selflessly put his life on the line to save his fellow servicemembers, leaving no one behind,” said Senator Peters, a former Lieutenant Commander in the U.S. Navy Reserve. “Major Kettles’ actions exemplified the valor, grit, and honor that makes our military the best in the world. It is my honor to join Congresswoman Dingell in helping to ensure Major Kettles is properly recognized for his devotion to our country and commitment to his fellow soldiers.” “Decades ago, Michigan’s own Major Kettles courageously went back into enemy territory to save the lives of 44 of his fellow servicemen,” said Senator Stabenow. “This bill will help make sure Major Kettles is awarded the Medal of Honor without delay and will recognize the true selflessness and bravery of his actions in Vietnam.” On May 15, 1967, after an airborne infantry unit was ambushed in the Song Tra Cau riverbed in Vietnam by the North Vietnamese Army, Major Kettles led three flights into extremely hostile territory to deliver supplies, reinforcements, and evacuate the wounded and trapped. During the final flight, shortly after leaving the landing zone, Major Kettles was informed that eight soldiers remained on the ground. Without hesitating, he returned on his own, without regard for his own safety and with no other support, to rescue the remaining men. All totaled on that day, his actions saved the lives of 40 soldiers and 4 crew members from the 176th Aviation Company after their helicopter was destroyed. For his voluntary action above and beyond the call of duty, Major Kettles was awarded the Distinguished Service Cross in 1968. In 2012, a local campaign was launched by William Vollano, a coordinator with the Veterans History Project, and Major Kettles’ family to upgrade his award to the Medal of Honor. A number of men from his company and the 101st Airborne Division sent letters validating his heroic actions, and last year former Congressman John D. Dingell sent a letter to the Secretary of Defense asking for reconsideration of the United States of America’s highest military honor. In reviewing the facts, Secretary Carter agreed that Major Kettles’ actions merited the Medal of Honor.
11.05.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement today after the Administration published the text of the secretive Trans-Pacific Partnership agreement. “After years of closed negotiations with a total lack of transparency, the text of the Trans-Pacific Partnership agreement has finally been released to the public this morning. In the first quick read of literally hundreds of pages, it appears that the agreement is even worse than expected, and the auto industry is among the biggest losers. "The agreement's lack of any meaningful protections against currency manipulation means millions of American jobs – in the auto industry and many other sectors – will continue to be threatened by foreign governments who attempt to tilt the global playing field in favor of their industries and against the United States. Up to five million U.S. jobs have already been lost because of currency manipulation – the mother of all trade barriers – and as I have said before, when is enough, enough? "Beyond this, it also contains weak labor standards and weak rules of origin that will reward countries that support sweatshops and abusive working conditions, at the same time putting even more American jobs at risk. "We need a fresh approach to trade in this country that protects American jobs and wages. We need a government that supports working men and women. I plan to read this agreement word for word in the next few days and to fully examine it with my colleagues and the experts in this arena with the intent of being a voice for hardworking American families."
10.29.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement today after the U.S. Department of Transportation announced recipients of the seventh round of Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) grants. “It is extremely disappointing that Michigan and the Downriver communities did not receive TIGER funding for critical construction projects. Our district is in desperate need of this funding, most notably for the decades-long problem at Allen Road. We were told the competition was rigorous – the Department of Transportation received 627 applications totaling $10.1 billion, roughly 20 times the available funds. Only 39 communities received a TIGER grant this year with hundreds, including ours, badly needing funding. This is just absolutely unacceptable. “This announcement is disappointing for Michigan and our communities, but it is also a symbol of a much larger problem in this country. Our infrastructure is growing worse and worse by the day with a number of deteriorating highways and bridges in dangerous condition. America’s transportation needs outweigh the current funds available, and will continue to do so until we address long-term funding issues at both the federal and state level. We cannot continue to kick the can down the road, allowing our infrastructure to crumble and in the process endangering jobs and the economy. I will continue to work with every mayor in my district and other stakeholders to seek funding for worthy projects, and will keep fighting at the federal level to reauthorize the Highway Trust Fund. At the end of the day, this is a joint responsibility shared by the states and the federal government. I hope the Governor and the State Legislature will also act to find a long-term funding solution to fix this problem.”
10.27.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and a bipartisan majority in the House of Representatives voted to support the reauthorization of the job-creating Export-Import Bank and override a faction of Republicans who refused to allow a vote before the bank’s authority expired on July 1, 2015. Since the bank’s authority lapsed, hundreds of jobs have been shipped overseas and thousands of businesses have lost access to new lines of capital needed to export their products. The legislation passed the House today by a vote of 313 to 118 and now moves to the Senate for consideration. “The American people are tired of partisan bickering, and I believe they want us to work together on the issues facing this country,” said Dingell. “They want us to support manufacturing, grow our economy and help create good jobs here at home. The Export-Import Bank is a vital tool to support that mission. For the past 80 years, the bank has played a critical role in helping U.S. businesses compete on a level playing field with our foreign competitors. In fact, the bank has helped 228 Michigan businesses, the majority of which are small businesses, export $11 billion worth of goods overseas – all while actually making money for taxpayers. We have to ensure this continues. It is my hope that the Senate will act immediately to reauthorize the bank so we can support our local businesses and the jobs they create.” Since coming to Congress, Dingell has called for the reauthorization of the Ex-Im Bank to support American manufacturing jobs. She is a cosponsor of legislation to reauthorize the bank and earlier this month, signed a “discharge petition” that forced today’s vote to revive the Ex-Im Bank on the floor. This summer, Dingell visited Hancock Enterprises, Inc. in Taylor and Polytorx, LLC in Ann Arbor to highlight the critical role the Ex-Im Bank plays in helping Michigan manufacturers sell their goods overseas and create jobs at home. The Export-Import Bank is the official export credit agency of the United States. When private sector lenders are unable or unwilling to provide financing, Ex-Im fills in the gap for American businesses by equipping them with the financing tools necessary to compete for global sales. In doing so, the bank levels the playing field for U.S. goods and services going up against foreign competition in overseas markets, so that American companies can create more good-paying American jobs.
10.24.2015	YPSILANTI, MI – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today joined approximately 2,090 women and girls at the Willow Run Airport in Ypsilanti to reclaim the Guinness World Record for the largest number of Rosie the Riveters together in one place since World War II. While the record must be authenticated before being made official, the gathering appears to have almost doubled the record of 1,084 Rosies set earlier this year in California. “This afternoon was incredible with women of all generations and various members of the community coming together to bring our record home,” said Dingell. “With more than 45 original Rosies in attendance, it was an opportunity to celebrate the iconic women who changed the course of history and continue to inspire each of us every day. It was about coming together as a community, preserving our history in Michigan and passing it on to future generations. Today, we are all prouder than ever of the incredible story we represent.”
10.23.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) invites 9-12th grade students from Michigan’s 12th District, families, high school counselors, veterans and servicemembers to attend Military Service Academy information sessions on Saturday, October 24th and Saturday, November 7th. The events will provide an opportunity for students, parents and counselors to meet with representatives from the service academies and learn more about the nomination process through Dingell’s office. “Our service academies offer outstanding young people the opportunity to receive a world-class education while serving our country,” said Dingell. “I’m proud our office can help the impressive young men and women who want to attend one of the nation’s prestigious academies.” For more information, please call Dingell’s Dearborn office at 313-278-2936. Saturday, October 24, 2015 WHAT: Military Service Academy Information Session WHO: Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) Representatives from the U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Military Academy and U.S. Naval Academy WHEN: 3-5 p.m., Saturday, October 24, 2015 WHERE: Washtenaw Community College, Morris Lawrence Bldg., Room 150, 4800 E. Huron River Dr., Ann Arbor Saturday, November 7, 2015 WHAT: Military Service Academy Information Session WHO: Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) Representatives from the U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Military Academy and U.S. Naval Academy WHEN: 2-4 p.m., Saturday, November 7, 2015 WHERE: Taylor Sportsplex, Room C, 13333 Telegraph Rd., Taylor
10.19.2015	DEARBORN, MI – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) is inviting local students to participate in the “Sending Smiles to Vets” program this fall by making Halloween, Veterans Day and Thanksgiving cards for local veterans. Since the “Sending Smiles to Vets” program was launched in February, students across Southeast Michigan have pitched in to make hundreds of cards thanking veterans for their service. “These small tokens of appreciation from our young people mean the world to our veterans,” said Dingell. “The cards and artwork bring smiles to their faces each holiday and remind them that we’re thinking of them and will never forget their service and sacrifice.” The cards will be delivered to veterans at the John D. Dingell VA Medical Center and the VA Ann Arbor Healthcare System on Halloween, Veterans Day and Thanksgiving. Deliveries will also occur during the holiday season. Those who wish to have their cards included in the Halloween delivery should drop them off at Dingell’s Michigan offices between now and 4 p.m. on Thursday, October 29, or call the Dearborn office at 313-278-2936 to arrange for pickup. Dearborn Office 19855 West Outer Drive Suite 103-E Dearborn, MI 48124 Ypsilanti Office 301 West Michigan Avenue Suite 400 Ypsilanti, MI 48197 Dingell launched the year-round “Sending Smiles to Vets” program after “Valentines for Veterans” received such an overwhelming response from veterans, schools and the community earlier this year. The program engages young people on an ongoing basis to create cards and artwork for veterans celebrating various seasons and holidays.
10.15.2015	DEARBORN, MI – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) expressed strong concern for the tens of millions of American seniors impacted by today’s announcement that Social Security beneficiaries would not receive a cost-of-living-adjustment (COLA) increase in 2016. “Many do not understand the implication of today's announcement. Too many seniors in our community are barely getting by and are facing increased costs for everyday living. Most challenging – and what they find terrifying – is that on top of not receiving a cost-of-living-adjustment next year, their Medicare premiums will increase at an unprecedented rate and they simply do not know how they are going to do it,” Dingell said. "Last week, while John was in the hospital, a number of people sought me out – several in tears, scared, worried and with no answers about how they would manage the increased costs of what it takes to just get by. They were worried about their escalating Medicare premiums, supplemental insurance, co-pays, tests, prescription drugs, as well as food, housing and transportation. “We have to do better. Social Security and Medicare are promises we make to our seniors, and they should be able to count on them for a secure and dignified retirement. Failing to provide the necessary cost-of-living-adjustment – for only the third time in 40 years – makes it too hard for older Americans to get by. We cannot leave seniors out in the cold without the critical support they have earned through a lifetime of hard work. We have to address this issue.” Dingell has co-sponsored legislation, H.R. 3696, the Medicare Premium Fairness Act, to protect seniors from an increase in their Medicare Part B premiums and maintain 2015 deductible rates through 2016 for all Medicare enrollees. She also signed a letter to Acting Commissioner of Social Security Carolyn W. Colvin this week urging an increase in COLA for 2016 and advocating for a new, more accurate formula to calculate cost-of-living-increases for American seniors. The letter can be read in full here.
10.14.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Representatives Debbie Dingell (MI-12), Keith Ellison (MN-05), Ted Lieu (CA-33), and 10 additional Members of Congress sent a letter to President Obama urging greater efforts to avoid civilian casualties in Yemen and achieve a diplomatic solution to the conflict. Last week, airstrikes conducted by a Saudi Arabia-led coalition struck a wedding reception in Sanban village, killing at least 23 Yemini civilians. The attack comes just over a week after an even deadlier attack on a wedding party in Wahijah village, which killed at least 131 people. “Secretary of Defense Ash Carter has acknowledged the United States is providing the Saudi-led coalition with intelligence, surveillance, reconnaissance, and logistics information, as well as resupply of equipment and munitions,” the Representatives wrote. “In order to protect innocent lives and reduce the potential for backlash against U.S. interests, we urge your administration to work with our Saudi partners to limit civilian casualties to the fullest extent possible.” According to Amnesty International, more than 2,100 civilians, including at least 400 children, have been killed since the conflict began, with the vast majority of civilian deaths and injuries attributed to attacks by the Saudi Arabia-led coalition. The Representatives continued, “When U.S. weapons and intelligence are utilized, the decision to conduct an airstrike should correspond to the standards that would apply to any U.S. military operation for limiting civilian casualties and collateral damage. Additional precautions to protect civilians are particularly crucial as the State Department has reported thousands of U.S. citizens are still inside Yemen in the absence of an official evacuation.” The lawmakers also echoed the concerns of United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon, who has made it clear that there is no military solution to the conflict in Yemen. Only a diplomatic solution will bring a peaceful end to this conflict and reverse the extensive humanitarian crisis. “With reports of the Houthi rebel leaders now open to possible UN negotiations, we urge you to continue all diplomatic efforts,” they wrote. “The people of Yemen and their relatives in the United States are counting on us to fully explore all avenues that could lead to peace in Yemen.” Additional signers include: Barbara Lee, Mark Pocan, Jan Schakowsky, Maxine Waters, David Cicilline, James McGovern, Raul Grijalva, John Conyers, Bobby Rush, John Lewis. The letter can be read in full below. October 14, 2015 The President The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President, We write to express our dismay over recent reports that airstrikes conducted by the Saudi Arabia-led coalition struck yet another wedding reception on Wednesday, October 7 in Sanban village, killing at least 23 people. This attack comes just over a week after the even deadlier attack on a wedding party in Wahijah village, on Monday, September 28, which killed at least 131 Yemeni civilians, including at least 80 women. Sadly, these are only the latest tragedies in the campaign against the Houthi rebels in Yemen. According to Amnesty International, more than 2,100 civilians, including at least 400 children, have been killed in the conflict, with the “vast majority” of civilian deaths and injuries attributed to attacks by the Saudi Arabia-led coalition. Secretary of Defense Ash Carter has acknowledged the United States is providing the Saudi-led coalition with intelligence, surveillance, reconnaissance, and logistics information, as well as resupply of equipment and munitions. With this level of active involvement in the campaign, we are concerned that some overseas may hold the United States responsible for any civilian casualties resulting from the bombing. In order to protect innocent lives and reduce the potential for backlash against U.S. interests, we urge your administration to work with our Saudi partners to limit civilian casualties to the fullest extent possible. When U.S. weapons and intelligence are utilized, the decision to conduct an airstrike should correspond to the standards that would apply to any U.S. military operation for limiting civilian casualties and collateral damage. Additional precautions to protect civilians are particularly crucial as the State Department has reported thousands of U.S. citizens are still inside Yemen in the absence of an official evacuation. Limiting civilian casualties, however, will only alleviate part of the heartbreaking humanitarian catastrophe in Yemen. After a recent visit to Yemen, the head of the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC), Peter Maurer, declared: "Yemen after five months looks like Syria after five years." More than 1.4 million people have been displaced. An estimated 12.9 million are considered food insecure and six million are severely food insecure, while more than 1.2 million children are suffering from moderate acute malnutrition and half a million are severely malnourished, according to the United Nations World Food Programme. Thousands of refugees are fleeing Yemen every week, and experts warn that tens of thousands Yemenis could join the waves of refugees seeking asylum in Europe if the conflict is not resolved soon. For these reasons, we share the concerns of United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon, who called for an “end to bombings” in Yemen during his speech to the UN General Assembly on Monday and has consistently stated that there is no military solution to the conflict. We thank you for your efforts to seek a negotiated solution, and are supportive of your administration’s efforts to engage leaders of all countries in the region, including the Iranian government, in dialogue regarding a negotiated end to the civil war. We fully support the April 2015 UN Resolution 2216, which demands all parties in Yemen, in particular the Houthis, immediately and unconditionally end violence and refrain from further unilateral actions that threatened the political transition. The resolution rightly calls for the Houthis to "withdraw from all areas seized during the latest conflict, relinquish arms seized from military and security institutions, cease all actions falling exclusively within the authority of the legitimate Government of Yemen and fully implement previous Council resolutions.” With reports of the Houthi rebel leaders now open to possible UN negotiations, we urge you to continue all diplomatic efforts. The people of Yemen and their relatives in the United States are counting on us to fully explore all avenues that could lead to peace in Yemen. We thank you for your attention to this urgent matter. Sincerely,
10.14.2015	DEARBORN, MI – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today hosted an information session for Yemeni nationals who wish to apply for temporary protected status (TPS) through U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS). Yemen was designated for TPS on September 3, 2015 due to the ongoing armed conflict within the country. The designation means that, from September 3, 2015 through March 3, 2017, eligible nationals of Yemen who are approved for TPS will be allowed to stay legally in the United States. “This critical designation provides peace of mind to families and friends whose required return to their country would have put their lives at risk,” said Dingell. “Today’s event helped ensure those eligible for TPS received the assistance and information necessary to receive the designation. “There continue to be significant problems that need to be addressed in Yemen. Families have told me devastating stories of loved ones who are trapped in a war zone and unable to return home, or grandparents who now have difficulty accessing food and water due to the conflict. We must continue working together to seek a negotiated solution to the crisis, improve the humanitarian conditions on the ground, and help Yemeni Americans return home. Thank you to USCIS and all of the organizations and individuals who helped make this event a success.” Staff members from USCIS and Dingell’s office were on hand to provide information about the TPS application process and eligibility requirements. Additional information about TPS is available at www.uscis.gov/humanitarian/temporary-protected-status. Members of the community who need assistance should contact Dingell’s Dearborn office at 313-278-2936. Dingell has worked closely with the Yemeni community since the conflict began. She championed language to prioritize the evacuation of U.S. citizens from Yemen in the final FY2016 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) report. Today, she joined Representatives Keith Ellison (MN-05), Ted Lieu (CA-33) and 10 additional Members of Congress in sending a letter to the President urging greater efforts to avoid civilian casualties in Yemen. Earlier this year, Dingell wrote a letter to Secretary of State John Kerry urging the State Department to take increased steps to evacuate American citizens, protect those stranded in Yemen, and improve communication with families. The letter can be read in full here.
10.09.2015	DETROIT, MI – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today congratulated University of Michigan Research Scientist Dr. James Sayer for being named a “White House Transportation Champion of Change” for his exemplary leadership and innovation in transportation. Dr. Sayer was selected for the award by the White House and the U.S. Department of Transportation. He has been instrumental in leading and developing the university’s vision for introducing connected and automated vehicle technologies, and continues to lead the design, development and implementation of Mcity, a facility that will allow the automotive community to test cutting-edge technologies. “The work Dr. Sayer is doing at the University of Michigan is where the future of transportation lies in this country,” said Dingell. “He is one of the nation’s leaders in the development and deployment of connected vehicle technology, which will improve safety, reduce congestion and conserve energy. Dr. Sayer’s work at Mcity is helping to drive this vision forward, and I join the university community in thanking him for his important contributions and congratulating him on this well-deserved honor.” Earlier this year, the Department of Transportation issued a draft report examining the trends and choices facing America’s transportation infrastructure, and predicting increased gridlock nationwide. This year’s Champions of Change event is meant to honor those who recognize these challenges in transportation, and have endeavored to solve them. Dr. Sayer is one of 11 such individuals selected by U.S. Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx and the White House who will be honored at the event on Tuesday, October 13 in Washington, DC.
10.07.2015	DETROIT, MI – Today, Congressman John Dingell underwent an angiogram at Henry Ford Hospital in Detroit, and doctors determined that he did not have a silent heart attack. Congressman Dingell will undergo a second procedure on Friday to implant a new device, and is expected to remain in the hospital for a few more days. “He is feisty,” said Congresswoman Debbie Dingell. “Both of us deeply appreciate the prayers and good wishes. They mean a lot.”
10.06.2015	DETROIT, MI – Congressman John Dingell was admitted to Henry Ford Hospital in Detroit on Monday. He is being evaluated and will undergo a heart procedure. Mr. Dingell is resting comfortably under doctor’s care and is his usual feisty self. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell will be in Michigan this week.
10.05.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement today on the passing of long-time civil rights activist and philosopher Grace Lee Boggs. “John and I are saddened by the loss of a friend and true champion for change. Grace Lee Boggs worked her entire life to advance the ideals of justice and equality. She believed at the core that small groups of people working together are the key to bringing about social change, and she inspired generations of Americans to pursue a dream of a society that is more fair and just. Grace left an indelible mark on our community, our state and our nation. We owe her a debt of gratitude, and will forever remember her as someone who brought people together and created revolutionary change – one small step at a time.”
10.05.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement today on the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) agreement. "Early reports indicate that this agreement is a bad deal for the working men and women of the American auto industry and for many other sectors of the U.S. economy. The negotiators' cloak and dagger approach has resulted in Members of Congress and the public being forced to operate on hearsay – not facts – because to date, we have been unable to access the secret web of side agreements and backroom deals that are associated with the latest rounds of negotiations. "Congress made it clear earlier this year that it is mandatory the Administration provide the Members of Congress and the public with full access to the secret side agreements when they release the text of the main agreement, and we will fight to make sure that requirement is upheld. All impacted parties must have an opportunity to analyze this wide reaching deal and clearly understand the potential impact on every sector. If necessary, we will introduce bipartisan legislation to ensure this occurs. “It also appears that currency manipulation has not been adequately addressed within the TPP agreement. Currency manipulation – the mother of all trade barriers – has cost 5 million hardworking Americans the opportunity to earn a decent living over the last decades, and nothing that we have heard indicates negotiators sufficiently addressed these issues. The history of side deals in past trade agreements prove they are utterly useless, and we should expect no different in a side agreement on currency. After months of bipartisan urging of the administration to include strong, enforceable currency provisions, their absence in the full text of the agreement makes this a failure for American workers and businesses. We will work with our colleagues on both sides of the aisle to do everything possible between now and the time Congress votes on this agreement to fight the devastating impact of this deal.”
10.02.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today joined students from across Southeast Michigan to kick off National Manufacturing Day, a nationwide effort to draw greater attention to modern manufacturing and the career opportunities available in the manufacturing sector. Dingell and Congresswoman Candice Miller (MI-10) introduced a bipartisan resolution this week designating October 2 as National Manufacturing Day. “Manufacturing Day provides an opportunity to celebrate the manufacturers and training facilities that are helping to keep Michigan at the forefront of innovation, and to inspire our next generation to pursue careers in modern manufacturing,” said Dingell. “Manufacturing is in our blood in Michigan, and it is important to engage our young people if we are to keep manufacturing in this country and continue to lead in a global economy.” According to a recent report, nearly 3.5 million manufacturing jobs will become available across the U.S. by 2025, but 2 million may be left unfilled due to the skills gap. As part of National Manufacturing Day, manufacturers and training facilities throughout Southeast Michigan, including the Ford Rouge Factory, Focus: HOPE, and General Motors, are opening their doors to middle and high school students to learn firsthand about the high-tech and innovative careers available in manufacturing. Also today, the administration announced that the University of Michigan will lead a consortium to identify new, emerging areas of advanced manufacturing that would benefit from shared investment in research and development, education, and training. Entitled “Consortium for Advanced Manufacturing Foresights: Defining the Critical Needs of the Advanced Manufacturing Research Community,” the project will be led by Professor Sridhar Kota. “This award is a testament to the tremendous work being done at the University of Michigan in advanced manufacturing,” Dingell continued. “Investments such as these will help ensure we can meet the needs of the manufacturing community for decades to come and compete with anyone around the world.” Manufacturing continues to be the backbone of the United States economy, contributing more than $2 trillion in 2014 and supporting 17.6 million good paying jobs. In the past five years, United States manufacturing has added over 700,000 jobs, marking the fastest pace of job growth since the 1990s.
09.30.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement today in support of the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF), one of our nation’s oldest and most significant conservation programs. Authorization for LWCF will expire at midnight tonight without action by Congress. “In 1965, Congress had the wisdom to create a critical conservation program based on a simple principle – when you take resources out of one part of the earth you should preserve a different part of it. For 50 years, the Land and Water Conservation Fund has had an incredible record of success using a small portion of offshore oil and gas drilling royalties to preserve beautiful, natural and iconic places in nearly every county in the country. The fund is critical for maintaining public access to outdoor recreation, promoting conservation, and supporting local economies. In fact, every $1 of LWCF money results in a return of $4 in economic value – all without costing the taxpayers a penny. “Most recently in my home state of Michigan, LWCF money was used to support the acquisition of the 410 acre Humbug Marsh unit to the Detroit River International Wildlife Refuge. This investment allowed us to protect the last mile of natural shoreline along the U.S. portion of the Detroit River. There are so many other stories like this because LWCF is a program that benefits the entire country. “There is broad bipartisan support in both the House and the Senate for LWCF reauthorization. It is absurd that we are facing the looming expiration of this landmark program that has a proven record of success. We should be embarrassed for letting LWCF expire at midnight tonight. This is shameful. Congress should do its job and bring reauthorization legislation to the floor without delay, because if the LWCF received a vote it would pass by a wide margin. This is not the time to play games with a crucial program that protects our communities and supports our economy. I won’t stop fighting until we achieve this critical goal.”
09.30.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today thanked the Chairman and Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee for including language she authored in the final FY2016 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) conference report. The report urges President Obama to work with international partners, to the extent practicable, to protect non-combatants and assist in the evacuation of U.S. citizens and nationals from Yemen. “The situation in Yemen is dire, and many of my constituents or their family members have been trapped in the country for months without a safe route home,” Dingell said. “I thank Chairman Thornberry, Ranking Member Smith and the entire conference committee for including this important language in the final conference report to prioritize evacuating U.S. citizens from Yemen. Given the conferees’ direction to the Obama Administration, it is my hope that we can provide much-needed hope for Yemeni-Americans in my district and their families. I will continue working with all relevant government agencies to do everything possible to bring our citizens home.” In May, the House of Representatives approved Dingell’s amendment to express the sense of Congress that the President should exercise all available authorities to evacuate United States citizens and nationals from Yemen as soon as possible. Dingell has been in close contact with State Department officials since the crisis in Yemen began. Earlier this year, she wrote a letter to Secretary of State John Kerry urging the State Department to take increased steps to evacuate American citizens, protect those stranded in Yemen, and improve communication with families. The letter can be read in full here.
09.29.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell today congratulated Mary Sue Coleman, former president of the University of Michigan, on being named the next president of the Association of American Universities, effective June 1, 2016. “The Association of American Universities can have no better leader than Mary Sue Coleman. She understands the importance of promoting equal access to education and how research universities are engines that propel our economy by supporting top talent and innovative ideas,” said Dingell. “She will be an effective advocate for students and will work tirelessly to expand the reach and capabilities of our research universities, which are vital to America’s success.”
09.29.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representatives Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and Candice Miller (MI-10) this week introduced a bipartisan resolution designating Friday, October 2, 2015 as ‘‘National Manufacturing Day.” The resolution recognizes the critical role manufacturing plays in the United States economy and honors the hardworking men and women of the manufacturing sector. The resolution can be read in full here. “Manufacturing is the heart and soul of the American economy,” said Dingell. “On October 2nd, manufacturing plants in Michigan and across the country will open their doors so that people in their communities can see the innovative products made by the best workers in the world. It is my hope that it will also inspire the next generation of young people to pursue careers in manufacturing, technology and engineering. This is the day we need to recommit to keeping manufacturing in this country and supporting the working men and women who continue to fuel American innovation.” “This nation was built, in large part, by the hardworking men and women of the manufacturing industry, and it continues to serve as the backbone of our economy – contributing over $2 trillion to the economy in 2014 alone,” Miller said. “The establishment of National Manufacturing Day, a national day of recognition, is an appropriate way to honor the critical role manufacturing workers play not only in keeping the United States on the cutting edge of innovation in an increasingly competitive global market, but also in supporting our national defense operations at home and abroad. It is said that a country which loses its manufacturing sector loses its ability to defend itself. It is thanks to our booming manufacturers, especially those here in Southeast Michigan, the heartland of American innovation, that we continue to protect the freedoms and liberties we hold so dear.” Manufacturing continues to be the backbone of the United States economy, contributing more than $2 trillion in 2014 and supporting 17.6 million good paying jobs. In the past five years, United States manufacturing has added over 700,000 jobs, marking the fastest pace of job growth since the 1990s.
09.25.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – In advance of what could be the final round of negotiations on the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP), Representatives Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and Morgan Griffith (VA-09) today led a bipartisan coalition of 160 Members of Congress in sending a letter to President Obama calling for strong, enforceable protections against currency manipulation in the final agreement. The letter comes as chief negotiators from the 12 TPP nations prepare to meet in Atlanta on Saturday in hopes of finalizing a proposed deal that does not include enforceable currency standards to protect American workers or manufacturers. The letter can be read in full here. “In just the last month, three of our trading partners – China, Korea, and Vietnam – have each taken steps that have caused their currencies to weaken, disadvantaging American businesses,” the Representatives wrote. “These steps have raised significant concerns and highlighted the importance of enacting strong, enforceable protections against currency manipulation. “Therefore, as you work to conclude negotiations of the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) and pursue the principal negotiating objective on unfair currency practices, we urge you to incorporate strong and enforceable currency rules within TPP.” It is estimated that currency manipulation has led to up to five million lost American jobs, and many more could be at risk as a result of a trade agreement that fails to include strong, enforceable protections against currency manipulation. The full text of the letter sent to President Obama can be read below. September 25, 2015 The President The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: During the congressional debate on Trade Promotion Authority (TPA), there was broad bipartisan support on one issue – the need to address currency manipulation. Senate and House leadership, along with support from your Administration, successfully included language in the TPA that established “The principal negotiating objective of the United States with respect to unfair currency practices is to seek to establish accountability through enforceable rules, transparency, reporting, monitoring, cooperative mechanisms or other means to address exchange rate manipulation….” In just the last month, three of our trading partners – China, Korea, and Vietnam – have each taken steps that have caused their currencies to weaken, disadvantaging American businesses. These steps have raised significant concerns and highlighted the importance of enacting strong, enforceable protections against currency manipulation. In light of these actions, your own White House has now called for Congress to enact legislation to provide additional authority to stop currency manipulation by our trading partners. Therefore, as you work to conclude negotiations of the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) and pursue the principal negotiating objective on unfair currency practices, we urge you to incorporate strong and enforceable currency rules within TPP. Exchange rates have a significant impact, and as Paul Volcker has noted, “trade flows are affected more by ten minutes of movement in the currency markets than by ten years of (even successful) negotiations.” Currency manipulation to undervalue exchange rates provides an unfair advantage for foreign competitors seeking to sell goods in U.S. markets, and puts U.S. businesses and workers at a disadvantage when selling our goods in foreign markets. According to the Peterson Institute of International Economics, currency manipulation has cost the United States up to 5 million jobs. The vast majority of the world, including TPP countries, has already agreed to avoid manipulating their currencies as part of International Monetary Fund (IMF) and World Trade Organization (WTO) commitments. The issue with addressing currency manipulation has been a lack of effective enforcement. The WTO commitment is considered too vague for a country to pursue a dispute, and the IMF, while it has clear provisions, lacks an enforcement mechanism. Thus, our ultimate aim is to establish a clear and enforceable currency manipulation discipline. The TPP is the best opportunity to achieve such a discipline. U.S. workers and businesses are the best in the world, and it is critical to our country’s economic future that they are able to compete in a fair global marketplace. For that reason, it is critical the TPP include strong, enforceable protections against currency manipulation. Thank you for working to address this matter. Sincerely, Signers: Dingell; Griffith; Adams; Aderholt; Aguilar; Barletta; Bass; Beatty; Becerra; Bishop, Sanford; Boyle; Brady, Robert; Brat; Brownley; Bustos; Butterfield; Capps; Capuano; Cárdenas; Carson; Cartwright, Matt; Castor; Chu; Cicilline; Clark, Katherine; Clay; Cleaver; Cohen; Conyers; Courtney; Crawford; Cummings; Davis, Danny; DeFazio; DeLauro; Denham; DeSaulnier; Deutch; Doggett; Donovan; Doyle; Duckworth; Duncan, Jeff; Edwards; Ellison; Engel; Eshoo; Esty; Fattah; Fortenberry; Foster; Frankel; Fudge; Gabbard; Gallego; Garamendi; Gibson; Graham; Grayson; Green, Gene; Grijalva; Gutierrez; Hastings; Heck, Denny; Higgins; Hinojosa; Huffman; Israel; Jackson Lee; Jeffries; Jenkins, Evan; Johnson, Hank; Jones; Joyce; Kaptur; Katko; Keating; Kelly, Robin; Kildee; Kirpatrick; Kuster; Langevin; Larson; Lawrence; Lee; Levin; Lewis; Lieu; Lipinski; Loebsack; Lofgren; Lowenthal; Lowey; Lujan Grisham; Lujan, Ben Ray; Lynch; Maloney, Carolyn; Maloney, Sean Patrick; Matsui; McArthur; McCollum; McDermott; McGovern; McKinley; McNerney; Meng; Mooney; Moore; Mulvaney; Murphy, Patrick E.; Nadler; Napolitano; Nolan; Norcross; Nugent; Pallone; Pascrell; Perry; Peterson; Pingree; Pocan; Price, David; Rangel; Ruppersberger; Rush; Ryan, Tim; Sanchez, Linda; Sanchez, Loretta; Sarbanes; Schakowsky; Schiff; Scott, David; Serrano; Sherman; Sinema; Sires; Slaughter; Smith, Adam; Speier; Swalwell; Takai; Takano; Thompson, Mike; Titus; Tonko; Torres; Tsongas; Van Hollen; Vargas; Vela; Velázquez; Visclosky; Walz; Waters; Watson-Coleman; Webster; Welch; Wilson, Joe; Wilson, Frederica; Yarmuth
09.24.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement on His Holiness Pope Francis’ historic address before a joint meeting of Congress. “Pope Francis reminded all of us today that we are part of the world community, and as such, our responsibilities to it. “He reminded me of the teachings the nuns instilled in me as a child; the distinction between rules and values, the difference between being served and the satisfaction of serving, and the importance of action. “His words will be the pillar for my public service career, and it is my hope that today will help remind the Congress that there is far more that unites us than divides us. In the Pope’s words, ‘building a future of freedom requires love of the common good and cooperation in a spirit of…solidarity.’ Let his words of hope, healing, peace, justice, dreams and joy be guiding principles. And may the golden rule – ‘do unto others as you would have them do unto you’ – be the words of wisdom that direct us. “It was a day to celebrate, inspire and remember, and as a Catholic woman, one that I will hold in my heart and soul.”
09.22.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today released the following statement after the Department of the Interior announced a multi-state conservation strategy to protect the greater sage-grouse and preclude the bird’s listing through the Endangered Species Act. “Today’s announcement by the Department of the Interior that the greater sage-grouse does not need protection under the Endangered Species Act is an accomplishment we should celebrate. This historic collaboration clearly shows that the Endangered Species Act can serve the needs of our communities and our critical natural resources if it is allowed to work as intended. This law was established to serve as a flexible and effective catalyst for conservation, and the strategy announced today represents an extraordinary partnership between the Department of the Interior and eleven western states to protect the greater sage-grouse and hundreds of other wildlife species that call this landscape home. “The effort sets the groundwork for a 21st century approach to conservation where states, communities, businesses and the federal government work hand in hand to protect wildlife, our iconic landscapes, and our local economies; and it is further evidence that the Endangered Species Act is working and must be protected.”
09.21.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today announced that the City of Taylor has been awarded a $500,000 grant so that the police department can hire four additional police officers. The grant was awarded through the Department of Justice’s Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) Hiring Program. “Our brave men and women in uniform keep our communities safe every day, and it is critical they have the resources to do their jobs safely and effectively,” said Dingell, who supported the grant in a letter to the Department of Justice earlier this year. “With local police departments across the country dealing with tight budget constraints, this federal funding will allow Taylor to dedicate police officers to areas of greatest need, build relationships with the community and keep our families safe.” “This COPS grant will help us to assign four additional officers to areas of higher crime to help us to keep our citizens safe,” said Taylor Chief of Police Mary Sclabassi. “We appreciate Congresswoman Dingell for her unwavering support of our department and city.” The COPS Hiring Program is designed to advance public safety through community policing by addressing the full-time sworn officer needs of state, local and tribal law enforcement agencies nationwide. CHP provides funds directly to law enforcement agencies to hire new or rehire career law enforcement officers and to increase their community policing capacity and crime prevention efforts.
09.18.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today announced that Washtenaw Community College (WCC) will receive a new $899,737 grant from the Department of Labor YouthBuild program to support academic and occupational skills training for at-risk youth. The grant, which Dingell supported in a letter to Labor Secretary Thomas Perez, will serve the City of Ypsilanti and Ypsilanti Charter Township. “Every young person in this country deserves the opportunity to reach their full potential,” said Dingell. “This important investment will provide education and skills training to help our workers succeed in a knowledge-based economy, and go a long way towards ensuring every individual, no matter where they start out in life, has the opportunity to get ahead.” The grant will enable WCC to build on their 20 years of success providing construction skills training in partnership with local industry, employers and municipalities. The college will provide wrap-around student support services to help at-risk youth succeed; establish a pre-apprenticeship program to provide participants with advanced standing in the Ironworkers apprenticeship training program; and provide leadership development training for participants and staff. YouthBuild is a community-based alternative education program that provides classroom instruction and occupational skills training in construction and other in-demand occupations to 16-24 year-olds who have been in the juvenile justice system, are aging out of foster care, have dropped out of high school, or are otherwise at-risk of failing to reach key educational and career milestones.
09.18.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) will continue her “Congress In Your Community” tour tomorrow with a stop at Flat Rock Riverfest. Dingell is hosting Congress In Your Community events throughout Michigan’s 12th District to provide constituents an opportunity to conveniently discuss issues and concerns with her and her staff and take advantage of services provided through the office. The events are open to constituents across the 12th District and no appointment is necessary. For questions or additional information, please call Dingell’s Dearborn office at 313-278-2936. Saturday, September 19, 2015 WHAT: Dingell to host Congress In Your Community in Flat Rock WHEN: 12:30-1:30 p.m., Saturday, September 19 WHERE: Huroc Park, located off Arsenal Rd., South of W. Huron River Dr., Flat Rock
09.17.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today thanked Vice President Joe Biden for visiting Michigan to highlight Detroit’s economic recovery and announce key investments in cutting-edge vehicle technology projects in southeast Michigan. “It was a great honor to welcome Vice President Biden to Michigan today to celebrate our economic progress and the grit and determination of the American workers who made it happen,” said Dingell. “The Vice President has long been a champion of the U.S. auto industry, and the grants he announced today will help Michigan stay at the forefront of vehicle innovation. He was spot on in his remarks – ‘Detroit is back, the auto industry is back, and America is back.’ These investments will keep us moving forward.” The grants were awarded through the Department of Energy to support advanced vehicle technology development that increases energy efficiency, reduces America’s reliance on foreign oil, and cuts harmful emissions. As part of the announcement, Ford Motor Company in Dearborn was awarded a $3.5 million grant to develop commercially available software that is capable of predicting battery safety performance. Other investments in Michigan include: General Motors, LLC, Warren, MI – $2,955,360 to develop commercially available software that improves the computational processing time of battery pack performance modeling by a factor of 100. Robert Bosch LLC, Farmington Hills, MI – $1,756,225 to develop and demonstrate a high-efficiency spark-ignited natural gas engine and develop a hybrid three-way catalyst (TWC)-selective catalytic reduction (SCR) exhaust aftertreatment system to maximize engine efficiency at a significantly lower cost than competing, diesel-based, dual-fuel approaches. Michigan Technological University, Houghton, MI – $750,000 to develop improved computer models for the fuel spray evaporation process in internal combustion engines, including how fuel sprays interact with engine cylinder walls. Better understanding of this process will contribute to higher efficiency engines in the future.
09.17.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today thanked the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) for approving the Downriver Community Conference’s (DCC) request for public assistance following August 2014 flooding in southeast Michigan. Dingell worked closely with the DCC and other stakeholders to support the request and ensure DCC was reimbursed for funding urgently needed to repair its facilities. “This funding is great news for the DCC and Downriver communities,” said Dingell. “The August 2014 flood placed significant undue hardship on our communities, and I witnessed firsthand the damage done to this important institution by the four feet of standing water in their boiler room. This support for the DCC will go far to help alleviate the hardship on residents and contribute to the ongoing recovery of the district.” “I want to express my sincerest gratitude on behalf of the board and staff at the DCC to Congresswoman Dingell and her staff for assisting us in this critical effort with FEMA; we couldn’t have done it without her efforts,” said DCC Executive Director Jim Perry. As a result of the August flood, the DCC sustained flood damage and incurred repair costs totaling $106,750, of which $25,000 was covered by insurance. The institution will receive reimbursement funding through FEMA’s Public Assistance (PA) Grant Program, which provides assistance to State, Tribal and local governments and certain types of Private Nonprofit organizations to assist communities to quickly respond and recover from a major disaster or emergencies declared by the President.
09.17.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today announced that her Dearborn district office will welcome a new caseworker following the retirement of long-time staff member Shelly Burgor. Burgor first began serving as a caseworker under former Congressman John Dingell and has assisted constituents with immigration, Social Security, and Medicare issues since 2012. “For years, Shelly has been a steadfast, passionate advocate for our students, seniors and families,” said Dingell. “She tackles every challenge with energy, determination and humor, and her commitment to the people of the 12th District is unmatched. We wish Shelly all the best in her well-deserved retirement and thank her for her tireless work that has benefitted countless people in Southeast Michigan and beyond. She will be greatly missed.” On September 23rd, Jannine Kadri will assume the role of constituent services representative in Dingell’s Dearborn office, where she will oversee immigration casework and manage outreach to the Arab American community and other special projects. Kadri most recently served as a legal assistant at Farhat Law in Dearborn and previously worked as an Arabic-English translator at the Arab American Language Institute. “We are thrilled to welcome Jannine to our team and know that her unique background and skillset will be a huge asset to our district staff team,” added Dingell. “Representing the people of Michigan’s 12th District is our top priority, and we will continue working hard to ensure their voices are heard and issues addressed.” “It is with great enthusiasm that I join Congresswoman Dingell's team,” said Kadri. “I share her passion for helping people and it is an honor to serve the people of the 12th District.”
09.15.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today announced that Wayne Metropolitan Community Action Agency in Wyandotte will receive a $637,122 grant from the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to continue their work providing housing and other services to homeless and low-income veteran families. The grant is awarded through the Supportive Services for Veteran Families (SSVF) program. “Our veterans have sacrificed so much for our country and they deserve our full support when they come home,” said Dingell. “This investment provides much needed assistance to ensure our heroes and their families have a roof over their head and a permanent place to call home.” The SSVF program typically serves veterans with incomes below 30 percent of the area median income. Grants are awarded to organizations that follow the housing first approach, which centers on permanently housing homeless veterans quickly and providing supportive services as needed. Additional SSVF requirements are that grantees engage in outreach to find and serve veterans in need, provide veterans with case management and assist them in obtaining VA and other public benefits. The Wayne Metropolitan Community Action Agency partners with the Monroe County Opportunity Program (MCOP) and the Michigan Ability Partners (MAP) to serve area veterans. SSVF served 127,829 participants in fiscal year 2014 and is on track to serve 135,000 veterans and their family members by the end of fiscal year 2015. As a result of these and other efforts, veteran homelessness is down significantly since the launch of the Federal Strategic Plan to Prevent and End Homelessness in 2010. Since 2010, nearly 230,000 veterans and their family members have been permanently housed, rapidly rehoused or prevented from falling into homelessness by VA’s homelessness programs and targeted housing vouchers provided by HUD.
09.10.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today announced that the University of Michigan will receive eight awards worth $11,309,467 from the National Science Foundation (NSF) to conduct research in a variety of academic areas. “The University of Michigan is a leader in conducting groundbreaking research, and I’m pleased that the university is being recognized with these significant awards,” said Dingell. “Investments in research and STEM education are critical to staying at the forefront of advancements in energy, manufacturing, and health care. These grants will help ensure our state and our nation remain competitive in the 21st century economy.” A full list of projects receiving funding is below. • Professor Sridhar Kota’s project entitled “Consortium for Advanced Manufacturing Foresights: Defining the Critical Needs of the Advanced Manufacturing Research Community” will receive $5,801,323 • Associate Research Scientist Mark Thames’ project entitled “Building Assessment Items and Instructional Tasks to Build Intercommunity Capacity to Develop Teachers’ Mathematical Knowledge for Teaching” will receive $2,996,550 • Professor Walter Mebane’s project entitled “Positive Empirical Models of Election Frauds” will receive $648,425 • Assistant Research Scientist Sunghee Lee’s project entitled “Empirical Assessment of Respondent Driven Sampling from Total Survey Error Perspectives” will receive $549,999 • Professor Charles Doering’s project entitled "Systematic Search For Extreme and Singular Behavior in Some Fundamental Models of Fluid Mechanics” will receive $454,916 • Professor Eric Bell’s project entitled “Collaborative Research: Survey of the Magellanic Stellar History” will receive $454,419 • Assistant Professor Johanna Mathieu’s project entitled “EAGER: Renewables: Demand response algorithms to improve electric power system stability margins” will receive $278,835 • Professor Aaron Ridley’s project entitled “EAGER-DynamicData: Reducing Orbital Position Uncertainty with Ensembles of Upper Atmospheric Models” will receive $125,000 The National Science Foundation supports research, innovation, and discovery at America’s colleges and universities by distributing federal grants. On average, NSF awards about 11,000 new grants each year to individuals or small research groups after a rigorous review process.
09.09.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today released the following statement in advance of President Obama’s visit to Macomb Community College in Michigan, where he will announce $175 million in Department of Labor American Apprenticeship Grants to help employers, labor unions, nonprofits, local governments and educational institutions expand apprenticeships. “We are honored to welcome the President to Michigan today to highlight the importance of a skilled workforce,” said Dingell. “Today, too many jobs are left unfilled because employers cannot find potential employees with the 21st century skills they need. The modern manufacturing industry requires well trained, highly skilled employees, and these grants will bring business and labor together to train workers for the jobs that are available. Apprenticeships are a win-win for employers and workers, and these programs will provide an important pathway into modern manufacturing careers for hundreds of Michigan residents.” The announcement includes a $5.5 million grant for the Jobs for the Future (JFF) Next Gen IMT program, which Dingell supported in a letter to the Department of Labor. Funds will be used to enhance and expand apprenticeship opportunities in the growing Advanced Manufacturing sector and will serve 1,450 individuals in eight participating states, including Michigan. The program will utilize a competency based hybrid manufacturing apprenticeship, focused on new and incumbent entry-level workers. Additional grant recipients include: • Macomb Community College – awarded a $3.9 million grant to fund Michigan Apprenticeship Program Plus (MAP+) and serve 600 apprentices in IT and manufacturing occupations. • Southeast Michigan Community Alliance (SEMCA) – awarded a $4 million grant to lead the Advance Michigan Center for Apprenticeship Innovation (CAI) project. The project will engage organizations focused on special populations in STEM careers and establish or expand apprenticeship programs responsive to the evolving technical needs in the high-demand, new-age automotive and transportation sectors of the Advanced Manufacturing industry. CAI will serve 853 workers in the State of Michigan. • UAW-Labor Employment and Training Corporation – awarded a $5 million grant to fund the UAW American Apprenticeship Initiative Program. A number of underserved workers will be assisted, including 500 job seekers and 975 incumbent workers in high skilled occupations within the Advanced Manufacturing Industry. • Focus: HOPE – awarded a $3 million grant to fund the Focus: HOPE American Apprenticeship Program to serve 300 apprentices in targeted occupations in the Advanced Manufacturing and IT industries. • Managed Career Solutions, Inc. – awarded $2.9 million for the development and implementation of new registered apprenticeship and pre-apprenticeship programs in the emerging IT and health information technology industry and for the expansion of existing programs in biotechnology. The grant will serve 1,000 workers in three states, including Michigan. • National Joint Apprenticeship and Training Committee – awarded a $4.7 million grant to fund the Pre-Apprenticeship Program (Pre-APP) to increase employment and training opportunities in targeted occupations within the electrical industry including: Electrical Engineers, Civil Engineers, and Network Administrators. The Pre-APP program proposes to serve 1000 apprentices in 5 years (200 each year) from 13 proposed electrical training centers across the United States. • Milwaukee Area Workforce Investment Board – awarded $10 million to expand IT, Healthcare, Manufacturing, and Construction apprenticeships to 1,200 people in the Midwest, including in Michigan. Employers include Quicken Loans, Meridian Health, General Motors, Emerson, Building and Construction Trades Council of St. Louis and St. John Providence Health System, and Goodwill. The American Apprenticeship Grants will help train and hire more than 34,000 new apprentices across the country in high-growth and high-tech industries while scaling up proven programs in construction, transportation, and energy over the next five years.
09.03.2015	On Thursday, September 24, 2015 His Holiness Pope Francis will become the first Pontiff to address a Joint Session of Congress. The event is historic, and we are honored and grateful to receive his message of unity, peace and respect for all people. While public tickets are not available for the Joint Session in the House Chamber, arrangements have been made for a broadcast on the West Front Lawn of the U.S. Capitol. Following the address, it is expected that Pope Francis will make a brief public appearance on the steps of the Capitol. A limited number of tickets have been made available to each Member of Congress to distribute to constituents, which my office will distribute via a random drawing. The tickets will provide general admission to the West Lawn, where attendees will be able to watch Pope Francis’ address on several large video screens and witness his public appearance. It is important that those who participate understand that a clear line-of-sight cannot be guaranteed if they are attending the West Front broadcast, but the space does offer an opportunity to be part of this historic event. There will be tight security arrangements throughout Washington, D.C. for the duration of the Pope's visit and those participating need to have very realistic expectations of how difficult travel and logistics may be. Residents of the 12th District who wish to participate in this random drawing should fill out the form below by Friday, September 11. Please note that entering the drawing does not guarantee a ticket. Winners will be notified on Monday, September 14. Ticket holders are responsible for their own travel, accommodations and any logistics related to the event. Tickets must be picked up in person with a photo ID and signed for in our Washington, D.C. office between September 21 and September 23. If a winner is unable to use their ticket, it will be redistributed to those on the waitlist on a rolling basis. Ticket Request for Pope Francis' Congressional Address *By submitting this request, I understand that these tickets may not be sold or given away and that I am responsible for my own travel and arrangements to and from Washington, D.C. as well as any additional activities in which I may choose to participate beyond the telecast on the 24th.
09.03.2015	DEARBORN, MI – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today thanked Secretary of Homeland Security Jeh Johnson for his decision to designate Yemen for Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for 18 months due to the ongoing armed conflict within the country. Eligible Yemeni nationals residing in the United States may apply for TPS with U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) from September 3, 2015 to March 1, 2016. Details and procedures for applying for TPS were posted today in the federal register and can be found online at www.uscis.gov/tps. “Yemeni Americans and their family members have been suffering for months due to the horrific conflict within their country,” said Dingell. “If Yemeni nationals visiting or living in the United States are required to return home during this ongoing crisis, their personal safety and their lives would be put at risk. This designation by the Department of Homeland Security will provide safety and refuge during these difficult times, and it is critical that those who may be eligible and who may be afraid to return to their country during this conflict apply. Our office is available for those who my need assistance in applying for the designation.” “This Temporary protected status will provide relief for members of our community and those who need it during this time of conflict,” said Abdulhakem Alsadah, Current Chair of the Yemeni American Civil Rights and Anti-Discrimination Coalition, and President of the National Association of Yemeni Americans. “I would like to thank DHS Secretary Johnson, USCIS Director Rodriguez and federal outreach staff at DHS and the National Security Council office including but not limited to George Salim and Ehsan Zaffar. A special thank you is deserved for Eric Treene, Special Counsel for the DOJ Civil Rights Division. All of the organizations including YABA, YAA, ADC, CAIR, and AHRC worked together so effectively to make this possible. We owe a very special debt of gratitude and appreciation to our friend and Representative Congresswoman Debbie Dingell and her staff in Michigan and DC for their work and support. We would like to send our sincere thank you to our dear friend and the Dean of Congress John Conyers and his staff and our friend Senator Debbie Stabenow and her staff. This would not have been possible without the work of all of these amazing people and organizations.” “This designation is something we have been working on for a long time,” said Ali Baleed Almaklani, Executive Director of the Yemen American Benevolent Association. “It will provide much-needed relief for our community during a time of severe violence and civil strife. I thank the Department of Homeland Security and Congresswoman Dingell for her support and her continuous work on behalf of the Yemeni community.” “YAA is very happy and delighted at the announcement of TPS for the Yemeni community, and would like to express our sincerest appreciation to Congresswoman Dingell for her hard work on behalf of our community” said Mohamed Abdulla, Public Affairs Director of the Yemeni American Association. The TPS designation for Yemen is effective September 3, 2015, and will be in effect through March 3, 2017. The designation means that, during the designated period, eligible nationals of Yemen (and people without nationality who last habitually resided in Yemen) who are approved for TPS will not be removed from the United States. For more information about the application process and eligibility requirements, please visit www.ucis.gov/tps. Members of the community who need assistance should contact Dingell’s Dearborn office at 313-278-2936.
09.01.2015	DEARBORN, MI – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today hosted House Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer (MD-5) in Michigan to discuss manufacturing issues and highlight the successful recovery of the U.S. auto industry. Dingell and Hoyer participated in a roundtable discussion with auto suppliers at Neapco, Inc. in Belleville, Michigan organized by the Motor & Equipment Manufacturers Association (MEMA) and its division Original Equipment Suppliers Association (OESA). They also toured the Ford Dearborn Truck Plant, located in the Ford Rouge Complex in Dearborn, Michigan with plant management, labor leaders and auto workers. Dingell and Hoyer are seeking input from manufacturers, workers and business leaders to update the Make It In America plan, which Hoyer launched in 2010, to best support manufacturing and keep jobs in America. “The auto industry is the backbone of our nation’s economy, and no place is more central to America’s manufacturing story than southeast Michigan,” said Dingell. “It’s an honor to highlight the best motor vehicles made in the world and meet with OEMs, suppliers and workers with Steny Hoyer, who is a strong and tireless advocate for American manufacturing. When Congress reconvenes this month, we will continue working together with our colleagues to advance policies that help the domestic auto industry compete in a global economy, protect and create good paying jobs for the working men and women of this country, and ensure Michigan continues to lead in manufacturing.” “Our auto industry has always been at the heart of America’s economy and helps sustain and grow millions of high-skill, high-wage manufacturing jobs in Michigan and across the country,” said Whip Hoyer. “Since arriving in Congress, Rep. Dingell has been a tireless advocate for a strong auto industry and policies that help America’s auto workers compete for jobs and opportunities today and in the future. Today’s visit was a reminder of how important this industry is to ensuring that our businesses and workers can continue to Make It In America for years to come.” “We were pleased to host Rep. Dingell and Whip Hoyer today to discuss the vital role auto suppliers play in the motor vehicle industry and the American economy,” said Julie A. Fream, President and CEO of OESA. “Suppliers account for nearly two-thirds of the value of vehicles produced today, and in total, the auto supplier industry accounts for more than 3.6 million jobs nationwide. We look forward to working with Rep. Dingell and Whip Hoyer to ensure the industry can continue to grow and support high-skill manufacturing jobs in Michigan and across the country.” Motor equipment suppliers make up the nation’s single largest manufacturing sector, contributing $355 billion to the economy. The Ford Rouge Complex is an icon of American manufacturing. Since its opening in 1917, the Rouge Plant has led manufacturing innovations and served hundreds of thousands of workers. Today, it is a high-tech, modern facility that produces, among other things, the all-new Ford F-150, which features a military grade aluminum-alloy body. Whip Hoyer has led the Make It In America initiative to strengthen American manufacturing since 2010. Since its inception, the initiative has led to 16 bills being signed into law. Rep. Dingell testified on the future of manufacturing at a hearing hosted by Congressman Hoyer on July 9, 2015, where she discussed her efforts to develop a Scale-Up Manufacturing Investment Fund to support scale production of new, innovative products in the United States. Dingell will join with House Small Business Committee Ranking Member Nydia Velázquez to introduce the Scale-up Manufacturing Investment Company Act of 2015 when Congress resumes session in early September.
08.31.2015	DEARBORN, MI – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today announced that the University of Michigan will receive three research grants totaling $829,714 from the National Science Foundation (NSF). “University of Michigan is leading the way in research and development of new technologies that will solve some of our country’s most pressing challenges,” said Dingell. “This NSF funding will keep researchers at the forefront of innovation and go a long way toward making our vehicles safer, helping manufacturers scale-up new products and improving early detection of devastating diseases.” A full list of projects receiving funding is below. • Professor Alan Argento’s project entitled “GOALI: Behavior of Materials from Natural Cellulose Fibers and Plant Resins for Automotive and Other Applications” will receive $379,714 • Associate Professor Zhuoqing Mao’s project entitled “EAGER: Cybermanufacturing: Enabling Production as a Service (PaaS)” will receive $250,000 • Associate Professor Brian Denton’s project entitled “Optimal Design of Biomarker-Based Screening Strategies for Early Detection of Chronic Diseases” will receive $200,000 The National Science Foundation supports research, innovation, and discovery at America’s colleges and universities by distributing federal grants. On average, NSF awards about 11,000 new grants each year to individuals or small research groups after a rigorous review process.
08.24.2015	DEARBORN, MI – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement in support of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), reached by the P5+1 nations and Iran. When the Congress returns this September, we face a critical vote that will deeply impact global security. As others have stated, it is probably one of the most serious decisions in the nation's history. We are faced with this decision because of Iran’s defiance of the international community through the pursuit of a covert nuclear program that has left nations and people throughout the world deeply concerned about the threat this poses to world peace. Since the announcement of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), there have been intense dialogues about the impact of the agreement and the potential consequences. This Administration has conducted numerous briefings starting with President Obama, Secretary of State Kerry, Energy Secretary Moniz, and Treasury Secretary Lew. They have answered many questions and made data available to every Member of Congress who has requested information or expressed concerns as they try to understand the potential danger and outcomes. Diverse organizations, which both support and oppose the proposed agreement, have provided material developed by foreign policy experts, academics, diplomats, military experts, scientists, and economists, among many others. I have also met and heard from many people throughout the 12th District and across Michigan and have been struck by how the debate on this issue has been conducted with the respect that such a serious issue deserves. Throughout the discussions with experts and constituents, many have said that Iran simply cannot be trusted – and I agree with that. But this agreement is not based on trust - it is based on verification. If the deal goes forward, both the uranium and plutonium pathways to a bomb will be cut off, and we will have unprecedented insight and access to the Iranian nuclear program. If they cheat, we will know it, and current sanctions will snap back into place. And as President Obama has consistently said, nothing in this agreement takes the military option off the table if Iran’s violations were ever to reach that level. In the end, I have decided that I will support the agreement when it comes before Congress for a vote. In trying to approach this decision in a balanced manner, I have reached the conclusion that pragmatically we have no other realistic options, and failure to support the President will hurt the United States in the world community while having no impact on preventing Iran from gaining nuclear capability. The leadership of the United States is very much at stake and if we do not assert this leadership, our European allies, the Chinese and others will not support us in dealing with these kinds of critical situations again. Without the JCPOA, Iran would have the capacity to acquire enough material for a nuclear bomb within the next few months. In addition, failure to approve the deal would leave Iran's nuclear program and capability shrouded in secrecy and we would have no means to keep it in check. Also of concern, other members of the P5+1 - China, France, Russia, the United Kingdom and Germany – will no longer impose economic sanctions such that the benefit of what has been gained in recent years would be significantly diminished if not completely lost. This simply represents too much danger for the United States and for world peace. It is also my hope that support of this historic agreement will unlock new opportunities to resolve other conflicts in the region and help strengthen our renew our global commitment to fighting terrorism in a more productive way. A top priority for the United States remains addressing Iran’s support of terrorist organizations. This is not an easy decision, and it is one that is made with the utmost respect for my friends and colleagues on both sides. This process has shown me that no matter what decision one reaches on this issue, almost everyone shares the exact same concerns. Congressional oversight of the JCPOA will not end with September’s vote – in fact, it will just be the beginning. This effort must be bipartisan, and I hope it will be divorced from the acrimonious politics that have dominated the discussion in some quarters to date. It is my hope that Congress and the international community will now turn their efforts to enforcement of this agreement so we can ensure that Iran never obtains a nuclear weapon, which is a goal that we all share. The United States and our allies seek peace in the Middle East. We have two goals: promoting peace and keeping the confidence of our allies who need American leadership. The JCPOA helps support both of these goals, which is why I will support it.
08.21.2015	DEARBORN, MI – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) sent a letter to Dr. Stephen Ostroff, Acting Commissioner of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) emphasizing the urgent need to finalize a proposed rule to regulate electronic cigarettes. Dingell sent the letter after her constituent, Sgt. Jason Diekman of Wyandotte, was severely injured by an exploding electronic cigarette that badly burned his arms and abdomen, and to express her opposition to recent attempts by Congress to exempt e-cigarettes from regulation. The letter can be read in full here. “Consumers deserve peace of mind in knowing the products they buy at the store are safe for use,” wrote Dingell. “Such assurances currently do not exist for electronic cigarettes due to the absence of federal regulation of these products…the FDA has issued a proposed rule that would extend the agency’s authority to electronic cigarettes, and these troubling incidents underscore the need to finalize this regulation as soon as possible.” The proposed rule would deem electronic cigarettes to be subject to FDA authority, meaning they would be regulated in the same manner as which FDA currently regulates cigarettes. Manufacturers of electronic cigarettes would be required to register with the agency, report product and ingredient listings, and include health warnings and minimum age restrictions. Despite numerous reports of injuries caused by defective electronic cigarettes, the House Agriculture and FDA Appropriations bill, which was approved by the Appropriations Committee in July, contains a provision that would exempt e-cigarettes that are already on the market from being retroactively reviewed for safety once the rule is approved. In her letter, Dingell urged the FDA to maintain a provision in the final rule that would require pre-market approval of any electronic cigarette that was on the market after February 15, 2007. “This provision is essential to ensuring these devices are safe for use and do not have a negative impact on human health,” continued Dingell. “It is my hope that this important regulation is finalized as soon as possible because every day we wait is another day that the American people are put at risk of using faulty products.” Anyone who has experienced an adverse event while using an electronic cigarette is encouraged to submit the problem to the FDA’s Safety Reporting Portal. The FDA will use the information to help protect consumers from defective products and ensure proper oversight.
08.20.2015	DEARBORN, MI – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement today in response to Vietnam’s recent changes in its exchange rate policy. “Vietnam’s currency devaluation is another disturbing example of what will happen if we fail to address currency manipulation in the Trans-Pacific Partnership. When countries like Vietnam and China are permitted to cheat and subsidize their exports, American workers lose – plain and simple. We cannot sit back and watch more good paying manufacturing jobs move overseas because our trading partners refuse to play by the rules. “We need strong, enforceable protections against currency manipulation in any trade agreement, and it is my hope that the administration will stand up for American workers and hold our trading partners accountable for unfair practices.”
08.20.2015	DEARBORN, MI – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today announced that the Dearborn and Lincoln Park Fire Departments will receive funding for safety and operations through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program. Dearborn will receive a $995,572 grant to purchase new equipment for firefighter training and health, and Lincoln Park will receive a $6,046 grant to purchase new helmets for each firefighter. “Our firefighters and first responders are some of the bravest men and women I know, and they put their lives on the line every day to keep our communities safe,” said Dingell. “This funding will ensure they are always well equipped to protect our families and stay safe on the job.” “We are really appreciative of this federal support that allows us to purchase state-of-the-art training, safety and health equipment,” said Dearborn Fire Chief Joseph Murray. “This grant will allow us to provide hands-on training, and help us equip, train and ensure the fitness of our employees.” “The Lincoln Park Fire Department and its members are extremely pleased to be selected as one of the several fire departments to receive an Assistance to Firefighters Grant through FEMA,” said Lincoln Park Fire Chief Al Dyer. “With these funds our department will be able to provide every single member a new fire helmet which will comply with the latest industry standards and requirements to provide a superior level of protection to our firefighters, while protecting our community. It is through grants like these that our firefighters are able to be outfitted with the most advanced technology on the market, allowing them to perform their job with a greater sense of confidence and security in the equipment they are utilizing.” The AFG program awards grants directly to fire departments and EMS organizations that are unaffiliated with a hospital to enhance their response capabilities and to more effectively protect the health and safety of the public and emergency response personnel with respect to fire and all other hazards.
08.19.2015	DEARBORN, MI – As part of Start-Up Day Across America, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today visited local entrepreneurs at Ann Arbor SPARK to showcase the innovation and job creation taking place at their companies. Start-Up Day is a bipartisan effort to raise awareness about the important role startup companies play in our economy by providing local entrepreneurs with an opportunity to educate their representatives about challenges they are facing. “Fast growing startup companies are no longer unique to Silicon Valley, Austin or Boulder,” said Dingell. “In southeast Michigan and across the country, entrepreneurs are reshaping industries from retail to healthcare to education, and driving the majority of job growth in the United States. We want southeast Michigan to be a hub for these emerging companies, and we’re already well-positioned to lead the way. The entrepreneurs I met today came to Michigan – and want to stay in Michigan – because of the collaborative work environment, the permanent talent pool from our world class colleges and universities, and the support provided by public-private partnerships like Ann Arbor SPARK. In Congress, I’m committed to creating an environment that helps our entrepreneurs innovate, grow and create jobs in southeast Michigan for decades to come.” “As we’ve seen in Ann Arbor, especially with the revitalization of our Liberty Street corridor, startups have a tremendous, positive impact on our economy,” said Paul Krutko, Ann Arbor SPARK president and CEO. “These growing companies attract investment to our region, create jobs here, and are the root of our ability to compete, globally, as the 'Startup City' where innovation businesses want to grow. We’re proud that SPARK Central plays an important role in supporting Ann Arbor’s startups and entrepreneurial ecosystem.” The SPARK Central Business Incubator provides business space, services and support to help entrepreneurs launch and develop innovation-based technology. With reduced overhead costs, entrepreneurs can put more money back into growing their business. Dingell was joined at the event by local entrepreneurs who graduated from SPARK’s incubator program, including: • Grace Hsia, CEO of Warmilu, which makes high-tech warming blankets to help end hypothermia as a leading cause of infant mortality around the world • Danny Ellis and Tom Brady, co-founders of SkySpecs, which develops drone technology, including the Guardian to help drones automatically avoid obstacles • Len Gauger, founder and CEO of Message Blocks, a cloud-based event management system to handle ticketing, RSVPs, hosting and other tasks for large events • Sandy Aldrich, co-founder of Stridepost, a digital to-do tracker, calendar and reward system to help parents establish good habits with their kids Skip Simms, senior vice president of Ann Arbor SPARK, Donna Doleman, senior vice president, operations and communications, and Bill Mayer, vice president, entrepreneurial services also joined the discussion. Startups add enormous value to local and national economies, producing an average of 3 million jobs annually. According to Start-up America, 27% of start-ups are owned by women and 33% of start-ups are owned by minorities. These start-up companies are involved in a variety of industries, including technology, retail, healthcare, entertainment, consulting, and education. In Congress, Dingell is working to create a better climate for startups to get off the ground and grow, including investing in infrastructure, research and development and STEM education, and ensuring sustainable and usable capital is accessible to entrepreneurs.
08.18.2015	DEARBORN, MI – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) will continue her “Congress In Your Community” tour this week with stops in Gibraltar, Dearborn and Taylor. Dingell is hosting Congress In Your Community events throughout Michigan’s 12th District in August to provide constituents an opportunity to conveniently discuss issues and concerns with her and her staff and take advantage of services provided through the office. The events are open to constituents across the 12th District and no appointment is necessary. For questions or additional information, please call Dingell’s Dearborn office at 313-278-2936. Additional events will be announced throughout August. Wednesday, August 19, 2015 WHAT: Dingell to host Congress In Your Community in Gibraltar WHEN: 5-6 p.m., Wednesday, August 19 WHERE: Gibraltar Farmers Market, Boblo Pavilion, located at the intersection of North Gibraltar and South Gibraltar Roads, Gibraltar Friday, August 21, 2015 WHAT: Dingell to host Congress In Your Community in Dearborn WHEN: 9-10 a.m., Friday, August 21 WHERE: Dearborn Farmers and Artisans Market, located on Michigan Avenue between Mason and Howard Streets, Dearborn -- WHAT: Dingell to host Congress In Your Community in Taylor WHEN: 1:30-2:30 p.m., Friday, August 21 WHERE: Taylor Farmers Market, Sheridan Center Open Air Pavilion inside Heritage Park, Taylor
08.14.2015	DEARBORN, MI – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement in celebration of the 80th anniversary of Social Security, which President Franklin Delano Roosevelt signed into law on August 14, 1935. “Today, we celebrate a promise made to our seniors 80 years ago – a promise of economic security and dignity for every American after a lifetime of hard work. “Social Security is now part of who we are as a country and how we care for our seniors. Two out of every three retirees rely on Social Security for the majority of their income, and millions of families depend on the program for disability or survivor benefits after the loss of a loved one. Most importantly, in 80 years Social Security has never missed a payment. That is something we can all be proud of. “As we mark this landmark anniversary, we recognize that Social Security faces new challenges. We have to ensure that the program is on solid financial footing so that the next generation can have access to these critical benefits as they age. But we also need to strengthen the program so it is more responsive to the needs of our seniors. Our seniors have done so much for our country, and it is our obligation as a nation to make sure this bedrock program is meeting their needs – today and for generations to come.” This week, Congresswoman Dingell and former Congressman John Dingell joined health scholars at the University of Michigan to mark the 80th anniversary of Social Security and the 50th anniversary of Medicare. John Dingell’s father, John Dingell, Sr. cosponsored the legislation that created Social Security and over the years, both Dingells fought to protect the program and make it sustainable for the future.
08.13.2015	DEARBORN, MI – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today announced that the Dearborn Fire Department will receive a $69,753 Fire Prevention & Safety grant through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program. The funding will be used to help provide and install smoke detectors for all Dearborn residents. “Our firefighters and first responders report to duty every day to keep our community safe,” said Dingell. “This funding will help provide the tools they need to do their jobs safer and smarter and protect our friends and families through prevention.” “There was a great reduction in fire last year, but it’s still easy to get distracted and that’s dangerous,” said Dearborn Mayor Jack O’Reilly. “This grant will help ensure we create opportunities to save lives in the community.” “The importance of smoke detectors cannot be underestimated,” said Dearborn Fire Chief Joseph Murray. “Every year there are fatalities linked to not having functioning detectors. We want every home to be provided prevention.” The AFG program awards grants directly to fire departments and EMS organizations that are unaffiliated with a hospital to enhance their response capabilities and to more effectively protect the health and safety of the public and emergency response personnel with respect to fire and other emergencies. Since 2001, the AFG program has helped firefighters and other first responders obtain critical emergency response equipment, protective gear, firefighting and emergency vehicles, and training. For more information about Fire Prevention & Safety Grants, please click here.
08.12.2015	DEARBORN, MI – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today announced that Packard Health of Ann Arbor will receive a $541,667 grant from the U.S. Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) to open a new health center in Ypsilanti and provide health care services at the Delonis Center Homeless Shelter in Ann Arbor. The grant was awarded through the New Access Point program, which seeks to expand access to primary care for underserved communities. “Every American deserves access to quality, affordable health care,” said Dingell. “Packard Health and other community health centers play a vital role in ensuring our most needy citizens can obtain the care they need. This funding will help Packard Health expand their services and reach even more Michigan families.” “This New Access Point funding allows Packard Health to open a Health Center site in Ypsilanti and reach out to vulnerable homeless clients and integrate their care into an established primary care practice,” said Raymond Rion, MD, Executive Director of Packard Health. “We are delighted to have the opportunity to serve more members of our community. We have an extraordinary team who believe in our mission to be the medical home for people and families from all backgrounds. Our staff’s reputation for high-quality care attracts commercially insured and self-paying patients, along with those enrolled in public assistance or lacking health coverage.” Dingell worked with Packard Health and HRSA to demonstrate the need for additional health center funding for the region. Health centers serve more than 558,000 people in Michigan, a number that is quickly growing. Nearly all patients are low-income, with 70% having family incomes at or below the poverty line. Many of these patients would otherwise be isolated from traditional forms of medical care because of where they live, the language they speak and higher levels of complex health care needs. Packard Health is a non-profit primary care medical practice that has delivered patient-centered care to thousands of Washtenaw County residents since 1973. Packard Health is the third largest county-wide provider for those without means to seek adequate health care, offering a full range of services from chronic disease care and coordination to nutrition education and support, and mental health care.
08.12.2015	DEARBORN, MI – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement today in response to China’s recent changes in its exchange rate policy, which included setting the value of the renminbi nearly 2 percent against the dollar, and Republican Presidential Candidate Donald Trump’s comments in Birch Run, Michigan. The devaluation is the largest in two decades. “While Mr. Trump and I don’t agree on many issues, his comments in Birch Run, Michigan regarding China’s currency devaluation were spot on. Countries like China that cheat and don’t play by the rules hurt good paying American jobs – like the ones we have right here in Michigan in the auto industry, and it needs to stop. I am pleased Mr. Trump made this point loudly and clearly when he visited Michigan. “China’s recent action is a reminder that we must address currency manipulation. While the long-term impact of the policy change is not yet clear, there is no question that American workers deserve to be able to compete on a level global playing field. For that reason, we must enact strong, enforceable protections against currency manipulation so we can protect American workers if our trading partners engage in unfair practices. We’ve already seen what unfair currency practices by South Korea and Japan have done to our auto industry, and we cannot afford to lose more American jobs because other countries aren’t playing by the rules. “I hope Republicans and Democrats can work together to stop China and others from cheating the system and stand up for American workers.”
08.06.2015	DEARBORN, MI – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today announced that the Trenton Fire Department will receive a $180,662 grant through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program. The funding will help firefighters and first responders obtain critically needed equipment and other resources. “Our firefighters and first responders put themselves in harm’s way every day to keep our communities safe,” said Dingell. “This funding will help ensure they have the most up-to-date equipment to save lives and do their job protecting our community.” The AFG program awards grants directly to fire departments and EMS organizations that are unaffiliated with a hospital to enhance their response capabilities and to more effectively protect the health and safety of the public and emergency response personnel with respect to fire and other emergencies.
08.04.2015	DEARBORN, MI – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today announced she will host “Congress in your Community” events throughout Michigan’s 12th District in August. “We want our office to be as open and accessible as possible to people of the 12th District,” said Dingell. “We’re bringing these public office hours to events in local communities to give constituents an opportunity to conveniently discuss issues and concerns with me and my staff and take advantage of the services our office provides in their own backyard.” Dingell’s Congress in your Community events are open to constituents across the 12th District and no appointment is necessary. For questions or additional information please call Dingell’s Dearborn office at 313-278-2936. Additional events will be announced throughout August. Tuesday, August 4, 2015 WHAT: Dingell to host Congress in Your Community in Ypsilanti WHEN: 3-4 p.m., Tuesday, August 4 WHERE: Downtown Ypsilanti Farmers Market, 16 S. Washington St., Ypsilanti -- WHAT: Dingell to host Congress in Your Community in Brownstown WHEN: 5-6 p.m., Tuesday, August 4 WHERE: Brownstown Farmers Market, 21313 Telegraph Rd., Brownstown Charter Township Thursday, August 6, 2015 WHAT: Dingell to host Congress in Your Community in Wyandotte WHEN: 1-2 p.m., Thursday, August 6 WHERE: Elm Street and First Street, Wyandotte -- WHAT: Dingell to host Congress in Your Community in Pittsfield Township WHEN: 5:30-6:30 p.m., Thursday, August 6 WHERE: Pittsfield Township Farmers Market, 6201 West Michigan Ave., Ann Arbor Friday, August 7, 2015 WHAT: Dingell to host Congress in Your Community in Allen Park WHEN: 2-3 p.m., Friday, August 7 WHERE: Allen Park Farmers Market, Philomene Blvd., between Park Ave. and Allen Rd., Allen Park Sunday, August 9, 2015 WHAT: Dingell to host Congress in Your Community in Lincoln Park WHEN: 11:30 a.m. - 12:30p.m., Sunday, August 9 WHERE: Lincoln Park Farmers Market, corner of Fort. St. and Southfield Rd., Lincoln Park
08.03.2015	DEARBORN, MI – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12), ranking member of the House Natural Resources Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, issued the following statement after Alpha Natural Resources, one of the four largest coal companies in the country, filed for chapter 11 bankruptcy, highlighting the risks to taxpayers of future mine cleanup costs resulting from companies defaulting on self-insured performance bonds. “The bankruptcy is exactly what we've feared for months. Coal companies with weak balance sheets – no matter how large they are – should not be allowed to self-bond for projects on federal lands. Taxpayers deserve to know they won't be left on the hook for billions in cleanup costs if a big miner goes bust.” In June, Dingell warned of consequences of self-bonding by financially distressed coal producers at an Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee hearing and wrote to Chairman Louie Gohmert (TX-01) seeking a bipartisan investigation. The letter can be read here.
07.31.2015	DEARBORN, MI – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement today after negotiators failed to reach an agreement on the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP). “Today’s announcement confirms what we’ve been saying for months: the Trans-Pacific Partnership is the wrong track for American workers and American businesses. We need a new approach to trade in this country. “Manufacturing is the backbone of our nation’s economy. Our workers are the best in the world, but they need to compete on a level playing field. That means our trading partners must respect the rights of workers to organize, provide basic protections against unjust and unsafe conditions, and adhere to internationally recognized environmental standards. “In addition, we must take a number of specific steps to reach a level playing field in the automotive market. Japan, which accounts for nearly half of the economic output of our TPP partners, has a historically closed auto market that unfairly disadvantages American automakers and the hardworking families we represent. For that reason, auto tariff phase outs in future trade agreements must be sufficient, and we must have strong rules of origin for automobiles and auto parts. Further, any agreement must include strong, enforceable protections against currency manipulation in the text of an agreement. “We remain concerned the TPP would have failed to adequately achieve these standards. American workers deserve better, and today represents an opportunity to begin pursuing a new approach to trade that ends unfair practices by our trading partners and puts the United States on a level playing field for the 21st Century.”
07.30.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) announced she will welcome a new chief of staff in her Washington, D.C. office as her current chief Karen Defilippi, begins a new role as political advisor at EMILY’s List. “We are so thankful for Karen’s work and leadership of Team Dingell and wish her all the best as she moves to EMILY’s List to help elect more women, an issue I care deeply about,” said Dingell. “We are excited to welcome Peter Chandler, who brings two decades of political and legislative experience, to our team and know that we are well-equipped to meet the challenges and opportunities ahead for the people of the 12th District.” Chandler comes to the Dingell team with 22 years of campaign, political and legislative experience both at the state and federal level. He most recently ran the House Whip Operation to fight Trade Promotion Authority (Fast Track) on behalf of his client the Oregon Fair Trade Campaign. A native of Biddeford, Maine, Chandler previously concluded 12 years as chief of staff to Veteran Affairs Ranking Member Congressman Mike Michaud (ME-02). He has done extensive political consulting and training, including work for the Democratic Legislative Campaign Committee. “Having been gone from Capitol Hill almost a year, it is exciting to come back to work for a member of Congress who takes her job of getting things done so seriously for the people she represents,” said Chandler. “I look forward to working with the Congresswoman and her great team to continue fighting for the issues that matter most to Michigan.”
07.28.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and Congressman Tim Murphy (PA-18) announced the formation of the bipartisan Congressional Cancer Prevention Caucus. The caucus, which is the first of its kind, was formed in collaboration with Bill Couzens, founder of National Cancer Prevention Day and the non-profit organization Next Generation Choices Foundation, widely known as Less Cancer, to expand education and awareness about cancer prevention. “Cancer impacts nearly every American family,” said Dingell. “As we learn more about this devastating disease, we learn there are critical steps we can take every day to help people reduce their risk, and we need to ensure that message is reaching the majority of Americans. I am proud to lead the Cancer Prevention Caucus with Congressman Murphy, in collaboration with Less Cancer, to help families make informed, healthful decisions that could save lives and, ultimately, bring us closer to a world where cancer is considered a preventable disease.” “Every family has been touched by the heartbreak of cancer, including mine,” said Murphy. “I’m honored to join my colleague Congresswoman Dingell in the creation of the Cancer Prevention Caucus to advance policy efforts that will boost awareness and educate Americans from coast to coast about ways to prevent these destructive diseases.” “We all have felt the excruciating pain that cancer brings,” said Couzens. “I am mindful of America's many losses from cancer and the suffering that accompanies each one. Now is the time to work on stopping cancer before it starts and not only work to halt the rising incidences of cancer, but ensure cancer remains in the past for the next generation. I have much gratitude and am deeply moved by Congresswoman Dingell and Congressman Murphy’s pioneering leadership and bravery in ending cancer once and for all.” The American Cancer Society estimates that more than 1.6 million Americans will receive a cancer diagnosis this year and approximately 589,430 people will die from this devastating disease. The Congressional Cancer Prevention Caucus is designed to help stop this staggering trend by providing a bipartisan forum to engage Members of Congress, their staff, the medical community, advocacy groups, academia and the public on lifestyle and environmental factors that can reduce cancer risk. The caucus will seek to increase education and awareness and advance policy solutions that improve public health and help prevent cancer before it starts.
07.27.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement today after Malaysia was upgraded from the Tier 3 to the Tier 2 Watch List in the U.S. Department of State’s 2015 Trafficking in Persons Report. “It is deeply concerning that the Administration has upgraded Malaysia’s status in today’s Trafficking in Persons Report, despite Malaysia’s continuing record of human rights abuses. In recent months, we have seen shocking reports of migrants forced to live in barbed wire cages and the discovery of 139 graves of suspected human trafficking victims in the Malaysian jungles. “Politics – such as trade negotiations – have no place in this critical assessment of human trafficking practices across the globe. It is unconscionable to turn a blind eye to Malaysia’s human rights abuses in order to further a trade agenda that fails to live up to our country’s values.”
07.23.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representatives Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and Ed Whitfield (KY-01) were joined this week by a bipartisan coalition of 52 Members of Congress in sending a letter to President Obama asking for his assistance to ensure the repeated calls for urgency in skin cancer prevention are heeded at the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The full letter can be read here. Currently, eight sunscreen ingredient applications have been pending at the FDA, some for over a decade, without final decisions despite enactment of the bipartisan Sunscreen Innovation Act signed into law last November. “Skin cancer is a growing epidemic in this country that is only getting worse according to the U.S. Surgeon General. Yet, Americans have gone more than a decade without the kinds of innovative sunscreen products citizens in other countries have enjoyed for years," said Dingell. “This year alone, five million Americans will be diagnosed with skin cancer. We owe it to them to work together to solve this public health crisis.” “When the Sunscreen Innovation Act was signed into law last year, Americans expected that they would soon be able to get the latest in sunscreen technology long available to citizens of countries all over the world. Unfortunately, eight months have passed and the FDA has yet to approve any of these sunscreens,” said Whitfield. “We are hopeful this letter to the President will engage the White House and help solve this sunscreen backlog at the FDA.” Background: Skin cancer is the most common form of cancer diagnosed in the U.S. Each year there are more new cases of skin cancer — including melanoma — than the combined incidence of breast cancer, prostate cancer, lung cancer and colon cancer. From 1975-2011, rates of melanoma in young men and women ages 20-39 years increased by 34% in men and by 84% in women. According to the Surgeon General, nearly 5 million Americans are diagnosed with skin cancer and one person dies every hour of every day from melanoma, the deadliest skin cancer. The cost to treat skin cancer is over $8 billion, which doesn’t include the pain and suffering for families that lose their loved ones from the disease. The Surgeon General and CDC both regularly call on Americans to wear sunscreen to prevent skin cancer. The bipartisan Sunscreen Innovation Act (Public Law No: 113-195) was introduced to address the bottlenecks identified by FDA as the causes of delays in approving new sunscreen ingredients. The legislation and subsequent law streamlined the new sunscreen ingredient approval process to ensure that new sunscreen ingredients receive a transparent review within a predictable timeframe. The law was intended to ensure the American public gains access to the latest safe, effective and innovative sunscreen products to protect against the sun’s most harmful rays. Since 2002, eight new sunscreen applications have been filed and are still awaiting final decisions 13 years later. New sunscreen technologies currently awaiting approval in the U.S. have been widely available in Europe, Asia, and Central and South America, in some cases for more than 15 years.
07.22.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) introduced bipartisan legislation, H.R. 3130, the Zero Tolerance for Domestic Abusers Act, to protect women who are victims of domestic violence and stalking by closing loopholes that allow abusers and stalkers access to guns. “No woman and no child should ever live in fear of their life or their safety because of domestic violence,” said Dingell. “We should do everything we can to prevent families from experiencing senseless tragedies. This bipartisan, commonsense bill will help ensure every woman and child is protected – and it will save lives.” “As a society, we should have zero tolerance for domestic abuse and need to do everything we can to stop domestic violence from turning into domestic murder,” Dold said. “This commonsense, bipartisan solution protects women and keeps communities safe, while respecting the rights of responsible, law-abiding citizens.” Congresswoman Dingell and Congressman Dold announced the bipartisan legislation today at an event co-hosted by Americans for Responsible Solutions, the gun violence prevention organization founded by former Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords and her husband, Navy combat veteran and retired NASA astronaut Mark Kelly. “I applaud Congresswoman Dingell and Congressman Dold for doing the responsible thing and offering a commonsense, bipartisan solution that would help protect vulnerable women and their families. In so many communities around our country, guns and domestic violence are a deadly, tragic mix. There is no doubt: dangerous people with guns are a threat to women, and the loopholes in our laws are one reason we have such a problem in our country with gun violence against women,” said Congresswoman Giffords. “By closing the loopholes that let abusers and stalkers get guns, this law would make our country a safer place to live - and it would save lives. I am grateful to Congresswoman Dingell and Congressman Dold for standing up for common sense, and I hope their colleagues in Congress join them in supporting this badly needed legislation.” The Zero Tolerance for Domestic Abusers Act makes two commonsense updates to federal law to address existing loopholes that make it easy for perpetrators of dating violence and those convicted of misdemeanor stalking to legally access guns. The bill would: Ensure people who have abused dating partners are prohibited from buying or owning firearms: Current federal law prohibits someone from owning a gun if they are convicted of abusing a spouse, someone they live with, or someone they have a child with from getting guns. But federal law does not include people who have abused a current or former dating partner. Abuse of a dating partner is as unacceptable as domestic abuse, plain and simple. Close the loophole that lets some convicted stalkers access guns: This legislation clarifies existing law to make clear that convicted stalkers cannot legally purchase a firearm. Stalking is a sadly accurate predictor of future violence. One study of female murder victims found that 76 percent of women murdered by a current or former intimate partner experienced stalking in the year preceding the murder. Since 2008, states have enacted over 30 new laws addressing the nexus of access to guns and domestic violence. In 2014 alone, six states enacted laws to protect domestic violence victims: Indiana, Louisiana, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Washington, and Wisconsin. In 2015, leaders in Alabama, Delaware, Louisiana, Nevada, New Jersey, Oregon, South Carolina, Vermont and Washington have also passed similar legislation to protect women and families from abusers with guns. The Zero Tolerance for Domestic Abusers Act would make these protections the national standard. For more information on the bill, please click here.
07.17.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and Congressman Tim Walberg (MI-07) co-hosted a Veterans Fair in Ann Arbor today to connect veterans and their families with the resources earned through their service. The event offered participants an opportunity to meet with veterans employment specialists, Veterans Affairs counselors and veterans services organizations. “We owe our veterans and their families a great deal of gratitude, and it’s our responsibility to serve them as well as they served us,” said Rep. Dingell. “Today’s Veterans Fair provided information about the resources available to veterans and their families to ensure they can take advantage of all the benefits they have earned.” “Our commitment to the men and women who bravely served our country does not end when they return home. Caring for our veterans is an issue that knows no political parties, and I’m proud to work with Rep. Dingell to help ensure America’s heroes have access to the very best care and resources that they deserve,” said Rep. Walberg. Veterans and their families from Michigan’s 12th District who need help with the VA or another federal agency are encouraged to call Dingell’s Dearborn office at (313) 278-2936. Veterans from the 7th District can call Congressman Walberg’s office Jackson office at (517) 780-9075. Organizations that participated in the Veterans Fair included: American Legion Department of Michigan Buddy-to-Buddy Catholic Social Services of Washtenaw County Family Assistance Center – National Guard Family Programs Governor Snyder's Office – Constituent Services Michigan Attorney General - Senior Brigade program Michigan Veterans Affairs Agency – Veterans Services Division Michigan Veterans Community Action Team (VCAT) – Region 9 Mobile Vet Center Operation: Military Resources State of Michigan Workforce Development Agency – Veterans Outreach Division Team Red, White, and Blue University of Michigan - Veterans and Military Services / Consortium of Veteran Educators VA Ann Arbor Healthcare System VA Detroit Benefits Office / Vocational Rehabilitation & Employment VA Loan Guaranty Division VFW Department of Michigan Service Office Vietnam Veterans of America Washtenaw County Department of Veterans Affairs Washtenaw County Veterans Recovery Court
07.16.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and Congressman Tim Walberg (MI-07) will be in Ann Arbor TOMORROW from 9-11 a.m. co-hosting a Veterans Fair to provide veterans and their family members with access to resources earned through their service. More than 20 veterans employment specialists, Veterans Affairs counselors, and veterans service organizations will participate. WHAT: Veterans Resource FairWHEN: Tomorrow, Friday, July 17, 9-11 a.m.WHERE: Scio Township Hall; 827 North Zeeb Road; Ann Arbor, MI Participating Organizations: American Legion Department of Michigan Buddy-to-Buddy Catholic Social Services of Washtenaw County Family Assistance Center – National Guard Family Programs Governor Snyder's Office – Constituent Services Michigan Attorney General - Senior Brigade program Michigan Veterans Affairs Agency – Veterans Services Division Michigan Veterans Community Action Team (VCAT) – Region 9 Mobile Vet Center Operation: Military Resources State of Michigan Workforce Development Agency – Veterans Outreach Division Team Red, White, and Blue University of Michigan - Veterans and Military Services / Consortium of Veteran Educators VA Ann Arbor Healthcare System VA Detroit Benefits Office / Vocational Rehabilitation & Employment VA Loan Guaranty Division VFW Department of Michigan Service Office Vietnam Veterans of America Washtenaw County Department of Veterans Affairs Washtenaw County Veterans Recovery Court
07.15.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today applauded Ford Motor Company’s decision to build the all-new Lincoln Continental in Michigan at the Flat Rock Assembly Plant. “I remain concerned about small car production staying here in the U.S., but I cannot tell you how happy I am to know that the Flat Rock plant will be home to the all-new Lincoln Continental in 2016. This will shore up our manufacturing sector and keeps good-paying jobs in Southeast Michigan. We must keep manufacturing in this country.”
07.14.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement on the Obama Administration’s announcement that it has reached an agreement with Iran. “I believe one of the biggest threats to world peace is a nuclear Iran. I salute the hard work of many in this administration and past administrations in trying to address this difficult issue and constrain Iran's efforts to develop nuclear arms. A nuclear-armed Iran is unacceptable to the United States and the rest of the world. “I thank President Obama, Vice President Biden, Secretary Kerry and the rest of the team for respecting the role that Congress has in this process. I will study the agreement announced today and all of its implications very carefully before making any decision to vote for or against it. This will probably be one of the most important votes of my career and one I do not take lightly. I look forward to the briefings and information that will be provided.”
07.14.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – As the 50th anniversary of Medicare approaches on June 30th, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today joined Congresswoman Jan Schakowsky (IL-09), the National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare, and more than 50 seniors and advocates in Washington to call for expanded coverage for hearing loss treatments. “The reality is that while Medicare provides critical health coverage to millions of beneficiaries there are very serious gaps which exist,” said Dingell. “Today more than 70 percent of seniors between the ages of 65 and 84 who need hearing aids don’t get them. This leads to isolation, depression and some studies have documented early dementia. We need to fix this, and the Medicare Hearing Aid Coverage Act of 2015, the first bill I introduced as a member of Congress, would allow Medicare to cover hearing aids. No one should feel isolated, confused or shut out from the world because they can’t afford the treatment they need. An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure.” “This is a really serious issue,” said Schakowsky. “It costs thousands of dollars for hearing aids yet the vast majority of seniors who need them don’t have them because they simply can’t afford it. That comes with a high cost to society and healthcare costs in Medicare.” “I’ve been on both sides of the coin,” said Ann Liming, former Hard of Hearing Specialist for the Michigan Division on Deaf, DeafBlind and Hard of Hearing, who also suffers from hearing loss. “I’ve seen the frustration, I’ve shared the tears. I know how badly we all want to hear. We’re not, as we get older, put on a shelf…we still want to be involved, we still want to make a contribution, we still want to be a meaningful part of our family’s lives. So it’s fantastic to have this bill, to hear these people and to hear their strong commitment to getting this bill passed.” “The number one call Hearing Loss Association of America receives is about the cost of hearing aids. Seniors who cannot afford two $2000 hearing aids on a fixed income are scared they will no longer be able to hear,” said Lise Hamlin, director of public policy at Hearing Loss Association of America. “ We are thrilled that Representative Debbie Dingell has introduced this important legislation that will fill a huge gap in Medicare benefits.” Hearing loss is the third most prevalent chronic condition in the United States, affecting nearly 48 million Americans. Left untreated, it has serious emotional, social and medical consequences for older adults. Research has shown older adults with hearing loss are 32% more likely to require hospitalization, face a 24% increased risk for cognitive impairment and increasingly suffer from isolation and depression. “We are beginning to understand now that there are direct biological pathways through which age-related hearing loss, which all of us will experience to some degree, directly contributes to even more serious critical outcomes which are incredibly expensive. Hearing loss reaches far beyond quality of life issues,” said Dr. Frank Lin, M.D., Ph.D., Johns Hopkins School of Medicine and Bloomberg School of Public Health. “Allowing Medicare to cover the cost of hearing aids would not only improve the health and independence of millions of seniors, it makes good economic and policy sense by potentially preventing the costly effects of hearing loss through increased hospitalizations, cases of depression and cognitive decline,” said Max Richtman, President/CEO of the National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare. “Not covering routine hearing exams, hearing aids, or exams for fitting hearing aids leaves far too many seniors vulnerable. Medicare covers testing strips for diabetics and wheelchairs for people who can no longer walk, there’s no reason people suffering from hearing loss should be denied coverage for hearing aids.” For more information on Congresswoman Dingell’s bill, HR 1653, the Medicare Hearing Aid Coverage Act of 2015, please click here. Today, the National Committee to Preserve Social Security & Medicare Foundation also issued a comprehensive Hearing Loss and Medicare Issue Brief detailing the research findings on hearing loss impacts and the policy prescriptions needed to address the challenges hearing loss poses for millions of seniors and the Medicare program itself.
07.08.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today sent a letter to Secretary of State John Kerry, requesting information about steps the State Department is taking to combat the deadly outbreak of dengue fever in Yemen, where many of her constituents are trapped amid ongoing hostilities. “My constituents are reporting that they have family members in Yemen who are suffering from dengue fever and have no access to medication, hospitals, doctors, or in some cases even clean drinking water,” Dingell said. “U.S. leadership is required to contain this outbreak and ensure that patients receive the treatment they need. The people of Yemen need assistance now to combat this deadly disease.” The World Health Organization (WHO) reports that there are more than 3,000 cases of dengue fever in Yemen, and some outside groups have reported twice as many cases as the WHO estimates. Patients suffering from dengue fever require fluids, monitoring by a physician, and hospitalization in severe cases. “A negotiated solution to the ongoing conflict is the best way to address this emerging public health crisis in Yemen,” Dingell wrote in her letter to Secretary Kerry. “I applaud your efforts in starting a dialogue with the Saudis, the UN, and other relevant parties to find a peaceful solution to this conflict. However, the people of Yemen need assistance now to combat this outbreak of dengue fever.” The letter can be read in full here. Michigan is home to one of the largest populations of Arab Americans in the country, and some 9 percent of the Arab American community in the Detroit and Dearborn area has roots in Yemen. Congresswoman Dingell has been in close contact with State Department officials since the crisis in Yemen began. She wrote to Secretary Kerry in April urging the State Department to prioritize the evacuation of American citizens in Yemen and improve communication with families. To read the letter, please click here. Additionally, in May, the House of Representatives passed Dingell’s amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), which expresses the sense of the Congress that the President should exercise all available authorities to evacuate United States citizens and nationals in Yemen as soon as possible. For more information, please click here.
07.06.2015	DEARBORN, MI – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) is launching a contest inviting residents of Michigan’s 12th Congressional District to submit photos and vote on her new Facebook and Twitter cover photo. “We want to capture the spirit of the 12th District. It’s one of the best places in this country to live - our parks, waterways, festivals, parades, churches, schools, food, and countless places to enjoy the outdoors or snuggle inside by the fire.” said Dingell. “It's who we are, and we want others to see the 12th through the eyes of those who live here and share with others the best of our communities online.” Photos featuring the 12 District may be submitted by the close of business on Wednesday, July 15th in three ways: Post the photo on Instagram with the hashtag, #MI12PicContest Tag @RepDebDingell on Twitter with the same hashtag, #MI12PicContest Tag @RepDebbieDingell on Facebook with the same hashtag and a description of the photo Photos should be submitted by the photographer, along with the location where the photo was taken. The three finalists will be uploaded to Congresswoman Dingell’s Facebook page and the photo with the most likes by 5 p.m. on Monday, July 20th will become Dingell’s new cover photo on Facebook and Twitter. Dingell also recently launched a newly revamped website to better serve residents of the 12th District. The website includes a new “Action Center” where constituents can easily access information about services the office provides; a voting center that tracks the Congresswoman’s recent votes and provides information about active bills in Congress; and “Debbie’s Blog,” where the Congresswoman shares weekly posts about why she voted the way she did. Residents of the 12th District are encouraged to stay in touch and contact the office anytime.
07.04.2015	DEARBORN, MI – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today released the following statement honoring Independence Day. “Today marks 239 years since our Founding Fathers came together in Philadelphia to plot a new course that would change the history of the world. The words of the Declaration of Independence are as true today as they were then: ‘that all are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights, that among these are life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness.’ “The declaration continues to be the moral compass for our great nation and reminds us of what it truly means to be an American. Today is a celebration of these values and of the brave men and women who have served our country and made the ultimate sacrifice for our freedoms. “As we celebrate with friends and family, let us pause to honor and thank those who have served. And may we remember that whatever may divide us, we are first and foremost Americans. We are all united by pride and love for our country. And our country is stronger when every American may pursue the Founders’ ideals of life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness.”
06.29.2015	ANN ARBOR, MI – In advance of the White House Conference on Aging in July, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today hosted a community conversation on long-term care in Ann Arbor. More than 100 seniors and caregivers joined the conversation, which offered participants an opportunity to share issues and concerns, meet with representatives from local agencies and organizations, and hear from experts in the field of long-term care and elder care. The event is the first in a series of conversations Dingell is holding across the district. “We need to ensure that seniors are able to age with the dignity and security they deserve,” Dingell said. “Today, many people are facing the issue of long-term care – for themselves, for parents, for spouses and other family members. Helping seniors get the care they need in the setting of their choice, while remaining active, contributing members of society is something we can all agree on. We need to work with our communities and stakeholders to improve the long-term care system in this country, support caregivers, and improve Medicare and Medicaid.” “It is gratifying to know that Congresswoman Dingell is continuing to advocate for the needs of all of our citizens,” said Mandy Grewal, Pittsfield Township Supervisor. “We were very happy to welcome her to Pittsfield Township for this critical conversation.” “As our population continues to age, we must ensure there are long-term supports in place that will provide seniors and caregivers with the highest quality of life,” said Jim McGuire, Director of Research, Policy and Advocacy at the Area Agency on Aging 1B. “I applaud Congresswoman Dingell for bringing this issue to the forefront, and was pleased to be part of today’s event.” “Given the amount of folks in the room today, this is obviously a pressing concern for many in the community besides me,” said Ann Arbor resident Susan Beckett. “I’m so appreciative, not only that Congresswoman Dingell is working on this, but that she is taking the time to figure out what obstacles people are facing in long-term care. The resources at this event were helpful and the conversation was enlightening.” Agencies and organizations represented at the long-term care conversation included: Alzheimer’s Association Ann Arbor Center for Independent Living Area Agency on Aging 1B Lutheran Social Services of Michigan Northwestern Mutual Partners in Personal Assistance University of Michigan Housing Bureau for Seniors One of Dingell’s top priorities is bringing the country’s long-term care system into the 21st century. The first bill she introduced, the Medicare Hearing Aid Coverage Act of 2015, addresses one piece of the puzzle by providing for Medicare to cover hearing aids for beneficiaries. Last month, she released a Long-term Care Guidebook, which provides resources for people dealing with long-term care in Southeast Michigan. Seniors in the Twelfth District who need help navigating the long-term care system are encouraged to contact Dingell’s office at (313) 278-2936.
06.26.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement following today’s Supreme Court decision supporting marriage equality. Michigan couple April DeBoer and Jayne Rowse were part of the consolidated marriage case considered by the Supreme Court. “Love is love. It’s not ours to judge. Today the Supreme Court affirmed that individuals can love whomever they choose. I’m simply happy for my friends, April and Jayne, who have five wonderful children they want to be able to adopt and love. I can’t wait to attend their wedding.”
06.25.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement after the Supreme Court announced its decision in King v. Burwell. “Today the Supreme Court affirmed that the Affordable Care Act will continue this country on a path to ensuring every American has access to quality, affordable healthcare. The rejection of King v. Burwell by a vote of 6-3, sends a loud, strong message across this nation. Health care is a right not a privilege. Bottom line: today’s decision is a victory for working families across this country.”
06.19.2015	DEARBORN, MI – With the critical reauthorization deadline for the Export-Import Bank quickly approaching, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today visited Hancock Enterprises, Inc. in Taylor and Polytorx, LLC in Ann Arbor to highlight the critical role the Ex-Im Bank plays in helping Michigan manufacturers sell their goods overseas and create jobs here at home. “As I left Ann Arbor today, Polytorx Founder Luke Pinkerton told me that he doesn’t know what he will do if the Export-Import Bank is not renewed,” said Dingell. “Congress is threatening tools that help small businesses succeed in this economy. As we’re talking about international trade policy, one of the most important things we can do is help manufacturers sell products overseas and create jobs at home. The Export-Import Bank provides critical financing that levels the playing field for American businesses and supports job creation without adding a dime to the deficit.” “The Export-Import Bank improves competiveness of U.S. companies exporting overseas,” said Luke Pinkerton, Founder and Chief Technology Officer at Polytorx, LLC. “Businesses like ours rely on Export-Import Bank to provide assurance and credit when selling in foreign markets. We appreciate the Congresswoman for her efforts to support our local products and businesses.” Polytorx, LLC, the exclusive manufacturer of Helix, has exported about $74,000 worth of products with help from the Ex-Im Bank. Hancock Enterprises, Inc., a leading manufacturer and distributer of rain control products, has received about $895,000 worth of financing through the Export-Import Bank to ship their products around the world. “Our customers need credit and securing that credit is critical to our competitiveness in a global marketplace,” said Robert Joly, President of Hancock Enterprises, Inc. “Small and mid-size businesses benefit greatly from the Export-Import Bank. We hope Congress will reauthorize this program, and we appreciate Congresswoman Dingell for her efforts.” Since 2007, Ex-Im Bank has supported more than 59,690 Michigan jobs and $11 billion in export sales by 228 Michigan companies, the majority of which are small businesses. Dingell is urging House leaders to bring legislation to reauthorize the Bank to the floor for a vote before it expires on June 30. For more information on the Export-Import Bank, please click here.
06.18.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives narrowly passed legislation to grant President Obama Fast Track Authority for trade deals. “It is extremely disappointing that today, House Republican leadership jammed through legislation that will open the door to bad trade deals that will cost American jobs. “Unfortunately, today’s bill fails to address currency manipulation, the mother of all trade barriers, and gives away Congress’s ability to ensure trade legislation protects our economy and our workers. Enough is enough. The men and women we represent should be in the driver’s seat, not the backseat, when it comes to decisions that affect their life and livelihoods. It is my hope that the Senate will stop this flawed bill so we can get a better deal for American workers. “Instead of partisan gimmicks, we should be working together to enact a trade bill that puts American workers and businesses on a level playing field with our foreign competitors.”
06.16.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) offered a Motion to Recommit to H.R. 2596, the Intelligence Authorization Act. Dingell’s motion would improve airport security and help protect American citizens from cyberattacks by improving information sharing between intelligence and security agencies. Dingell delivered the following remarks on the floor of the House of Representatives. Video is available here. “Mr. Speaker, it is very timely that we are considering the Intelligence Authorization bill today, as there have been several troubling incidents that require an immediate response by Congress. I know that members on both sides of the aisle care deeply about both airport security and cybersecurity and we agree that Congress must do everything possible to keep the American people safe. “Last week we learned that there were 73 people employed at airports across the country that should have been disqualified for employment because they are on a terrorist watch list. The American people deserve the highest level of security at our airports, and quite frankly the status quo is unacceptable. While it is easy to blame TSA for this lapse in security, it is shocking that the TSA that the current policy does not authorize them to receive all terrorism-related information under current policy. “As much as we agree that reforms are needed at TSA, we should all agree that they should have all the information that they need to do their jobs. It is critical that our intelligence and security agencies are sharing information with each other because they all have the same mission – keeping the American people safe. This motion to recommit simply states that the Director of National Intelligence must provide all information on new and changing terrorist threats and updated terrorist watch list information to TSA and other federal departments. “In addition to improved information sharing, we must address cyber security. Cyberattacks are becoming a routine event in the United States and it demands an immediate response and investigation. Americans deserve peace of mind in knowing their personal information is secure and not vulnerable to hacking by cybercriminals. Yet there is a growing list of recent incidents that continue to put the privacy of everyday Americans at risk. The recent breach of over 4 million records of federal employees at the Office of Personnel Management and the hack of 80 million medical records at Anthem Health Insurance and CareFirst BlueCross BlueShield are just a few prominent examples of this growing threat. And it is working families who are paying the price. “For each cyberattack you read about in the newspapers, there are many more that go unreported or undetected. In fact, some security experts are concerned that China is now building a massive database with the personal information of American citizens. Furthermore, American companies are increasingly becoming targets of cyberattacks with a recent report estimating that this is costing our economy more than $445 billion. We simply cannot wait any longer to protect the privacy of everyday Americans from hackers and cyber criminals in Russia and China. “This motion to recommit simply requires the Director of National Intelligence to prioritize efforts to uncover and foil attempts to steal the private personal information of Americans. This is the least we can do to respond to these attacks on the privacy of the American people. “Let’s show the American people that Congress is listening to their concerns by standing up and making these common sense improvements to both airport security and cybersecurity. If you support giving TSA the tools they need to keep the American people safe and if you support increased efforts to stop cyberattacks, I urge you to join me in supporting the Motion to Recommit.”
06.12.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today released the following statement after the House voted against a flawed trade package that would have granted President Obama Fast Track Trade Authority, but failed to protect American workers. “Today was an important victory for the working men and women of Michigan and across the country, but this fight is far from over. While the House succeeded in stopping a flawed bill that fell woefully short of protecting workers displaced by trade, I am disappointed that a small majority voted to fast track trade legislation through Congress. “This is the wrong path for our country; it hurts American workers and will cost American jobs. This fight is not over and we must keep working to ensure Congress does not abdicate its responsibility to protect the men and women we represent.”
06.11.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today took to the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives to stand up for American jobs and protect the right of Congress to debate and offer amendments to major legislation. The rule to provide for consideration of the Fast Track bill narrowly cleared a procedural hurdle in the House this afternoon by a vote of 217-212. Video of the Congresswoman’s floor speech is available here. The transcript can be read below. “The rule we are considering today represents everything for me that is wrong with politics. We are currently debating the most important package of trade legislation in a generation. Yet despite how critical this issue is to American jobs, this rule does not allow any amendments. Currency manipulation, the mother of all trade barriers, has cost this country as many as five million jobs. A bipartisan group of 20 members – 10 Republicans, 10 Democrats – proposed an amendment to address this, and it is vital that Congress debate, and vote, on how to address currency manipulation as we set U.S. trade policy for the next decade. “With nothing but the deepest of respect for the Chair of the Rules Committee, I want to give you the facts about the Korea Free Trade Agreement. The reality is that after it passed, we increased exports to Korea from 14,000 to 34,000. By comparison, Korea imported into this country 800,000 to the U.S. before the trade agreement and now exports 1.3 million. So we increased our exports to Korea by 20,000, and they’ve increased exports to this country by 461,000. Toyota made more money last year in currency manipulation in this country than Ford Motor Company did in its worldwide operations. “The American people deserve a full and open debate on trade policy. Not procedural gimmicks and political games that shutout amendments and avoid the tough questions. Let’s defeat this rule and have a real debate on the issues that the working men and women of this country have sent us here to consider and that are so critical to the livelihood and the backbone of this American economy. American jobs are at stake.”
06.10.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – As the full U.S. House of Representatives prepares to consider legislation to grant President Obama Fast Track authority for trade agreements, Representatives Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and Donna Edwards (MD-4) are proposing an amendment to require congressional approval for China or any other country to join future trade agreements. Last week, President Obama indicated that China is “putting out feelers” about joining the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP). “It is important that Congress look at the details of any agreement that would allow China, the world’s second largest economy and a known currency manipulator, to enter a trade agreement,” said Dingell. “China has a long history of issues of concern to the U.S. – from currency cheating to human rights abuses, environmental offenses and intellectual property theft. Their actions are already hurting America’s economy and, more importantly, the working men and women we represent. Congress has a responsibility to ensure trade agreements protect our economy and our workers.” “Representative Dingell and I have serious concerns about an agreement that would welcome countries with a history of currency manipulation, intellectual property theft, and failure to abide by existing global trade norms without prior congressional approval and oversight,”Edwards said. “Without clear-cut language, prohibiting the entry of nations that do not abide by norms respecting human rights and worker rights this Administration or the next could expand TPP to include China and other countries – all without Congressional input. Maryland working families deserve Congressional oversight when our nation is debating an agreement as expansive as the proposed TPP – where the countries account for 40 percent of the world’s GDP.” U.S. negotiators have indicated that the final TPP agreement could include a docking provision that could allow countries to enter the agreement in future years. The amendment proposed by Dingell and Edwards would require a vote in Congress if any other nation decides to join the TPP.
06.08.2015	Lansing, MI – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today thanked Sue Synder, the First Lady of Michigan, for including her in today's “Let’s End Campus Sexual Assault” Summit, which was hosted by the First Lady and co-hosted by State Senators Tonya Schuitmaker (Lawton) and Rebekah Warren (Ann Arbor), and Representatives Laura Cox (Livonia) and Marilyn Lane (Fraser). The event brought together university officials, students, stakeholders and state and federal lawmakers for a discussion aimed at making Michigan a model in preventing sexual assaults on college campuses. “Campus sexual assault is not the status quo, it’s not okay and it’s not a trend we can accept in Michigan or across the country,” said Dingell. “We all have a responsibility to talk about tough issues, and I applaud First Lady Sue Snyder and the bipartisan group of lawmakers for bringing attention to this critical issue, which has been overlooked for too long. Today, one in five women are assaulted during their college years, and Michigan can, and should, lead the country in ending assault on college campuses. Today’s summit was a critical first step. By bringing together stakeholders from both sides of the aisle to listen and learn and discuss best practices, we can find ways to educate students, empower survivors and prevent sexual assault on our campuses and around the country.” Dr. Rebecca Campbell of Michigan State University concluded her presentation today with the words of a survivor, “Everything you say, everything you do is a chance to help me or hurt me. Make the choice to help me. Please help me.” Dingell continued, “As we leave today’s conference, I hope we will take those words to heart and focus on ways we can all help survivors who feel they have nowhere to turn. I will work with First Lady Snyder, all members of our communities, our universities and stakeholders on bipartisan policy solutions at the federal level that will provide victims the support they need and help change the picture of sexual assault on college campuses. Doing it right is also very important. Coordinating and collaborating were important takeaways from today as well.”
06.05.2015	Dearborn, MI – Today, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) was joined by local workers and labor leaders to speak out against Trade Promotion Authority, or Fast Track, a plan that would allow future trade deals, such as the Trans-Pacific Partnership, to be rushed through Congress with little transparency or debate, and without any ability to make changes. The legislation, which the House of Representatives could consider as early as next week, also does not include enforceable measures to prevent currency manipulation by foreign governments; an issue Dingell has called the mother of all trade barriers. “The auto industry is in my blood, but more importantly, it’s the backbone of Michigan’s economy,” said Dingell. “When countries, like Japan, artificially weaken their currency, it stacks the deck against American workers and makes it difficult for them to compete. I know our workers, they can out-compete anyone in the world, but they can’t out-compete the Bank of Japan or the Japanese Government. Fast tracking a trade deal without enforceable measures to prevent currency manipulation is a bad deal for our workers, our industries and our economy, and it’s not something I can support.” Currently, the Japanese yen is valued at about ¥124 to the dollar. This provides an up to $8,000 cost advantage for every vehicle Japan sells in the United States, which is then used to undercut the cost of parts or advertising. Economists have found that currency manipulation has already resulted in up to five million lost American jobs. According to the Economic Policy Institute, Michigan has lost 56,200 jobs due to the trade deficit with Japan, in large part as a result of currency manipulation. These job losses accounted for 1.34 percent of total state employment, the most of any state in the country. Local labor leaders joined Dingell to discuss the harmful effects Fast Track Authority would have on Michigan’s industries, jobs and the overall economy. “We’ve heard this story before,” said Ron Bieber, President of the Michigan AFL-CIO. “Fast Track legislation allowed the North American Free Trade Agreement to be rammed through Congress, and the result was lost jobs and lower wages for American workers. We know our representatives locally will stand up for us and our jobs, but Fast Track takes away any ability for them to do so. We need to fight for good paying middle class jobs, and it is critical we all stand together to stop Fast Track.” “Our communities are all too familiar with the impact of a bad trade deal,” said Jim Allen, President of United Steelworkers Local 1299. “When the steel plants shut down in River Rouge in 2009, many of the main street businesses shut down along with them and still have not bounced back. These policies have an impact on our communities and our families, and I thank Congresswoman Dingell and our representatives for fighting against a bad trade deal.”
06.01.2015	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today introduced an amendment to H.R. 1335, legislation to reauthorize the Magnuson-Stevens Act. The amendment would stop efforts to undermine the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) and preserve transparency and accountability in fisheries management decisions. Dingell spoke on the House floor today about the amendment. Excerpts from her speech are below. “NEPA has a simple promise – look before you leap. For decades NEPA has improved our environment and fostered fairness in our communities by ensuring that the government remains accountable to the people. The NEPA process requires federal agencies to review their proposed actions in light of their potential impacts on the environment and the places where we all live, work and play.” … “Sadly H.R. 1335, the bill we are considering today, would short-circuit public review and comment on fisheries management decisions, casting NEPA aside in favor of an inadequate, poorly defined process that would make regional fishery management councils the ultimate arbiters of whether or not their own decisions would impact coastal communities and ocean ecosystems.” … “While I know my colleagues have good intentions, the practical impact of this language means that local communities and businesses will not have the same opportunity to comment and have input on decisions that will impact their livelihood. I don’t think my colleagues on the other side of the aisle really want to limit public participation in this manner.” … Dingell’s amendment preserves current NEPA requirements, which require that plans to manage valuable resources be properly assessed before they are harvested. Dingell’s full remarks as prepared for delivery can be read below. The National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) is a critically important law, not only for protecting the environment but also for protecting the people’s right to participate in government decision-making. Sadly H.R. 1335, the bill we are considering today, would short-circuit public review and comment on fisheries management decisions, casting NEPA aside in favor of an inadequate, poorly defined process that would make regional fishery management councils the ultimate arbiters of whether or not their own decisions would impact coastal communities and ocean ecosystems. Forcing important NEPA analyses to be fast-tracked onto a Council’s timeline would eliminate crucial oversight steps that provide stakeholders an opportunity to impact the public policy. While I know my colleagues have good intentions, the practical impact of this language means that local communities and businesses will not have the same opportunity to comment and have input on decisions that will impact their livelihood. I don’t think my colleagues on the other side of the aisle really want to limit public participation in this manner. My amendment simply strikes the harmful language from the bill that undermines NEPA because limiting transparency and accountability is not the right thing to do. NEPA has a simple premise – look before you leap. For decades NEPA has improved our environment and fostered fairness in our communities by ensuring that government remains accountable to the people. The NEPA process requires federal agencies to review their proposed actions in light of their potential impacts on the human environment – the places where we all live, work and play. Most importantly, NEPA gives the public an opportunity to review and comment on actions proposed by the government, adding unique perspectives to the evaluation process that highly specialized, mission-driven agencies might otherwise ignore. In that way, NEPA is the ultimate check on big government: a uniquely American and quintessentially Democratic law written and executed to help people protect their rights and freedoms. Our founding fathers would certainly be proud. I hope my colleagues will agree that existing NEPA protections should be preserved, and ask that you vote in favor of my amendment.
05.29.2015	Mackinac Island – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today commented on the need for transportation solutions at the state and federal level following a panel discussion at the Mackinac Policy Conference. “Let's be clear that transportation funding is a responsibility of both federal and state governments, not just our state legislature. At the federal level we cannot keep kicking the can down the road either. This recent short-term extension of the Highway Trust Fund through July 31st should be the last. We need to figure out where there is common ground, develop clean plans that fund infrastructure in this country and in Michigan, pass them and implement them. “Voters elect us to solve problems. As I have said multiple times, we don't have Republican and Democratic potholes – we have crumbling infrastructure that needs to be fixed. Period. So let's work together to fix it, recognizing that not everyone may be happy at first but that there is a clear proposal dedicated to fixing our roads and bridges and keeping our country competitive. It is my hope that both the U.S. Congress and the state legislature will spend the next few weeks working to pass legislation that addresses these issues. I believe that Republicans and Democrats need to work together to accomplish this. I will work with anyone and everyone to find answers, seek solutions, pass a bill and meet with communities to talk about why this matters.”
05.28.2015	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today marked Older Americans Month by releasing a Long-term Care Guidebook, a comprehensive resource guide for those requiring or providing care in Southeast Michigan. The Guidebook includes a variety of resources to help seniors and their families related to long-term care, aging and caregiving, as well as contact information for local support services. “Long-term care is a concern that affects all Americans, and we know the challenges surrounding long-term care extend far beyond the patient and impact families and communities,” said Dingell. “Navigating the current patchwork of public programs, private insurance and various support services can be complicated, confusing and frustrating. This Guidebook brings all the pieces together in one place so families and seniors can find help and get the support they need.” To view the Guidebook, please click here. Also today, the White House announced that the 2015 Conference on Aging will be held in Washington, D.C. on July 13. In conjunction with this news, Dingell announced that her office will host a series of long-term care conversations this summer to coincide with the conference and share and collaborate on issues that will help shape the landscape for older Americans in the coming decades. Dingell will work with local organizations, advocates, and community leaders on the conversations aimed at providing support, resources, and guidance to seniors and family caregivers. Panel dates will be forthcoming. Dingell is committed to working in Congress to find innovative solutions that bring the long-term health care system into the 21st century and help seniors and those with disabilities get the care they need. The first bill she authored, the Medicare Hearing Aid Coverage Act of 2015, helps solve one piece of the puzzle by making Medicare cover hearing aids for beneficiaries. Earlier this year, Dingell also introduced a budget amendment to support enactment of a long-term care bill this Congress. For more information, please click here.
05.25.2015	Dearborn, MI – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today released the following statement honoring Memorial Day. “At a Memorial Day ceremony in Trenton on Saturday a World War II veteran asked if I would read a poem for the veterans. I did, and I am sharing with all as a reminder that we should take every opportunity to ensure the brave men and women who serve our country know how greatly they are appreciated. “Our servicemembers, veterans, and their families deserve our gratitude, love and support every day of the year. On Memorial Day, we honor their sacrifices, remember those we have lost, and resolve to work together for the ideals they bravely fought to defend.” He was getting old and paunchy, and his hair was falling fast, and he sat around the club room, telling stories of the past. Of a war that he had fought in, and the deeds that he had done, in his exploits with his comrades, they were heroes, everyone. And thou' sometimes to his neighbors, his tales became a joke, all his comrades listened, for they knew whereof he spoke. He held a job and raised a family, quietly going on his way, we'll hear his tales no longer, for he has passed away. He won't be mourned by many, just his children and his wife, for he lived an ordinary, very quiet sort of life. He was one, who in times of war and strife, goes off to serve his country, and offers up his life. He was just a common veteran and his ranks are growing thin, his presence should remind us, we may need his kind again. If we didn't do him honor, while he could hear the praise, then at least, let's give him homage at the end of his days. Perhaps just a simple headline, in the paper that might say, OUR COUNTRY IS IN MORNING, FOR A VETERAN DIED TODAY.
05.19.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senators Gary Peters and Debbie Stabenow and U.S. Representative Debbie Dingell today announced that Ecovia Renewables LLC has been awarded $100,000 from the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA)’s Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) program. The funding will go towards engineering microbial systems that convert the byproducts of industrial crops into valuable materials, such as plastics, in an eco-friendly manner. “Small businesses are the engines of economic growth and leaders in fostering innovation and entrepreneurship,” said Senator Peters, a member of the Senate Small Business and Entrepreneurship Committee. “Ecovia Renewables LLC is conducting important high-tech research on agricultural conservation and sustainability, and I congratulate them on receiving this grant. Thanks to this funding, Ecovia Renewables LLC can continue helping make Michigan a national leader in innovation.” “When we grow things and make things in Michigan, we create jobs in Michigan,” said Senator Stabenow. “This support is additional recognition of Michigan’s leadership in producing cutting-edge biobased fuels and chemicals. Investments like these help save consumers money, reduce our dependence on foreign oil, and create American jobs.” “Small businesses drive innovation and economic growth in Michigan, and we need to help them succeed,” said Congresswoman Dingell. “Ecovia Renewables LLC is leading the way in developing new technologies that will reduce our dependency on fossil fuels and improve conservation and sustainability. This grant will help them continue to grow, innovate and find solutions to some of the most pressing problems we face.” Ecovia Renewables LLC was launched in 2014 with a mission of developing and commercializing technologies that enable more efficient, cost-effective routes for producing bio-based chemicals and fuels, utilizing a microbial co-culture platform technology developed at the University of Michigan. The SBIR program at the USDA offers competitively awarded grants to qualified small businesses to support high quality, advanced concepts research related to important scientific problems and opportunities in agriculture that could lead to significant public benefits. The SBIR program at USDA is administered exclusively by the National Institute of Food and Agriculture, and awards small businesses based on the scientific and technical merit of investigator initiated ideas. The objectives of the SBIR Program are to: stimulate technological innovations in the private sector; strengthen the role of small businesses in meeting federal research and development needs; increase private sector commercialization of innovations derived from USDA-supported research and development efforts; and foster and encourage participation by women-owned and socially and economically disadvantaged small business firms in technological innovations.
05.19.2015	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today released the following statement after the House of Representatives approved a two-month extension of the Highway Trust Fund. “It is unacceptable that critical construction projects and good paying jobs across the country are hanging in the balance because Congress has failed to pass a long-term Highway bill. I voted for the two-month extension because allowing the Highway Trust Fund to expire at the end of May is not an option. “In Michigan, 38 percent of our roads are in poor condition and in desperate need of repair. Short-term patches do nothing to address the underlying problems we face. Passing a long-term reauthorization of the Highway Trust Fund is critical to moving construction projects forward, providing local municipalities the certainty they need to plan for the future, and creating good paying jobs for working families. The American people and Michiganders want simple solutions to fix our roads and bridges, not politics, and it’s time to work together to pass a long-term extension of the Highway Trust Fund.”
05.18.2015	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell today released the following statement celebrating the 50th anniversary of the launch of Head Start, which provides comprehensive preschool programs to millions of children and families in the United States. It is the first in a series of critical anniversaries being celebrated this year for programs that have made our communities stronger. “Nothing has a better return than our investments in the early emotional, intellectual and physical development of our young people. For the last 50 years, Head Start has helped prepare children to succeed in school and in life. The programs have ensured young people have access to good nutrition, early reading and other support critical for early childhood development. These investments lead to stronger families and better communities, and that is why we must continue to invest in programs that afford every child an equal chance at success. Our children are 25 percent of our population, but 100 percent of our future.” In 2014, Head Start served more than 32,700 children and families in Michigan. Head Start promotes school readiness of young children from low-income families through partnerships in their local community. In addition, Head Start programs provide children and their families health, nutrition, social, and other services vital to early childhood development. Head Start services are responsive to each child and family's ethnic, cultural, and linguistic heritage. Congresswoman Dingell is honoring the 50th anniversary of Head Start as a part of House Democrats’ “Building on Our Legacy, Embracing the Future” initiative, which highlights a number of major legislative achievements of 1965 and the ongoing fight to protect them. Fifty years after the enactment of groundbreaking legislation on these priorities, House Democrats continue to understand the importance of voting rights for all Americans, making college and early childhood education more accessible and affordable, defending Medicare and Medicaid, and protecting our environment.
05.15.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – The office of Congresswoman Debbie Dingell today confirmed the death this morning of Jeanne P. Dingell, the eldest daughter of former Congressman John D. Dingell and Helen Henebry Dingell. Jeanne passed away after a battle with lymphoma. The family released the following statement. “The family is saddened by the unexpected death this morning. Jeanne was a wife and mother, a daughter, sister and friend who was taken far too soon. She has been living in Poland and funeral arrangements are being determined. The family appreciates everyone’s friendship and support and asks for privacy during this difficult time.” Jeanne is survived by her husband, Romy Lagodka; two children Robin and Romy; as well as two brothers and a sister, John D. Dingell III, Christopher Dingell, and Jennifer Dingell; her mother and father.
05.14.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) is continuing the “Sending Smiles to Vets”program by inviting students to make artwork for local veterans before school adjourns for the summer. Dingell launched the year-round program in February after “Valentines for Veterans” received such an overwhelming response from veterans, schools and the community. Students are invited to make artwork for veterans celebrating summer and patriotic holidays. “Too many of the men and women at our local VA hospitals cannot be outside to enjoy this warmer weather,” said Dingell. “We need your help to bring cheer indoors and remind our veterans how much we love and appreciate them.” The artwork will be delivered by Congresswoman Dingell and friends several times throughout the summer. The first delivery will be at the John D. Dingell VA Medical Center on Friday, May 22. Those who wish to have their work included in the Memorial Day Weekend delivery should drop it off at Dingell’s Michigan offices between now and 4 p.m. on Thursday, May 21st, or call the Dearborn office at 313-278-2936 to arrange for pickup. Other delivery dates will be scheduled throughout the summer. Dearborn Office 19855 West Outer Drive Suite 103-E Dearborn, MI 48124 Ypsilanti Office 301 West Michigan Avenue Suite 400 Ypsilanti, MI 48197 The first “Sending Smiles to Vets” delivery occurred around the St. Patrick’s Day Holiday. The program will celebrate seasons and holidays throughout the year.
05.14.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Last night, the House Committee on Rules approved Congresswoman Debbie Dingell’s proposed amendment to H.R. 1735, the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), for consideration by the full House of Representatives. Dingell’s amendment, which expresses the sense of Congress that the President should exercise all available authorities to evacuate United States citizens and nationals from Yemen as soon as possible, will be included in a package of en bloc amendments the House will consider this week. Dingell’s district is home to one of the largest populations of Yemenis and Yemeni-Americans in the United States. Approximately nine percent of the Arab American community in the Detroit and Dearborn area has roots in Yemen. “Our office has been deluged with calls from Yemeni-Americans, most of them my constituents, who are desperate to escape or have family trapped in Yemen,” said Dingell. “They are looking for a lifeline and they do not know how to get help. They need to know the government is on their side and has not forgotten them. That is why this amendment expressing the sense of Congress is so important.” Since the closure of the United States Embassy in Yemen in February 2015, over 550 Yemeni-Americans have registered as being unable to leave the country amid a growing civil war. This week, NPR published the story of Rhonia Aladashi, a sixteen-year-old girl from Dearborn, Michigan who traveled to Yemen to visit her father when hostilities began. Her family tried to escape to Saudi Arabia, but they were denied entry because they were without a male escort. They then had to re-enter the war zone in Yemen and make the perilous journey south to the port of Aden, where they were able to find a private touring boat that was making the 130 mile trip to Djibouti. They had to travel at night to avoid gunfire from rebels, and there was little food and water on board. “My constituents are looking for a safe route to come home,” said Dingell. “We should not advocate for any action that would put American troops or additional personnel in harm’s way. We are simply asking the administration to make every possible effort to safely evacuate U.S. citizens. China, Ethiopia, India and Russia have all taken the necessary steps to evacuate their citizens. If possible, so should the United States.” Congresswoman Dingell has been in close contact with State Department officials since the crisis in Yemen began. Last month, she wrote a letter to Secretary of State John Kerry urging the State Department to take increased steps to evacuate American citizens, protect those stranded in Yemen, and improve communication with families. To read the letter, please click here. The State Department has also established a website to help register American citizens in Yemen and provide information and updates.
05.06.2015	DEARBORN, MI – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today applauded the National Endowment for the Arts (NEA) for awarding three grants totaling $38,000 to community art projects in Dearborn and Ann Arbor. “An investment in the arts is an investment in the cultural and economic vitality of our communities,” said Dingell. “I am so pleased that the 12th District is receiving this funding to celebrate our diverse ethnic heritage, support our growing arts community, and help extend the reach of the arts to every corner of our region.” The grants are awarded through the NEA’s Art Works and State and Regional Partnership grant categories. A list of the organizations receiving funding is below. City of Dearborn – $10,000 The award will support the development of an artist-in-residence unit in the City Hall Artspace Lofts and related community engagement and outreach. Facilitated by Artspace Projects, Inc., the project will include all design stages for the renovation and adaptive reuse of a unit in the concourse of the existing Dearborn City Hall as part of a larger development of cultural facilities and space for artists and arts organizations, including the Arab American National Museum. The unit will also provide space for other underserved artistic communities and help anchor an economically challenged neighborhood of Dearborn. Community Action Network, Ann Arbor – $10,000 Working in partnership with the Bryant Community Center and the Ann Arbor Public Art Commission, artist and designer Nick Tobier will create work that will function as wayfinding markers placed near the trails in the Arbor Oaks Park. Kerrytown Concert House, Inc., Ann Arbor – $18,000 The award will support the World At the Edge concert series, which will include concerts at the Kerrytown Concert House featuring artists who will perform jazz-based works influenced by their multicultural or international ethnic heritage. Repeat performances are planned to take place at partner organizations’ venues, including the Arab American National Museum in Dearborn.
05.01.2015	Washington, DC – As negotiations on the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade agreement move forward, the five freshmen members of the Michigan Congressional Delegation today sent a bipartisan letter to Secretary of the Treasury Jack Lew and U.S. Trade Representative Michael Froman, urging them to include enforceable measures to prevent currency manipulation, the biggest trade barrier of the 21stCentury. “Failing to address currency manipulation could lessen or eliminate any benefits of a free trade agreement and leave American workers and American businesses at a continuing competitive disadvantage,” wrote Representatives Debbie Dingell (MI-12), Dave Trott (MI-11), John Moolenaar (MI-04), Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) and Mike Bishop (MI-08). Economists have found that currency manipulation has already resulted in up to five million lost American jobs. Michigan has been particularly hard hit. According to the Economic Policy Institute, Michigan has lost 56,200 jobs due to the trade deficit with Japan, in large part as a result of currency manipulation. These job losses accounted for 1.34 percent of total state employment, the most of any state in the country. “The working families in our communities expect us to come together to tackle the big issues that will strengthen job creation,” the representatives continued. “For that reason, we should respect the commitments all countries have already made on the matter as a part of the International Monetary Fund and World Trade Organization. Therefore, each country should be held accountable. As you continue to negotiate the Trans-Pacific Partnership, we encourage you to pursue enforceable currency disciplines to prevent currency manipulation by our trading partners.” The letter can be read in full below. The Honorable Jacob Lew Secretary of the Treasury 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, DC 20220 The Honorable Michael Froman U.S. Trade Representative 600 17th Street NW Washington, DC 20508 Dear Secretary Lew and Ambassador Froman: We share your commitment to supporting American workers and ensuring that American businesses are able to thrive in a global market. To do so, we believe it is necessary to address currency manipulation by foreign governments, which is a serious trade problem of the 21st century. Failing to address currency manipulation could lessen or eliminate any benefits of a free trade agreement and leave American workers and American businesses at a continuing competitive disadvantage. Economists have found that currency manipulation has already resulted in up to five million lost American jobs. The working families in our communities expect us to come together to tackle the big issues that will strengthen job creation. For that reason, we should respect the commitments all countries have already made on the matter as a part of IMF and WTO. Therefore, each country should be held accountable. As you continue to negotiate the Trans-Pacific Partnership, we encourage you to pursue enforceable currency disciplines to prevent currency manipulation by our trading partners. We look forward to working with you on this going forward. Sincerely,
04.30.2015	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement on House passage of H.R. 2029, the FY2016 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations bill, which fails to fully fund veterans’ services. “Taking care of the men and women who served our country in the armed forces is a responsibility we all share. Today, the U.S. House considered a bill that does not meet that mandate for our veterans. “I opposed H.R. 2029 because it does not provide sufficient funding for veterans’ medical care and critical VA construction. The National VFW Commander called the bill unconscionable, saying, 'The VA cannot fulfill its mission without proper funding, but the House for whatever reason now wants to ration care, eliminate infrastructure projects, and stop improving upon the programs and services that the VA was created to provide.' For me this is unacceptable because our veterans deserve better. “While we have a responsibility as a nation to balance our budget and reduce our deficit, we need to end sequestration and eliminate the arbitrary budget caps that are forcing across-the-board cuts to defense and non-defense programs. We need to eliminate waste and fraud without endangering core services our government has a moral obligation to provide. This includes providing sufficient funding for the VA to ensure our veterans receive the support they have earned. This is a non-negotiable priority.” A number of major Veterans Service Organizations are opposed to this legislation: VFW National Commander John W. Stroud: “This bill is bad for veterans and any vote for it is unconscionable.” DAV: “Over objections, the bill would cut VA's budget request next year by over $1.4 billion, including $600 million in direct medical care for veterans. This reduction is unconscionable, given VA's ongoing efforts to recover from last year's explosive access-to-care crisis and its aftermath. Also, VA is reaching a crisis point in terms of maintaining and upgrading current VA health care facilities, but the House would cut the Administration's request for these funds for construction and renovations by $582 million. Such reductions are outrageous and must be reversed, but today the House seems intent on going forward with these cuts.” American Legion’s National Commander Michael Helm: “Regardless of political gamesmanship being played between Congress and the White House, The American Legion expects VA to be fully funded. We agree with Secretary McDonald that cutting his department's budget by more than a billion dollars is unacceptable…Why would Congress try to undercut VA's efforts to improve its services to our veterans by taking away funding that is so obviously needed? The appropriations committees should be finding ways to add money to VA's budget, which is exempt from sequestration.” The Independent Budget for Veterans (AMVETS, DAV, PVA, and VFW) letter to Congress: “This is a particularly important moment in VA history, given the events of the past year. Suffocating the system now with a dearth of funding (well over $1 billion less than requested by the Administration), and restricting or rescinding the use of available funds – even those to be appropriated in this bill – while demanding reforms, only proves to make VA’s intended and ongoing efforts more challenging.”
04.29.2015	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement today after Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s address before a joint session of Congress. “The relationship between the United States and Japan is important to both our countries. Today’s address to a joint session reflects that. However, the U.S. trade deficit with Japan, which is fueled by currency manipulation, the mother of all trade barriers, is significant and cannot be ignored. Its impact is felt by the working men and women of my district every day. The United States exports one vehicle to Japan for every 99 vehicles imported, and if this trade imbalance is not addressed, that number will continue to grow. I look forward to a continued dialogue with Japan as we work to craft a trade policy that protects our workers and levels the playing field. I cannot support anything less.”
04.28.2015	After the U.S. Supreme Court heard oral arguments today in the landmark marriage equality case, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and the Congressional LGBT Equality Caucus hosted a reception honoring Michigan couple April DeBoer and Jayne Rowse. April and Jayne are plaintiffs in DeBoer vs. Snyder, part of the consolidated marriage case heard before the Supreme Court. “April and Jayne are devoted partners and loving, caring parents who want to be able to protect their children and have their love for each other recognized by the law.” said Dingell. “It was an honor to introduce these amazing women to my colleagues today; they reminded us that love can’t wait, and I am confident that because of April and Jayne’s courage and willingness to stand up for what is right, all families are closer to receiving the equal justice they deserve.” Attached, please find photos of April and Jayne with Congresswoman Dingell, House Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer (MD-5), and Congressman Sander Levin (MI-9).
04.23.2015	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) is urging the State Department to take increased steps to protect American citizens stranded in Yemen. In a letter today to Secretary of State John Kerry, Dingell urged the State Department to prioritize the evacuation of American citizens living in Yemen and to improve communication with families about any future evacuation efforts. Dingell has also been in constant communication with State Department officials. “The ongoing situation in Yemen is dire and further action must be taken by the U.S. Department of State to ensure the safety of American citizens living in the country,” Dingell wrote. “As you are aware, Michigan’s Twelfth Congressional District has a significant Yemeni-American population and they are concerned for the well-being of their loved ones, many of whom are trapped in the country during ongoing hostilities. “We have an obligation to make every possible effort to safely evacuate U.S. citizens from conflict zones…It is critical that you work with our allies in the region to explore alternative options for the safe evacuation of U.S. citizens in Yemen.” In Dingell’s conversations with senior officials at the State Department, it became clear that better communication was necessary to ensure the community is aware of all resources available to them. The State Department has established a website where families can find important information and updates. Families are also encouraged to visit the Facebook and Twitter pages for the U.S. Embassy in Yemen. Community groups are urged to share this information with all interested parties. Michigan is home to one of the largest populations of Arab Americans in the country, and Dearborn, Michigan has a significant number of Yemeni-Americans. Dingell’s letter to Secretary Kerry can be read in full below. The Honorable John Kerry Secretary U.S. Department of State 2201 C St. NW Washington, DC 20520 Dear Secretary Kerry: The ongoing situation in Yemen is dire and further action must be taken by the U.S. Department of State to ensure the safety of American citizens living in the country. As you are aware, Michigan’s Twelfth Congressional District has a significant Yemeni-American population and they are concerned for the well-being of their loved ones, many of whom are trapped in the country during ongoing hostilities. It is critical to prioritize the evacuation of American citizens from Yemen as the State Department continues to evaluate U.S. policy in the region. We are hearing daily from Yemeni-Americans, most of them constituents. Some of them are stuck in Yemen themselves and others have family living in Yemen with no ability to get help. These U.S. citizens in Yemen have nowhere to turn, and we have a responsibility to protect them. It is heartbreaking to hear these stories of loved ones stranded in a war zone. We have an obligation to make every possible effort to safely evacuate U.S. citizens from conflict zones. The safety of U.S. personnel in the region is our shared priority, and I am not advocating for any action that would put American troops or personnel in harm’s way. It is also a fact that evacuations become more difficult when our embassy and other facilities in the country are closed. We need to find a solution that provides for the evacuation of U.S. citizens from Yemen without putting our troops at risk. It is critical that we work with our allies in the region to explore alternative options for the safe evacuation of U.S. citizens in Yemen. We are also hearing that the State Department is not receiving enough information about my constituents who are stuck in Yemen, and that Americans in Yemen are not receiving accurate information about ongoing efforts. Working with Members of Congress and local community groups to improve communications regarding any future evacuation plans will help alleviate this concern. Protecting Americans living abroad is one of the most important missions of the State Department. I urge you to make the evacuation of U.S. citizens stranded in Yemen a top priority. Please let me know what I can do to be of assistance in this matter, and I look forward to working with you. Sincerely, Debbie Dingell Member of Congress
04.22.2015	Washington, DC – In light of recently introduced trade promotion legislation, or Fast Track, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and Congressman Dan Kildee (MI-05) held a briefing today on the critical issue of currency manipulation. A panel of experts representing economists, industry and labor joined the members to discuss the devastating impact currency manipulation has had on American workers and industries, and the importance of addressing it in any free trade agreement. “If we don’t take action to stop currency manipulation, any other benefits of a free trade deal can be wiped out in seconds,” said Congresswoman Dingell. “Currency manipulation is the mother of all trade barriers. It has cost the United States up to five million jobs, and not addressing it will only lead to lower wages and more lost jobs for American workers. It is clear that strong, enforceable currency provisions need to be included in any free trade agreement if we are to protect American jobs and level the playing field for our workers.” “Allowing new trade deals to move forward without addressing currency manipulation certainly isn’t free trade and isn’t something I can support,”Congressman Kildee said. “When American workers can compete on a level playing field, I know they can build the best products in the world and compete with anyone. But failing to address currency manipulation stacks the deck against American manufacturers. It forces our workers to continue competing against countries, like Japan, that are deliberately devaluing their currency to favor their exports. Fast tracking a new trade deal without strong, enforceable currency provisions is a bad deal for our workers, our businesses and our economy.” The briefing was held in advance of Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s April 28thmeeting with President Obama to discuss trade and other issues. Currency manipulation by Japan has put American automakers at a competitive disadvantage of up to $8,000 per vehicle produced. Speakers at today’s briefing included Governor Matt Blunt, President of the American Automotive Policy Council (AAPC); C. Fred Bergsten, Senior Fellow and Director Emeritus at the Peterson Institute for International Economics; and Josh Nassar, Legislative Director at the United Auto Workers (UAW). “Currency manipulation is the biggest barrier for 21st century trade,” said Governor Blunt. “It is estimated that currency manipulation has cost upwards of five million American jobs. Currency manipulation has had and continues to have a profound negative impact on the American auto industry and American manufacturing. AAPC and its member companies have supported every existing free trade agreement and past versions of trade promotion authority, and we look forward to working with Congress to ensure trade promotion authority and TPP actually opens markets and leads to free trade.” “The American auto industry is back and creating tens of thousands of new jobs a year,” said UAW President Dennis Williams. “UAW is proud of the fact the automotive industry is the largest manufactured goods export sector in the United States. We now must build on this growth and fight against unfair trade practices that kill jobs and threaten our future. Currency manipulation hurts manufacturing and our ability to sell and export cars because it makes our cars artificially expensive. The TPP Agreement must include enforceable rules requiring each TPP Party to avoid manipulating exchange rates to gain an unfair competitive advantage in international trade. This is one more reason why we in the UAW stand firmly against Fast Track.”
04.18.2015	Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today released the following statement on the passing of developer and philanthropist Alfred Taubman. “Al Taubman was a great businessman and a true philanthropist, whose generosity touched lives in Michigan and around the world. He cared deeply about our state, and his contributions made our communities stronger and more vibrant, our schools and universities more innovative and our research institutes more prepared to find cures for the most devastating diseases we face. Al Taubman changed Michigan for the better, and while he will be greatly missed, his vision and generosity will live on in the many lives he touched. John and I send our sincerest thoughts and prayers to the Taubman family.”
04.17.2015	Dearborn, MI – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today released the following statement on the passing of former Senator Robert P. Griffin. “Senator Griffin was my first boss and he taught me so much. He taught me the importance of integrity in the political process, keeping your word, and working with members on both sides of the aisle. He always fought for Michigan because he loved Michigan, and after years in office he spent his time trying to instill in young people the value and the importance of public service. His passing makes me very sad and reflective, and my thoughts and prayers go out to his family and friends during this difficult time.”
04.16.2015	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement today after Senator Orrin Hatch (UT), Senator Ron Wyden (OR) and Congressman Paul Ryan (WI) introduced a bill to fast-track trade legislation through Congress without transparency or debate, and without enforceable measures to protect against currency manipulation. “The trade bill introduced today is simply not something I can or will support as it squarely puts the working men and women I represent at a significant disadvantage and does not give them the protections they deserve. Currency manipulation is the mother of all trade barriers and this agreement will just mean lost jobs and lost wages for American workers. The people of Michigan deserve better, and Congress should give a thumbs down to any trade deal that gives a leg up to our foreign competitors and fails to level the playing field for the American worker.”
04.14.2015	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement today, Equal Pay Day, calling for action on the Paycheck Fairness Act. Dingell is an original cosponsor of the legislation to ensure women across the country earn equal pay for equal work. “Today is a day to highlight the progress we have made as women, but mark how far we still have to go. Women deserve equal pay for equal work. When I interviewed for my first job at General Motors, I was asked why a woman would want to work there. Now a friend and colleague is a female CEO. I’m proud of the progress we’ve made. Yet, in today's world too many women are not paid the equivalent of their male peers. “The Paycheck Fairness Act closes loopholes that still exist to ensure all Americans are earning equal pay for equal work. This is not just a women’s issue, it’s a family issue. When women bring home less money each day, it means they have less for the everyday needs of their families – groceries, rent, child care and doctors’ visits. When women succeed, America succeeds, and this Equal Pay Day, we are calling on our colleagues to pass the Paycheck Fairness Act to help close the pay gap once and for all. Background Equal Pay Day symbolizes when, more than three months into the year, women’s wages finally catch up to what men were paid in the previous year. Women in Michigan still only earn 77 cents for every dollar earned by their male counterparts. Nationwide, women working full time, year round earn on average 78 cents for every dollar earned by men. Women won’t see pay equity with men until 2058 based on the rate that the pay gap has been closing since 1960.
04.09.2015	Ann Arbor, MI – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today hosted a roundtable discussion with students and administrators from area colleges and universities on student loans and college affordability. Dingell heard from undergraduates and graduates about the challenges they face financing their educations, and discussed efforts at the federal level to ease the student loan burden and make college more affordable. “A college education is one of the most valuable investments families can make, but today, millions of graduates are entering the workforce burdened with tens of thousands of dollars of debt,” said Dingell. “Graduates across the country are putting their futures on hold – delaying milestones like buying a home and starting a business – as they struggle to pay off their student loans.” Skyrocketing tuitions have left nearly 40 million Americans working to repay $1.3 trillion in student loans, including 1.5 million Michigan residents who owe more than $39 billion. Yet current law prevents hardworking, responsible borrowers from refinancing their student loans to today’s low rates, such as those available for home and auto loans. As a result, graduates with outstanding student debt are often stuck with interest rates at 7% or higher. Dingell is a cosponsor of the Bank on Students Emergency Loan Refinancing Act, which would save students and families thousands of dollars by allowing federal and private student loan borrowers to refinance their loans to the same low rates offered to new borrowers in the 2013-2014 school year. More than 960,000 borrowers in Michigan would benefit from being able to refinance their student loans. “You can refinance your home loan, your car loan and your small business loan. But you can’t refinance your federal student loan,” said Dingell. “That’s just plain wrong. Our bill fixes that problem – saving families thousands of dollars on their loans.” “The University of Michigan is pleased that Congress is reviewing measures aimed at assisting federal and private student-loan borrowers and it is very helpful that Congresswoman Dingell is bringing this important conversation to our campus,” said Margaret Rodriguez, senior associate director for the UM Office of Financial Aid. “The University of Michigan works hard to ensure higher education is accessible and affordable to students from all economic backgrounds." “We were pleased to join Congresswoman Dingell in discussing opportunities to reduce the heavy burden of loan repayment on students and families,” said Linda Blakey, vice president of student and academic services at Washtenaw Community College. “Even at WCC, where tuition is historically affordable, many students still borrow and would benefit from a lower interest rate during repayment. We need to ensure that we are doing everything we can to relieve some of the financial burden caused by higher interest rates on federal and private loans.” Dingell was also joined at the roundtable by Curt Gielow, President of Concordia University Ann Arbor; Rebecca DeVooght, State Relations Director at the University of Michigan; Jason Morgan, Director of Government Relations at Washtenaw Community College; Kelly Schneider, Senior Financial Aid Advisor at Eastern Michigan University; Kevin Stange, Assistant Professor at the University of Michigan Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy; and local students. “It was great to see the Congresswoman bring together leaders from different universities – public and private – community colleges and four-year institutions, graduate students and undergraduate students, for a conversation on college affordability,” said Bobby Dishell, student body president at the University of Michigan. “It was great to learn from financial aid officers and university officials, and also from my fellow students about the issue of college affordability and to have a conversation not just on the tuition cost but the social cost of attending an institution. It was good to see the Congresswoman so receptive to this and I think there’s a lot of great work we can do together when we involve students in the conversation and work to solve the issue of college affordability.” “We would all benefit from a simpler process for student loans,” said Davon Shackleford, a student at Washtenaw Community College. “Student debt impacts financial decisions I have to make every day. Money is tight for students, and having a large amount of debt when you graduate makes things even more difficult. Today’s discussion with Congresswoman Dingell was very interesting and I enjoyed learning more about her proposal to help students like me.” Total student loan debt – which nearly quadrupled between 2003 and 2013 – has now eclipsed credit card debt as the second largest form of consumer debt, behind mortgages. The average student owes nearly $30,000. "The increasing debt load that students must take on is becoming out of control and is consuming the lives of the youth, oftentimes deterring them from more education," said Eric Penrose, student at Eastern Michigan University. "It was a pleasure to be invited to this discussion, and I appreciate Congresswoman Dingell for coming out and listening to our needs as students and to the universities' financial offices that strive to find a better means to assist students with funding their education. Being from a low income bracket, I appreciate any effort in reducing the burden on students to assure that everyone is able to finance their education." Congresswoman Dingell is also a cosponsor of the American Opportunity Tax Credit Act of 2015, which helps ease the cost of attending college by providing a tax credit for qualifying secondary education expenses, such as books and computers. The bill also increases the current tax credit from $2,500 to $3,000 per year.
04.08.2015	Dearborn, MI – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today hosted a roundtable discussion with students and administrators from University of Michigan-Dearborn and Henry Ford College on student loans and college affordability. Dingell heard from undergraduate and graduate students about the challenges they face financing their educations, and discussed efforts at the federal level to ease the student loan burden and make college more affordable. “A college degree is a stepping stone to a brighter future for many Americans, but today, millions of graduates are entering the workforce burdened with tens of thousands of dollars of debt,” said Dingell. “College graduates across the country are putting their futures on hold as they struggle to pay off their student loans.” Skyrocketing tuitions have left nearly 40 million Americans working to repay $1.3 trillion in student loans, including 1.5 million Michigan residents who owe more than $39 billion. Yet current law prevents hardworking, responsible borrowers from refinancing their student loans to today’s low rates, such as those available for home and auto loans. As a result, graduates with outstanding student debt are often stuck with interest rates at 7% or higher. Dingell is a cosponsor of the Bank on Students Emergency Loan Refinancing Act, which would save students and families thousands of dollars by allowing federal and private student loan borrowers to refinance their loans to the same low rates offered to new borrowers in the 2013-2014 school year. More than 960,000 borrowers in Michigan would benefit from being able to refinance their student loans. “You can refinance your home loan, your car loan and your small business loan. But you can’t refinance your federal student loan,” said Dingell. “That’s just plain wrong. Our bill fixes that problem – saving families thousands of dollars on their loans.” Dingell was joined at the roundtable by Angela Acosta, Assistant Director of Financial Aid at UM-Dearborn; Kevin Culler, Director of Financial Aid at Henry Ford College; Mike Latvis, Government Relations Manager at UM-Dearborn; Ray Metz, Vice Chancellor for Enrollment and Student Life (interim) at UM-Dearborn; and local students. "Today's visit to University of Michigan-Dearborn by Congresswoman Dingell to discuss college affordability provided our students with the opportunity to explain, first hand, the challenges they face while working towards completing their education. It was a great opportunity for the students to hear all of the work that she is doing to relieve some of the debt they face," said Metz. "University of Michigan-Dearborn is committed to providing a high-quality education that is accessible and affordable to all qualified candidates. We recognize that the responsibility of maintaining this commitment lies with the federal and state governments as well as each educational institution. If passed, the restructuring and refinancing of student loans will go a long way in easing some of the burden our students shoulder after graduation." “The roundtable discussion allowed myself and fellow students to voice our concerns regarding the current affordability of higher education,” said Phillip Voydanoff, an undergraduate student at UM-Dearborn. “From discussions revolving around Federal Pell Grants to current loan interest rates, it was a great opportunity to have a direct conversation with the Congresswoman. I was delighted to see her proposed bill would assist students with refinancing student loans taken out any number of years ago.” “After college, I delayed plans to go back to graduate school for years while I saved up enough money,” said Josh Slaviero, a graduate student at UM-Dearborn. “I didn’t want to take on crushing debt, but as a result, I had to put my life on hold and wait to start my career and buy a home of my own. Congresswoman Dingell’s proposals to help students refinance their loans and make college more affordable could make a difference for people who are waiting to start their lives.” Total student loan debt – which nearly quadrupled between 2003 and 2013 – has now eclipsed credit card debt as the second largest form of consumer debt, behind mortgages. The average student owes nearly $30,000. Congresswoman Dingell is also a cosponsor of the American Opportunity Tax Credit Act of 2015, which helps ease the cost of attending college by making permanent a tax credit for qualifying secondary education expenses, such as books and computers. The bill also increases the current tax credit from $2,500 to $3,000 per year.
04.07.2015	Today, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) toured the 12th District to discuss health care priorities, especially those impacting seniors. Dingell visited the Copeland Center in Wyandotte to talk with seniors about their concerns and discuss her new bill, the Medicare Hearing Aid Coverage Act of 2015. Hearing loss is the most prevalent condition in the United States, affecting more than nine million seniors, but half of all older Americans who need a hearing aid are unable to afford or obtain one. “Untreated hearing loss has a dramatic impact on seniors’ mental health, relationships and quality of life,” said Dingell. “No one should feel isolated, confused or shutout from the world around them because they cannot afford the treatment they need. This legislation would allow Medicare to provide coverage for hearing aids, helping to eliminate this problem that so many seniors face and significantly improving the quality of life for millions of Americans.” According to the National Council on Aging, if left untreated, hearing loss has serious emotional and social consequences for older Americans. Those with untreated hearing loss are more likely to report depression, anxiety, paranoia and are less likely to participate in organized social activities compared to those who wear hearing aids. Additionally, some studies have demonstrated a higher risk of dementia in people with hearing loss. A photo of today’s visit at the Copeland Center is attached. Today, Dingell also visited Henry Ford Wyandotte Hospital, which was recently recognized as one of the top 100 hospitals in the nation. She met with physicians and staff to learn about issues facing the hospital and discussed a bipartisan compromise, which recently passed the House of Representatives, to repeal and replace the flawed Medicare physician payment formula, known as the Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR). “This bipartisan compromise will finally provide doctors and health care providers certainty regarding Medicare physician payments. But most importantly, it will benefit the patients and seniors who depend on them to receive the care they need,” said Dingell. “There are so many problems that confront us which require us to set our differences aside and work together, and I’m hopeful this compromise will set a trend of bipartisanship in Congress.” The compromise, the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015, also increases funding for community health centers by $7.2 billion for two years and includes an extension of the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP), which provides quality, affordable care for more than 89,000 low-income children in Michigan. The bill now awaits passage by the Senate. For more information on the bipartisan compromise, please click here.
04.07.2015	Washington, DC – As House Leadership finalized the Whip team for the 114th Congress, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) was appointed to serve as a Senior Whip by Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer (MD-05). “I am pleased to announce that Congresswoman Dingell will serve as a Senior Whip in the 114th Congress,” said Whip Hoyer. “Congresswoman Dingell is a proven consensus builder with a long record of bringing people from diverse backgrounds together to solve problems, and I know she will be a valuable asset to the Whip team.” The Senior Whip team is composed of leaders from across the Democratic Caucus. They meet once a week, when Congress is in session, to have a forward-looking, strategic discussion on the key issues facing our nation. Senior Whips will also be responsible for talking to their fellow Democratic members about upcoming legislation that will be considered in the House. “It is an honor to be asked by Democratic Whip Hoyer to join the Whip team and to work with my colleagues on strategies that move our country forward,” said Dingell. “Now more than ever, we must be united in our efforts to open the window of opportunity for all Americans and ensure that hardworking families, the backbone of our country, can buy a home, send their kids to college and enjoy a secure and dignified retirement.”
04.01.2015	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) joined Transportation Security Administration (TSA) Officers at the Detroit Metropolitan Wayne County Airport today to call for new security measures to protect passengers and employees in airport security screening areas. The rally comes in the aftermath of a recent attack at New Orleans Airport and the tragic 2013 shooting at Los Angeles International Airport. “I travel weekly through the airport and talk to TSA officers each time to understand how they are doing and see if they have concerns or issues,” said Dingell. “In recent weeks, numerous officers have raised concerns about their own personal safety and that of passengers traveling. These men and women have dangerous, high-pressure jobs and they should not have to come to work every day fearing for their lives while they are protecting ours. “I want to thank them for working to keep us safe, because too often we forget to show our appreciation. It is clear additional measures are needed to protect screening areas, passengers and the brave individuals who are on the front lines of protecting our skies and preventing another 9/11. It should not take another tragedy to spur us to action. I will work with other members across the aisle to see how we support these workers and their needs.” The TSA officers, members of the American Federation of Government Employees (AFGE), are calling for a new unit of armed law enforcement officers within TSA specifically trained and armed to respond to such attacks, and for other safety measures at screening checkpoints. Dingell was joined today by AFGE National President J. David Cox, Sr., AFGE 7th District National Vice President Dorothy James, AFGE TSA Council 100 President Hydrick Thomas, AFGE TSA Council 100 Executive Vice President Alan Jackimowicz, AFGE Local 778 President Vaughn Glenn, Michigan AFL-CIO President Karla Swift, and additional TSA officers.
03.27.2015	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) introduced legislation yesterday that would allow Medicare to provide coverage for hearing aids. HR 1653, the Medicare Hearing Aid Coverage Act of 2015, would address a problem too many seniors face. Today, the average price of a pair of hearing aids ranges between $4,400 and $4,500, a price tag many cannot afford. “I have learned in recent months how many seniors are burdened by this problem,” said Dingell. “When I learned of this, the ENT doctor who brought it to my attention told me more than half the patients she saw who needed a hearing aid were unable to afford or obtain one. No one should feel isolated, confused or shutout from the world around them because they cannot afford the treatment they need. This bill is just one piece of the puzzle to bring our fragmented and unnavigable health care system into the 21st century to better serve seniors and families.” “Hearing Loss Association of America is thrilled that Representative Debbie Dingell has introduced a bill that would provide Medicare coverage for hearing aids” said Anna Gilmore Hall, executive director of Hearing Loss Association of America. “Seniors with hearing loss who depend on Medicare have been denied access to hearing aids for too long. We applaud Representative Dingell for introducing this critically important bill.” Hearing loss is one of the most prevalent chronic conditions in the United States, affecting nearly 20 million Americans over the age of 45. The problem will continue to grow as baby boomers age, and left untreated, it has serious emotional and social consequences for older adults. A study by the National Council on Aging found that those with untreated hearing loss were more likely to report depression, anxiety, paranoia and were less likely to participate in organized social activities, compared to those who wear hearing aids. Additionally, some studies have demonstrated a higher risk of dementia in people with hearing loss. Dingell’s bill would improve access to hearing aids and related examinations by removing part of the Social Security Act that prevents Medicare from covering hearing aids. The bill also directs the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to conduct a study on insurance programs that provide services to help with hearing loss. Addressing long-term care for the aging population is one of Congresswoman Dingell’s top priorities. Currently we have a system that is broken, not integrated, and difficult to navigate. This week, she offered a budget amendment to establish a real long-term care system in the United States to ensure seniors and those with disabilities can get the care they need. For more information, please click here.
03.26.2015	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today applauded passage of H.R. 2, the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015. This legislation represents a bipartisan compromise which permanently repeals the Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR) formula for Medicare physician payments and extends the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP), which provides quality, affordable care for more than 89,000 low-income children in Michigan. “This is an example of how Washington should work,” said Dingell. “Every year, doctors and hospitals face a crisis in determining what physicians are going to be paid by Medicare, and as a result patients are not sure they’ll be able to see their doctors or get necessary care. This compromise makes progress toward the goal of ensuring quality, affordable health care for all Americans by ending the decade-long cycle of annual patches to a broken system and restoring the certainty doctors, health care providers and seniors need and depend on. “The second part of this compromise is critical for children in this country. It extends CHIP for two years, and while I would have preferred a four-year extension, this bill ensures that every child will be able to go to the doctor and have necessary check-ups, immunizations and medical treatment when they need it. This bill also expands funding for Community Health Centers by $7.2 billion for two years, which is critical for the state of Michigan. These centers provide vital services to those who need it most, and if Congress does not act, 4.3 million women and 2.5 million children will lose access to this critical care. “This is what I came to Congress to do – work with Republicans and Democrats to find solutions. Compromise is not a dirty word, and I hope the Senate passes this bipartisan compromise without delay.”
03.25.2015	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12), a member of the House Budget Committee, released the following statement after voting against Republican’s Fiscal Year 2016 Budget. “Now more than ever, we need a budget that embraces the hardworking families in this country – that ensures everyone who puts in an honest day’s work can afford to buy a home, send their kids to college and enjoy a safe and secure retirement. But this budget sets us on the wrong path. It doubles down on policies that put working families further behind. It ends Medicare as we know it, forcing seniors – including those who simply cannot work anymore – to pay more and get less health coverage. It would eliminate the Affordable Care Act and leave 341,000 Michigan residents without health insurance. It keeps arbitrary spending cuts that hurt young and old alike, by decimating Head Start and denying seniors access to meals. And it makes college less affordable by cutting Pell grants for the 269,000 Michigan students who depend on them. “This is the wrong direction for our country and it’s wrong for Southeast Michigan. I’m disappointed that House Republicans chose to pass a budget that ignores our nation’s priorities. The American people deserve better."
03.25.2015	Washington, DC – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives will consider the Democratic budget alternative as part of consideration of the Fiscal Year 2016 Budget. The Democratic proposal includes a provision authored by Budget Committee Member Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) to improve access to long-term care in the United States. “Long-term care is a concern that nearly every American has faced, or will face, as our population ages,” said Dingell. “We have made great strides to improve our healthcare system in the last few years, but we have not addressed long-term health care for seniors or the disabled, and not dealing with it doesn’t make the problem go away. The existing long-term care system is complex, confusing and almost impossible to navigate. Current programs leave huge gaps in access to care, and people are forced to rely on a patchwork of private insurance, public programs and unpaid family care givers. It is long past time for a new approach that can help seniors and those with disabilities get the care they need.” Dingell’s amendment, which is cosponsored by Ranking Member of the House Budget Committee, Congressman Chris Van Hollen (MD-08), and Representatives Jim McDermott (WA-07), Barbara Lee (CA-13), Mark Pocan (WI-02), Michelle Lujan Grisham (NM-01), and Donald Norcross (NJ-01), creates a deficit-neutral reserve fund in the budget to support enactment of a long-term care bill this Congress. As the United States population continues to age, demand for long-term care is expected to double in the next 40 years. However, neither Medicare nor Medicaid was designed to help seniors with the tasks of daily living, like assistance with eating, getting dressed or bathing. Medicaid is the largest payer of long-term care costs, covering about 42 percent of all long-term care expenditures, but it has strict income eligibility limits. Medicare provides skilled nursing services and home health services only for limited periods of time as part of a patient’s recovery from an acute health episode, and was not designed to provide indefinite long-term care. Similarly, private long-term care insurance is not always affordable or available, and even when people have it, they may exhaust their benefits too quickly. Family caregivers are often called on to support people during a time of need. However, the typical family caregiver spends about 20 hours per week providing unpaid care to a family member for nearly five years, totaling a massive amount of unreimbursed time and energy. Dingell’s amendment would prioritize the establishment of a real long-term care program in the United States.
03.18.2015	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12), a member of the House Budget Committee, is offering two amendments to the Republican budget resolution for FY2016 to ensure seniors, persons with disabilities and working families do not lose access to critical health care services, and to prioritize the establishment of a real long-term care system in the United States. Dingell’s first amendment improves the availability of long-term care insurance for seniors and other Americans, a need that is growing more critical as the U.S. population ages. “Long-term care is a concern that affects all Americans, and I know we all have loved ones who have, or will, face the possibility of needing long-term services and supports,” said Dingell. “In fact as our nation continues to age the demand for long-term care is expected to double in the next 40 years.” The share of the U.S. population aged 65 or older is expected to reach 19 percent by 2030, double what it was in 2000. Experts estimate that 7 in 10 Americans aged 65 or older will need long-term services and supports at some point. However, in the U.S., the costs of long-term care services are currently covered by a patchwork of private insurance, public programs, and reliance on unpaid family caregivers, leaving huge gaps in coverage and access to care for people who either do not qualify for Medicaid, are exhausting their retirement savings on the way to qualifying for Medicaid, or who do not have access to private insurance. In fact, Dingell says, “people are terrified of what the future holds and do not know how to get help, find help or pay for what is needed.” Dingell’s amendment is the first step on the path to a permanent solution to this pressing problem. It creates a deficit-neutral reserve fund in the budget to support enactment of a long-term care insurance bill this Congress. “It is long past time for a new approach that can help American seniors get the services they need, and also put our country’s long-term care system on sounder financial footing,” said Dingell. “This issue just can’t wait, which is why this amendment is so important.” Dingell’s second amendment rejects the $913 billion in cuts to Medicaid over 10 years that is included in the Republican budget. “Turning Medicaid into a block grant, as the Republican budget proposes, is not the answer,” said Dingell. “It does nothing to reduce health costs, but would inevitably shift burdens to the states and would lead to a dramatic cut in health care support for the 69 million Americans who depend on Medicaid, imposing a serious financial hardship on them and their families.” The Congressional Budget Office estimates that turning Medicaid into a block grant would result in states dropping between 14 and 20 million people from Medicaid by the tenth year. This includes the most vulnerable among us including seniors, poor children and their families and persons with disabilities. Yesterday, Dingell spoke on the House floor in opposition to the Republican budget. For video of her speech, please click here.
03.17.2015	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12), a member of the House Budget Committee, gave a floor speech in opposition to House Republican’s FY2016 budget, which was released today. Dingell’s remarks, as prepared for delivery, are below. For video, please click here. “Mr. Speaker, the Republican budget released today would deny working families the opportunity to earn a fair living that used to ensure a strong middle class in this country. “Their budget would hurt seniors – as Republicans have proposed four times before – by ending Medicare as we know it. It would place the burden of balancing the budget on the poor, and keep arbitrary spending caps that hurt young and old alike by decimating Head Start and denying homebound seniors access to meals. It would cut Pell Grants, hurting students seeking higher education. And, it would leave our military lacking the critical resources to defend our country. “Our Democratic budget will honor our promises to seniors and will give someone who works hard the opportunity to earn a fair wage so they can raise their families. It will keep health care affordable and help students seeking to better themselves through education. And, it will invest in our future by repairing our crumbling roads and bridges that are vital to a growing economy. “Our budget stands for protecting Medicare, earning a fair wage, and rebuilding our infrastructure because a strong middle class means a strong America.”
03.11.2015	LANSING—Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) joined with Michigan legislators today to discuss their collective efforts to fight for women and working families in Michigan. These policies include initiatives at the state and federal level to pass paid sick day legislation, establish pay equity laws and curb the skyrocketing costs of child care. “Outdated workplace policies are impacting many working families and keeping them from getting ahead,” said Congresswoman Dingell. “Today, 43 million people do not have a single day of paid sick leave, forcing them to make the impossible choice between caring for themselves or a sick child and losing a paycheck – or losing a job. This is unacceptable, and we are working in Washington and in Lansing to bring our workplace policies into the 21st century. Because when women and families succeed, America succeeds.” Dingell has co-sponsored federal legislation to establish paid sick leave policy. H.R. 932, the Healthy Families Act, would allow workers in businesses with at least 15 employees to earn up to seven days of job-protected paid sick leave each year to care for themselves or a family member. People working in a business with fewer than 15 employees would be able to earn up to seven job-protected days of unpaid sick leave annually. In the Michigan Legislature, Senate Bill 101 and House Bill 4167 would require employers to set aside one hour of paid sick leave for every 30 hours an employee works regardless of whether an employee is part-time or full-time. Recent polling has shown that 86% of Michigan voters support paid sick days regardless of party affiliation. “Once again we are talking about issues that matter to regular people,” said Senate Minority Leader Jim Ananich (D-Flint), sponsor of paid sick leave legislation in the Senate. “Economic stability is a concern for many families in Michigan and legislation like paid sick leave and the child care tax credit will help ease those financial tensions.” Senator Curtis Hertel, Jr. (D-Lansing) also discussed his legislation, Senate Bill 198, to allow eligible families to receive a tax credit of up to 80% of the amount they pay annually in daycare costs. The credit will adjust based on income. Michigan parents pay an average of $9,724 a year for full-time, center-based infant care—roughly one-fifth the state median household income of $48,273. “Today I introduced legislation that will give Michigan parents some much-needed financial relief on child care costs,” said Senator Hertel, Jr. “This is an economic priority for Michigan because working families are spending nearly 20% of their annual income on child care. This legislation will ensure our young kids receive the care they need and working families can get the support they need at an affordable price.” “Working mothers absolutely need support through legislation like the child care tax credit and paid sick leave,” said Pamela Moore, Lansing resident and mother of two. “As a single mother, I had to take off work whenever one of my children wasn’t feeling well and had to adjust my finances. I struggled with it then and I know other working parents, single mothers and fathers are struggling with it now. Paid sick leave and child care tax credits are important policies that could make a huge difference for Michigan workers trying to make ends meet.” At today’s event, Congresswoman Dingell and state elected officials also discussed the need to pass laws to address pay equity for women. As of 2014, women in Michigan are paid 74 cents for every dollar paid to men, amounting to a yearly wage gap of $13,125 between men and women who work full time in the state. Legislative Democrats will again be introducing a package of bills to address pay equity, including legislation to prohibit employers from providing unequal compensation for comparable work based on gender and require employers to provide wage information upon employees’ requests. “Economic issues are essential to the well-being of Michigan women and their families,” Rep. Marcia Hovey-Wright (D-Muskegon) said. “When a woman is paid less than a man who does the same work, or when a woman isn’t able to take a paid sick day to care for a child, the whole family suffers. Democrats are committed to fighting for policies that will bring economic security to every Michigan woman and her family.”
03.10.2015	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) visited Bedford Elementary in Dearborn Heights to read to students in celebration of Reading Month. Dingell read “House Mouse, Senate Mouse” by Peter W. Barnes and Cheryl Shaw Barnes to kindergarten and first grade students. “It was wonderful to spend time reading and talking with students at Bedford Elementary today,” said Dingell. “Reading is such an important tool in helping students find their passion and reach their full potential, and I want to thank the teachers and staff at Bedford and across our state who are inspiring kids to become life-long readers. It was just as fun to hear what the children are thinking about, and it was a great reminder of how critical it is to help young minds think and reflect at early ages." Bedford Elementary and schools nationwide are celebrating Reading Month with events throughout March.
03.03.2015	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement on today’s vote to provide long-term funding for the Department of Homeland Security. “The security of the American people should never be used as a political football. It was important that Republicans joined Democrats today to end this manufactured political crisis, fund our national security and finally provide certainty to the thousands of workers whose livelihoods have been caught in the middle. We should never have reached this point. America's national security is far too important, and the world far too dangerous to be playing these reckless political games. It is my hope that this can be a fresh start and that we can work together in a more bipartisan manner to address the pressing issues facing our nation. That’s what the American people deserve and it’s what they expect.”
03.03.2015	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement in advance of Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s address before a joint session of Congress. “I disagree strongly with the way this invitation was extended. When asked about the speech a month ago, I said the way the invitation was delivered was inappropriate and a breach of diplomatic protocol. I will attend the address because one has a responsibility to listen to world leaders and hear what they have to say. But I continue to believe that the circumstances surrounding this speech have created a political sideshow that detracts from the real discussion at hand - how we best protect the security of our country and our allies around the world."
02.27.2015	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement on the vote to avoid a shutdown of the Department of Homeland Security and extend funding for one week. “It would be unacceptable to shut down the Department of Homeland Security for hours, let alone days. I voted for the authorization to keep the department open for one week because it was the only option available, and as a member of Congress, keeping Americans safe is my first responsibility. There is no room for politics in national security, and it is completely unacceptable that some Republicans in the House of Representatives are treating our security like a political football. “I came to Congress to work in a bipartisan manner for solutions. The longer we continue to play games, the greater the consequences for our nation. I urge my colleagues to pass a clean, long-term Homeland Security bill so we can do the job the American people elected us to do.”
02.27.2015	Washington, DC – After Congresswoman Dingell’s “Valentines for Veterans” project received such an overwhelming response from schools and local veterans, Rep. Debbie Dingell (MI-12) announced she will work with the Ann Arbor VA Hospital, the John D. Dingell VA Hospital and other veteran organizations to start a year-round program that encourages students to create artwork for veterans. “The response to ‘Valentines for Veterans’ was touching, with thousands of students and residents coming together to show our veterans how much they are loved,” said Dingell. “Responding to the success of the project and the smiles it brought to veterans’ faces, we are working with the community to extend the project year-round. The ‘Sending Smiles to Vets’ program will engage grade school children on an ongoing basis to bring cheer to hospital rooms and community gathering places and reach even more veterans.” In a bipartisan manner, Congresswoman Dingell invites other Members and elected officials at all levels to join her to deliver the artwork to VA hospitals and veteran service organizations. Dingell was joined by Congressman Tim Walberg (MI-07) to deliver valentines earlier this month. The first “Sending Smiles to Vets” delivery will occur around the St. Patrick’s Day holiday. Those who wish to participate may drop off artwork at Dingell’s Michigan offices anytime between now and Friday, March 13th, or call the Dearborn office at 313-278-2936 to arrange for pickup. The program will also celebrate spring, fall, and Thanksgiving. Dearborn Office 19855 West Outer Drive Suite 103-E Dearborn, MI 48124 Ypsilanti Office 301 West Michigan Avenue Suite 400 Ypsilanti, MI 48197 Dingell launched the “Valentines for Veterans” project in February to engage local schools and organizations in showing their appreciation to our veterans. Over 2,500 valentines were made and delivered to veterans at the Ann Arbor VA Hospital and John D. Dingell VA Hospital. Congresswoman Dingell, staff and friends delivered the valentines to veterans at both hospitals.
02.26.2015	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12), a member of the House Committee on Natural Resources, addressed the Great Lakes Congressional Breakfast and spoke of her pride in joining Senator Debbie Stabenow (MI), Congresswoman Candice Miller (MI-10) and bipartisan members of the Michigan delegation in introducing a bill to protect the Great Lakes from invasive species. The Defending Our Great Lakes Act, introduced today, will improve the invasive species control systems on the Mississippi River to prevent Asian carp from ever reaching the Great Lakes. In her comments this morning, Dingell spoke of growing up on the St. Clair River. "Every day, I took the water for granted," she said. "We swam, fished, collected minnows, ice skated and ice fished. I learned the language of boats, barges and buoys. Heaven to me then and still now is floating down the river in an inner tube. "Protecting the Great Lakes is personal to me and critical for our state," Dingell continued. "It is also an excellent example of how the Michigan delegation can work together in a bipartisan way. Congresswoman Miller and I agreed early on to work together on a number of issues, including keeping the Asian carp out of our waters, and I will be her Democratic partner in getting this legislation through the House. Just one Asian carp entering the Great Lakes would have a devastating impact on tourism, fishing and conservation, and this issue will be a top priority for me on the Natural Resources Committee.” "Protecting our magnificent Great Lakes from Asian carp is not a partisan issue," said Congresswoman Miller. "This destructive species doesn't care whether you are a Republican or Democrat, and they pose a very serious threat to our Lakes and those that rely on them. I look forward to working with Rep. Dingell to help advance this important measure in the House." Invasive species pose a grave threat to the Great Lakes ecosystem and the region's $7 billion recreational fishing and $16 billion recreational boating industries. Asian carp in particular consume 20 percent of their bodyweight each day, and once they are introduced into a foreign ecosystem it is virtually impossible to eradicate them. The Defending Our Great Lakes Act authorizes the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to improve the Brandon Road Lock and Dam site in Joliet, IL. The Corps is also required to use the latest technology to prevent Asian carp from entering the lakes when working on the Brandon Road site. The Great Lakes and Mississippi River Interbasin Study (GLMRIS) identified Brandon Road as a potential choke-point that could let Asian carp into the Great Lakes if no action was taken to improve the site. There are 11 additional members of the Michigan delegation who are original cosponsors of the bill, including Senator Gary Peters (D-MI), Representatives Dan Benishek (R-MI), Mike Bishop (R-MI), John Conyers (D-MI), Bill Huizenga (R-MI), Dan Kildee (D-MI), Sandy Levin (D-MI), John Moolenaar (R-MI), Dave Trott (R-MI), Fred Upton (R-MI) and Tim Walberg (R-MI).
02.18.2015	Dearborn, MI – Today, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12), a member of the House Budget Committee, applauded U.S. and Canadian officials for reaching an agreement to construct and operate the U.S. Customs Plaza at the New International Trade Crossing between Detroit and Windsor, Ontario. Under the agreement, the United States would meet its obligations as a partner by providing funding for the operation and staffing of the Customs Plaza. Dingell urged Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Director Shaun Donovan to provide support for the bridge during a Budget Committee hearing earlier this month. “Completing the New International Trade Crossing is a top priority for Michigan that will bring millions of dollars into the economy and create hundreds – if not thousands – of jobs,” said Dingell. “We’ve overcome hurdle after hurdle to move this project forward, and today’s announcement means we are full speed ahead. But the U.S. government must remain committed to doing its part. We’ve never been a nation that sits back and waits for someone else to do our work. We step up, we do our fair share, and we must do what it takes to get this plaza built.” Today, the administration agreed to staff and operate the customs plaza, estimated at a $100 million investment in year one and $50 million annually for ongoing staffing costs thereafter. Dingell specifically thanked OMB Director Donovan for his efforts to secure the funding needed to complete the international agreement.
02.14.2015	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12), Congressman Tim Walberg (MI-07), staff and friends delivered valentines to veterans at the John D. Dingell VA Medical Center in Detroit. Over the last two weeks, students and residents from across the state, including Ann Arbor, Ypsilanti, Dearborn, Taylor and Belleville pitched in to help with the “Valentines for Veterans” project, creating more than 2,000 handmade cards to show veterans that they are loved. "The valentines drawn by children and residents from the 12th District and across the state were unique, artistic, precious and heart-warming," said Dingell. "They brought a smile to faces and cheer to sterile rooms, and it's important that we continue to find ways to show the men and women who served our country that we’re thinking of them, we love them, and we’ll never forget their service and sacrifice.” Tomorrow, Dingell will continue to deliver valentines to veterans at the VA Ann Arbor Healthcare System.
02.10.2015	With the end of open enrollment for the Health Insurance Marketplace quickly approaching, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) wants to ensure that those who remain uninsured or wish to re-enroll and have not yet done so have the opportunity to discuss issues and ask questions before the February 15th deadline. Dingell will host a tele-townhall on Thursday, February 12th with USDHHS Region 5 Director Kathleen Falk to provide information on enrollment, provide important tax information, and answer any questions residents may have regarding how to get enrolled or why signing up matters and helps them. WHO: Congresswoman Debbie Dingell and US Dept. of Health and Human Services Region 5 Director Kathleen Falk WHAT: Tele-townhall WHEN: Thursday, February 12 at 5:30 p.m. HOW: Constituents can participate in the tele-townhall by calling 800-369-2179 and using the passcode 5410725. For more information on how to find local assistance, please visit healthcare.gov.
02.09.2015	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12), a member of the House Budget Committee, delivered the keynote address at University of Michigan’s Division of Hematology/Oncology annual awards dinner, calling on Congress to stop playing politics with critical medical research. The National Institutes of Health (NIH) and other government institutions are critical to making progress on finding treatments and cures for devastating diseases such as cancer and Alzheimer’s and many others, and funding has actually fallen behind in real dollars. The reality is, when adjusted for inflation NIH funding in Fiscal Year 2015 is 22 percent lower than Fiscal Year 2003, and if Congress does not act, these cuts will only get worse. Congresswoman Dingell, a lifelong advocate for medical research, who is the founder and past chair of both the National Women’s Health Resource Center and the Children’s Inn at the NIH, observed to those gathered that we have a crisis in this country. “Every dollar we cut from the NIH has a negative impact across the country,” said Dingell. “We can’t keep shooting ourselves in the foot by cutting these programs even further. Having robust funding for NIH is a win for researchers, a win for patients, a win for students, and most importantly a win for the American people.” Dingell discussed a number of options to help increase the budget for NIH and other critical research institutions, including a plan proposed by Rep. Rosa DeLauro (CT) to make NIH exempt from the mandatory budget caps that are a part of sequestration. Other options include making funding for NIH mandatory, which would divorce it from politics and separate it from the annual appropriations process in Congress, or providing funding for the agency on a two or three year basis to give researchers more certainty to plan for the future. “All of these ideas must be considered if we are to achieve a common goal: getting research funding back to adequate levels so we can make progress on finding cures for the most devastating diseases we face,” said Dingell. “I will work as hard as I possibly can with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to make progress on this critical goal.” Allocating federal dollars to research is also a wise investment in the economy. Every $1 million that NIH invests in research generates more than $2 million in economic activity, and every research grant leads to 7 new jobs being created. Dingell also told the group that while she thinks President Obama’s budget is a good blueprint for creating jobs and growing the middle class, she has serious concerns about his proposal to reduce funding for graduate medical education. “We’re already facing a looming shortage of primary care physicians, and I think this would be the wrong approach to take,” said Dingell. “I intend to work for full funding of GME programs that have been proven to be very successful in supporting teaching institutions like yours.”
02.05.2015	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12), Senator Debbie Stabenow (MI) and Senator Gary Peters (MI) sent a letter to U.S. Census Bureau Director John Thompson this week in support of a proposal to test a Middle East and North Africa (MENA) category for inclusion in the 2020 Census. According to the Arab American Institute, Michigan is home to the second highest concentration of Arab Americans in the country, but the Census currently provides no option for people who are from the MENA region to identify themselves. This proposal would provide a more accurate picture of the demographic composition of the United States and ensure government resources are allocated appropriately. “Excluding the MENA category has serious ramifications for members of these communities, many of whom live in the State of Michigan,” the members wrote. “We all want to improve the accuracy of the Census, and it is our belief that including a broad MENA category would help us achieve this shared goal.” While the Census Bureau estimates the number of Arab Americans in the United States at 1.8 million, the Arab American Institute estimates that the population is closer to 3.7 million. In Michigan, the Census estimates the population is at 191,600, while the Arab American Institute estimates that more than 500,000 Arab Americans call the state home. This misrepresentation in population size has led to barriers for representation, employment, health and education. For example, since the MENA community is not included in the Census, they are not eligible for protection under Section 203 of the Voting Rights Act, which ensures the availability of foreign language ballots. Adding a MENA category to the Census will help address these disadvantages and ensure the proper allocation of government resources. The members’ letter to Director Thompson can be read in full below and attached. The Honorable John H. Thompson Director United States Census Bureau 4600 Silver Hill Road Washington, DC 20230 Dear Director Thompson: We write in support of a proposal by the U.S. Census Bureau to test a Middle East and North Africa (MENA) category for possible inclusion in the 2020 Census. At present, the Census does not provide an option for people who are from this region to identify themselves. This proposal would provide a more accurate picture of the demographic composition of the United States, which is critical to ensure the proper allocation of government resources. Excluding the MENA category has serious ramifications for members of these communities, many of whom live in the State of Michigan. For example, since the MENA community is not included in the Census they are not eligible for protection under Section 203 of the Voting Rights Act, which ensures the availability of foreign language ballots. Additional examples include researchers having difficulty conducting studies on health disparities without this critical information and challenges monitoring employment discrimination against Arab Americans without accurate count of the size and location of the population. These are only a few examples of the disadvantages the MENA community faces as a result of their exclusion from the Census. We all want to improve the accuracy of the Census, and it is our belief that including a broad MENA category would help us achieve this shared goal. We encourage you to move forward with this proposal as quickly as possible. Thank you for your consideration of this request. Sincerely,
02.04.2015	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12), a member of the House Budget Committee, today questioned Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Director Shaun Donovan about funding for the U.S. Customs Plaza at the New International Trade Crossing. “The budget doesn’t address the third bridge crossing again,” said Dingell. “So could we ask that we do work with the White House and the appropriate agencies to look at the funding of the customs plaza that is so critical. The Canadian government has been so very, very supportive and we do need the U.S. Government to help.” Donovan told Dingell that they have been working closely with them and is “optimistic it can move forward.” Video of Dingell’s question and Donovan’s answer can be viewed here.
02.04.2015	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today applauded Ford’s announcement that the company will add 1,550 new jobs to support growing demand for the 2015 F-150, including 500 jobs at Dearborn Stamping and Dearborn Diversified. “The new F-150 is off to a strong start in 2015, and today’s announcement is further proof that Ford’s commitment to innovation is paying off,” said Dingell. “Thanks to the F-150’s forward-looking design, and the incredible skill of our workers in Dearborn, Ford is leading the way in ushering in a new truck that is lighter, stronger and more fuel efficient, and drivers are excited to get behind the wheel. This is why Congress must focus on policies that will continue to encourage innovation and help create more good-paying jobs like these in Michigan and across the country.”
02.03.2015	Washington, DC – Valentine’s Day is February 14th, and Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) is inviting local students to participate in the “Valentines for Veterans” program by making homemade valentines for local veterans to show them they are loved and appreciated by the community. “This Valentine’s Day, we need your help on an important project to make sure our local veterans know we love them as much as they love our country,” said Dingell. The cards will be delivered over the Valentine’s Day weekend by Congresswoman Dingell and friends to both the John D. Dingell VA Medical Center and the Ann Arbor VA. Those who have made valentines can call Dingell’s Dearborn office at 313-278-2936 to arrange for pickup, or drop them off at either of Dingell’s Michigan offices between now and Thursday, February 12th. Please call 313-278-2936 with questions. Dearborn Office 19855 West Outer Drive Suite 103-E Dearborn, MI 48124 Ypsilanti Office 301 West Michigan Avenue Suite 400 Ypsilanti, MI 48197
02.02.2015	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12), a member of the House Budget Committee, today released the following statement on the President's FY2016 budget request. "The President’s budget request released today provides an important framework for budget discussions this year. It replaces harmful sequestration cuts with a budget that will help grow the middle class and accelerate and sustain economic growth in this country. If America is to remain a premier nation, we must invest in cutting-edge research, support quality education and training, rebuild our crumbling infrastructure, and strengthen our manufacturing sector. The President’s budget outlines critical investments in our future, and as a member of the Budget Committee, I will work hard with my colleagues to advance these priorities.”
01.20.2015	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today released the following statement in response to the President’s State of the Union address: “Tonight, President Obama laid out a plan to keep the state of our union strong by investing directly in the middle class – the workers that keep our economy going and the families that make our communities prosper. “While we still have work to do in Michigan and across the country, the economy is showing signs of progress, and the resurgence of the American auto industry is proof positive that when we focus on policies that help the middle class, it works. Thanks to the Auto Recovery Act – and the sheer grit and determination of the American auto workers – our auto industry has come roaring back to life, and it is important that the President emphasized plans to continue to boost manufacturing and close tax loopholes so we can keep high paying jobs in Michigan and bring manufacturing back to America. “But while economic indicators show things are improving, too many people in Michigan and across the country still don’t feel it. Wages have remained stagnant, the cost of consumer goods has increased, and middle class families are working hard and still falling behind. It is critical that we continue to grow the middle class instead of shrinking it, and ensure that more people share in the progress that we’ve made. “For starters, our workers and manufacturers must be able to compete on a level playing field. Unless we have policies that address currency manipulation, the mother of all trade barriers, we will not be doing enough to protect American jobs or level the playing field for the American worker. “Another important tool is to ensure that workers are armed with the skills they need to get a job. The President’s proposal to allow students to earn the first half of a bachelor’s degree at no cost is a step in the right direction, but we need to do more. As the chair of Wayne State University Board of Governors, I have witnessed firsthand the positive transformation that comes from a quality education, and we should ensure that college remains affordable by working to reduce student loan rates. We also need to make sure that no one faces financial hardship because their kid gets sick or they need to take care of a newborn. The President’s plan to allow Americans to earn sick days and family leave is a critical stepping stone to helping more individuals balance family and work. “These are not Democratic or Republican issues, but issues we should all work to solve together. The hardworking men and women of Michigan want us to come together to help create jobs, grow our economy and ensure that everyone has a shot at the American dream, and that’s what I intend to do.”
01.19.2015	WASHINGTON, DC - Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) releasesed the following statement honoring the life and legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. "Today, we recognize not only the life and service of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., but the ideals of peace and justice that he taught. I was lucky enough as a child to hear Dr. King speak weeks before he was assassinated. To this day I remember the power of that speech and the turmoil of the times. "Dr. King taught us to live in a way that recognizes the inherent dignity and value in each and every person, and to always remember that it is the merit of our ideas, not the power we possess, that can change minds, change this nation and change the world. "We continue to live in turbulent times. The challenges are different, but they remain real. We need to pursue serious dialogue with diverse members of our communities to address, talk, listen and seek answers and solutions for the realities that we face. Dr. King said that 'the ultimate measure of a man is not where he stands in moments of comfort and convenience, but where he stands at times of challenge and controversy.' His words are as true today as they were then, and it is my hope that as we celebrate his life, we can rededicate ourselves to the ideals of justice and opportunity that Dr. King fought for all his life."
01.15.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) applauded Michigan Governor Rick Snyder’s decision to veto Senate Bill 789. Dingell has recently become more outspoken on issues related to domestic violence, using her own personal experiences to advocate for victims. She wrote a letter to the Governor this week urging him to veto the bill, and yesterday, talked about her experiences with Michigan Radio’s Cynthia Canty. To listen to the interview, please click here.
01.15.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) applauded Michigan Governor Rick Snyder’s decision to veto Senate Bill 789, legislation that would have allowed concealed-weapons permits to be issued to individuals with a history of violence and abuse. Dingell has recently become more outspoken on issues related to domestic violence, using her own personal experiences to advocate for victims. This week she wrote a letter urging Governor Snyder to veto the bill. “I applaud Governor Snyder for taking action today that most certainly saved the lives of many women and children in Michigan,” said Dingell. “This wasn’t a partisan issue, but one that affects all women and families in our state. Every child deserves to feel safe and every woman deserves to be able to live and work in a community without fear that she may be stalked or hurt.”
01.13.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) sent a letter to Michigan Governor Rick Snyder urging him to veto SB 789, a bill approved by the Michigan state legislature that would allow concealed-weapons permits to be issued to individuals with a history of violence and abuse. Dingell has recently become more outspoken on issues related to domestic violence. “As someone who lived as a child in an environment that could erupt violently at any point, I recognize provisions in this legislation as a serious threat to protecting Michigan women, children and communities, and quite frankly even men,” wrote Dingell. “Emotions in volatile and mentally unstable situations are unpredictable and far too often have disastrous outcomes. I will not forget the nights of shouting. The fear. The dread that my brother, my sisters and my parents would die. I will not forget locking ourselves in closets or hiding places hoping we wouldn't be found. Calling for help, but finding no one willing to help, to acknowledge the problem, or intervene. “Signing legislation that would allow firearms in the hands of domestic abusers is a formula for disaster that would endanger too many people in our communities. We must demonstrate zero tolerance for bullying or abuse; respect and implement processes that protect individual liberties, but use common sense to eliminate potential violence." The letter can be read in full below. The Honorable Rick Snyder Governor of Michigan PO Box 30013 Lansing, MI Dear Governor Snyder: There are few subjects that bring out real, raw and emotional feelings more than the right to bear arms. In recent years, I have found more of a voice to speak on this issue. My voice is shaped as someone who spent her childhood in raw terror she might die at any time when a family member lost his temper, but also as someone living with a man who symbolizes why there is the basic freedom to own a gun in this country. I have come to recognize over the years that my childhood fear was not a basis or a foundation for responsible gun owners, but I have a firm conviction that we need to keep guns out of the hands of those with mental illness or history of violence. I have also come to understand that doing this is full of difficult details and challenges. Regardless of the challenges, I do know one thing – someone who has demonstrated they are capable of domestic abuse or who has terrorized or threatened a woman or child, should not in any way, shape or form have access to guns, yet alone be allowed to carry them as a concealed weapon. The state legislature recently passed legislation SB 789, which would allow the state to issue gun permits to domestic abusers. As someone who lived for years in an environment that could erupt violently at any point, I recognize provisions in this legislation as a serious threat to protecting Michigan women, children and communities, and quite frankly even men. Emotions in volatile and mentally unstable situations are unpredictable and far too often have disastrous outcomes. I will not forget the nights of shouting. The fear. The dread that my brother, my sisters and my parents would die. I will not forget locking ourselves in closets or hiding places hoping we wouldn't be found. Calling for help, but finding no one willing to help, to acknowledge the problem, or intervene. Unfortunately, the experiences I had are still all too common in Michigan. From 2003 to 2012, Michigan saw 341 domestic violence homicides and over half those deaths were a result of gun violence. From 2002 to 2011, over 10,000 people in Michigan were killed with a gun – that is almost twice the number of combat deaths in Iraq and Afghanistan combined. Every child deserves to feel safe. Every woman deserves to be able to live in and work in a community without the panic she may be stalked or hurt. And no one should have to live with a constant fear of guns and violence. To this very day, I can feel that panic and anxiety, and I would do anything to shield others from it. Signing legislation that would allow firearms in the hands of domestic abusers is a formula for disaster and endangering too many people in our communities. We must demonstrate zero tolerance for bullying or abuse; respect and implement processes that protect individual liberties, but use common sense to eliminate potential violence. I encourage you to veto SB 789 so we can prevent some in our communities from living with the fear and nightmares I still have today. I look forward to working with you to continue to address domestic violence. Sincerely, Debbie Dingell Member of Congress
01.12.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) released the following statement today after touring the North American International Auto Show in Detroit. “After a great day at the Auto Show, I am very inspired by all the innovation happening with the domestic auto industry. It was great to tour the show with a bipartisan delegation from Michigan, and we are all committed to working together for our state. The auto show is a reminder of the strength of our domestic auto industry, which is why I remain committed to their success and ensuring a fair trade deal. It means good jobs for the working men and women of Michigan and this country. “Another important issue that came up today was the corporate average fuel economy (CAFE) standards. These critical regulations set a high standard for auto manufacturers to meet in terms of fuel efficiency to help ensure our cars remain the best in the world. The agreement on CAFE which President Obama reached is one of the most important environmental accomplishments of this generation. Saving more fuel on the road helps promote American energy independence and puts cash back in the pockets of consumers. When the standards are fully implemented, Americans will save approximately 30 billion gallons of gas per year. President Obama deserves real credit for working with all stakeholders to achieve consensus on this critical issue. GM's CEO today reiterated their commitment to making those standards. “Strong CAFE standards continue to be a win-win for consumers, the industry and the environment. The companies are dedicating many resources and technology know-how to meet those standards and deserve credit for the work they are doing.”
01.12.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Demonstrating their commitment to bipartisanship, the five freshman members of the Michigan Congressional Delegation today made their first trip back to the state together to tour the North American International Auto Show in Detroit. Representatives Mike Bishop (MI-08), Debbie Dingell (MI-12), Brenda Lawrence (MI-14), John Moolenaar (MI-04), and David Trott (MI-11) visited the Ford, General Motors, Chrysler and Toyota exhibits, and later met with Dan Gilbert and his team to learn about developments in the rejuvenation of Detroit. The delegation is committed to working together to grow the economy and promote manufacturing and good jobs in the state, and to advance other issues critical to Michigan. “What’s clear from our visit to the North American International Auto Show today is that Michigan’s congressional delegation is united in helping our auto industry excel,” said Rep. Mike Bishop (MI-08). “Our state makes some of the best cars and trucks in the world, and I look forward to working with my colleagues to ensure our auto industry and economy can continue to grow well into the future.” “It was great to visit the auto show today with a bipartisan delegation from Michigan and feel the energy of the show,” said Rep. Debbie Dingell (MI-12). “We are all committed to working together for the people of Michigan.” "Today's visit to the North American International Auto Show was a great opportunity for me and my colleagues to support our Detroit auto industry," Rep. Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) said. "We are all in this together." "The North American International Auto Show is great event for our state,” said Rep. John Moolenaar (MI-04). “It's an outstanding showcase for the new products that are developed by hardworking people here in Michigan." “Michigan’s auto industry is essential to our state’s economy—contributing $14.5 billion in personal income in Michigan—and the North American International Auto Show is an excellent event to showcase Michigan’s leading role in automotive manufacturing,” said Rep. David Trott (MI-11). “It is critical that Michigan’s representatives work together and forge bipartisan solutions in Congress that will support our auto industry and continue to bring more automotive jobs to Michigan.” The freshman delegation members were joined throughout the day by senior Representatives John Conyers (MI-13) and Candice Miller (MI-10) to offer their guidance and wisdom.
01.08.2015	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) was joined by a diverse group of colleagues, union and environmental activists, faith and social justice leaders and consumer advocates to oppose Fast Track Authority, a policy designed to ram trade agreements such as the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) through Congress with little transparency or debate. A proposal to grant these powers to President Obama is expected to be unveiled early this year. “The President’s policies have helped bring back American manufacturing, and our auto industry is now at the front end of this renaissance,” said Dingell. “But a bad trade agreement jeopardizes the shared progress we’ve made. Fast Track does not allow Congress to conduct the necessary oversight to ensure trade legislation protects our economy and our workers. And it does not allow Congress to address countries that manipulate their currency to gain unfair advantage. This is the mother of all trade barriers.” The effects of currency manipulation are being felt in the auto industry right now. With the Japanese yen at approximately ¥120/$1, the subsidy provided to Japanese companies exporting to the U.S. now tops $8,000 a vehicle. This has a tremendous impact on the competitiveness of domestic auto companies. Toyota, for example, made more in profits last year from currency than Ford made all last year in their worldwide operations. “This is unfair and puts U.S. jobs at risk,” said Dingell. “It’s not free trade if all you end up exporting are middle class jobs. What I know about the auto industry is that they can out-compete any of their competitors. But they can’t out-compete the Bank of Japan and the Japanese Government.”
01.07.2015	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today accompanied the President on his visit to the Ford Michigan Assembly Plant in Wayne. Dingell has over 30 years of experience in the automotive industry and is the past chair of the Manufacturing Initiative of the American Automotive Policy Council. Following the President's visit, Congresswoman Dingell released the following statement: “It was a great honor for the people of Michigan to host the President today as he highlighted the growth of the domestic auto industry. The auto industry is the backbone of our state’s economy, and a true success story. Thanks to critical policies such as the Auto Recovery Act – and the sheer grit and determination of the American auto workers – the industry has come roaring back to life, and I’m committed to ensuring that it stays that way. I will be working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to strengthen manufacturing, create new jobs and continue to grow the economy in Michigan and across the country.”
01.06.2015	Contact: Hannah Smith 202-225-6031hannah.smith@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell was sworn in as a member of the 114th Congress. Dingell will represent Michigan’s 12th Congressional District, which includes Ann Arbor, Ypsilanti, Dearborn and other Downriver communities including Taylor, Woodhaven and Grosse Ile. “I am honored to represent the 12th District and serve the neighborhoods, communities and families I’ve worked with my entire life,” said Dingell. “My priority is to put the people of Michigan first every single day, and I am eager to get to work on bipartisan solutions that help grow our economy and create good-paying jobs, make sure health care is affordable, and ensure college is within reach for middle class families. These are not Democratic or Republican concerns, and I look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to move our state and our country forward.” Congresswoman Dingell’s offices in Michigan and Washington, DC are already open and ready to serve constituents. Dingell’s district offices continue to be located in easily-accessible locations at 19855 West Outer Drive, Suite 103-E, in Dearborn, and at 301 West Michigan Avenue, Suite 400, in Ypsilanti. Dingell’s Washington office is located at 116 Cannon House Office Building. Constituents are welcome to visit the offices or contact Congresswoman Dingell to share their thoughts and concerns.
12.27.2014	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today reiterated her commitment to creating opportunity and growing the middle class during the first hearing of the House Budget Committee. The committee reviewed the Congressional Budget Office’s (CBO) Budget and Economic Outlook, and Dingell asked questions about reaching the debt limit and the important role federal investments play in creating jobs. For video of Dingell’s questions, and CBO Director Doug Elmendorf’s answers, please click here. “It is critical that the Budget Committee protect the priorities of middle class families,” said Dingell. “While the numbers say the economy is improving, too many working men and women still don’t feel it. Congress must support policies that help grow middle class jobs and increase stagnant wages so working families benefit from the economic recovery.” In addition, today, members of the House Committee on Natural Resources unanimously elected Dingell to serve as ranking member of the new Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee, which is responsible for overseeing federal programs within the committee’s jurisdiction. “I look forward to working with my colleagues to ensure government is doing what it is supposed to do to protect our nation’s natural resources,” said Dingell. Dingell will also serve on the Federal Lands Subcommittee and the Water, Power and Oceans Subcommittee.
