12.10.2018	Rep. Pete Aguilar announced that his bill to honor former Stater Bros. Executive Chairman and Inland Empire philanthropist Jack H. Brown was signed into law by the president on December 6, 2018. The new law renames the post office at 390 West 5th Street in San Bernardino the “Jack H. Brown Post Office Building.” "Jack was a titan in the region who was respected by everyone," said Aguilar. He continued, “He loved our community and spent his life working to make San Bernardino a better place. I’m proud to have known him and to honor him by making his name a permanent fixture in his hometown.” After learning that Rep. Aguilar’s bill had become law the Brown family commented, “Today is a proud day for our entire family. Jack dedicated his life to serving the Inland Empire, and now his memory will forever be enshrined in the heart of San Bernardino, the city he loved so much. We’re grateful for the work of Congressman Aguilar to help make this possible, and look forward to carrying on Jack’s legacy of service to this community.” Rep. Aguilar first introduced the bill in June of 2017 with the support of 50 members of California’s congressional delegation. Before the House voted unanimously to pass the bill, Rep. Aguilar delivered remarks on the House floor in honor of Jack H. Brown which can be viewed here.
11.19.2018	Rep. Pete Aguilar announced that the United States Senate passed his bill to name the United States Post Office located at 390 West 5th Street in San Bernardino after Jack H. Brown, the late Inland Empire philanthropist and community leader who served as Executive Chairman of Stater Bros. Markets. Aguilar introduced the bill in the House of Representatives last year to honor Jack Brown’s memory after he passed away in 2016. The bill passed the House earlier this year. “Jack H. Brown represented what makes the Inland Empire such a great place to live, work and raise a family. He was a compassionate neighbor who dedicated his life to serving the community. His work has changed the lives of countless young people throughout San Bernardino County, and he deserves to be recognized for his lifetime of achievements. Jack’s legacy is a permanent reminder of the good we can all do if we dedicate ourselves to serving others, and I’m proud that his name will serve as a reminder of that legacy in downtown San Bernardino,” said Aguilar. Upon receiving news that the bill to honor Jack had passed the Senate, the Brown family commented, “We’re grateful that both the House and the Senate were able to work in a bipartisan way to honor Jack. He spent a lifetime working to serve the Inland Empire, and we’re proud to see that service recognized by the United States Congress.” Prior to the bill’s passage in the House, Rep. Aguilar delivered a speech on the House Floor in honor of Jack H. Brown which can be viewed here. The bill will now be presented to the president to be signed into law.
10.23.2018	Rep. Pete Aguilar made the ninth stop on his “Job for a Day” tour of the Inland Empire where he worked aboard a Metrolink train bound for Pomona from the San Bernardino Downtown station. While on board, Aguilar helped collect tickets and shadowed both the conductor and passenger engineer. “Our region relies on alternative modes of transportation like this one to create good-paying jobs and help get people in and out of the Inland Empire. Metrolink has always been a great partner, but we need to do more in Congress to make a meaningful investment in our infrastructure if we want to expand and improve transportation options throughout San Bernardino County,” said Rep. Aguilar. “Metrolink’s mission is to provide safe, reliable and efficient service for all of our riders, and we were proud to showcase that mission to Representative Aguilar today. We look forward to continuing to work with our federal partners like Rep. Aguilar to make meaningful investments in transportation infrastructure throughout Southern California,” commented Ronnie Campbell, Metrolink’s co-interim CEO. In Congress, Rep. Aguilar is a steadfast advocate for an infrastructure package that will create jobs and improve transit options in the Inland Empire. As a Member of the House Appropriations Committee, Rep. Aguilar sits on the subcommittee for Transportation, Housing and Urban Development.
10.02.2018	Rep. Pete Aguilar announced that the US Department of the Treasury awarded Neighborhood Partnership Housing Services, Inc. in Rancho Cucamonga $500,000 and AmPac Tri-State CDC, Inc. in Grand Terrace $141,000 through the Community Development Financial Institutions Fund (CDFI Fund). The funding will assist the Inland Empire nonprofits in their mission to provide access to loans, down-payment assistance and home-improvement loans to first-time homebuyers throughout the region, as well as working capital and start-up capital for growing small businesses. “From helping working families become homeowners to providing access to capital for small businesses, the CDFI is a great resource for our region. I’m proud to support this program because it helps Inland Empire families achieve the American dream of homeownership and allows small-business owners to create jobs and grow our local economy,” said Rep. Aguilar. “In this housing market, it is very hard for your average family to purchase a home or make necessary repairs to their homes,” said Clemente Mojica, NPHS Chief Executive Officer. “With the CDFI Fund’s support, NPHS is able to bridge the affordability gap for many low-to-moderate income families and create safer living environments for existing homeowners throughout the Inland Valley.” “Capital for small businesses remains among the top three reasons why businesses do not survive and why many existing businesses cannot thrive,” said Founder/President, Hilda Kennedy. “These funds will provide critical assistance for this region for helping businesses get the funds they need for working capital and to add new employees. It is true that small business are the drive train to our economy and these funds will help the Inland Empire economy.” Rep. Aguilar has been a consistent advocate for the CDFI program. As a member of the House Appropriations Committee, he successfully fought for an increase in funding for the program for Fiscal Year 2018.
09.25.2018	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar announced a National Science Foundation (NSF) award of $749,869 for the Community College Cyber Pilot Program (C3P) at California State University, San Bernardino (CSUSB). The funding will allow CSUSB to develop a pilot program in which faculty will mentor thirty students from five community colleges to help them find federal jobs in cyber security. The purpose of the program is to increase the level of diversity among students enrolled in cyber security programs and allow members of underrepresented communities to engage in the field. “Cyber Security is an increasingly important part of our overall national security strategy,” said Rep. Aguilar. “I’m proud to announce this funding which will allow Cal State San Bernardino to grow their reputation as a leader in the cyber-security field while growing our nation’s pool of cyber talent.” Dr. Tony Coulson, Director of the Cyber Security Center at CSUSB, commented, “Cybersecurity is an important concern nationally and in this region. This program will help improve the pipeline of critically needed cyberskills. CSUSB is helping provide national leadership in these initiatives.” Rep. Aguilar has been a consistent advocate for federal investments into cyber security education programs, and has successfully used his position on the House Appropriations Committee to increase funding for the Department of Defense (DOD) Cyber Scholarship Program, which has granted students at CSUSB full tuition and guaranteed employment with the DOD upon completion of their degrees. Earlier this year, his bill to expand access to that program to students of color was signed into law.
09.13.2018	Rep. Pete Aguilar announced a federal grant of $474,422 for the San Manuel Band of Mission Indians Fire Department. The grant will allow San Manuel to hire three new firefighters over a three-year period and was funded by the Federal Emergency Management Administration (FEMA) Staffing for Adequate Fire & Emergency Response (SAFER) Grant Program. The grant award will partially fund these positions over a three year period, with the Tribe covering the remainder with matching funds. In addition to providing emergency services to protect tribal citizens and property, the San Manuel Fire Department plays a critical role in firefighting in the region. The Department has deployed to assist with six California wildfires, including the Mendocino-Complex Fire, during the 2018 fire season. “San Bernardino County fire agencies work together at the county, city and tribal levels to help keep our community safe from the devastating wildfires that California faces each year,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “I’m proud to announce this funding for the San Manuel Fire Department, which will help them increase the number of trained firefighters who are working to safeguard the reservation and surrounding community.” Michael J. Smith, Chief of the San Manuel Fire Department, commented, “San Manuel appreciates the support that it has received from the FEMA grant programs, and remains actively engaged in supporting the California Master Mutual Aid system in responding to wildland fires and other emergencies throughout our state. Support such as this grant enables our Tribal Fire Department to have the resources to respond with our neighboring fire departments to meet the historic challenges of recent wildfire activity in the region.” “This initiative will not only enhance public safety and fire suppression capabilities of our Tribe, but will also extend these protections to our neighbors in the community,” said San Manuel Chairwoman Lynn Valbuena. “With the addition of three new firefighters, San Manuel Fire Department will have the ability to make a greater impact on safety in the region. San Manuel is grateful for this partnership with FEMA.” A Member of the House Appropriations Committee, Rep. Aguilar successfully fought for an increase in FEMA Grant funding for local fire departments for Fiscal Year 2018. Earlier this year, Rep. Aguilar held a workshop for local fire departments to learn more about the grant application process for FEMA grants.
09.05.2018	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar announced $355,148 in federal funding for the San Bernardino County Fire Protection District (SBCFPD). The funding, which will be used to provide hazardous materials training for San Bernardino County firefighters, comes from the Federal Emergency Management Administration’s (FEMA) Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Fire Prevention Operations and Safety Program. “California is facing an exceptionally challenging fire season, and we need to do all we can to make sure that our local firefighters have every resource they need,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “Earlier this year I hosted a workshop to connect local fire departments with critical federal resources because we need to make sure they’re equipped to handle any emergency. San Bernardino County firefighters have demonstrated their heroism time and time again, and I’m proud to announce these funds that will provide training to help keep them safe and help keep our community safe.” "The men and women of the San Bernardino County Fire Protection District are extremely grateful to Congressman Aguilar and FEMA for their support of San Bernardino County by awarding our agency the grant," stated Fire Chief Mark Hartwig. "This grant will help us continue to protect our citizens by providing additional hazardous materials training to our team. Funding will allow the Fire Protection District to bolster our Hazmat capabilities by over 40% daily. Additionally, in conjunction with the California State Office of Emergency Services, the Fire Protection District will also be able to assist on any type of Hazmat response throughout the State of California. This is great news for the residents of San Bernardino County and the great state of California." As part of his efforts to bring federal resources into the Inland Empire, Rep. Aguilar held a grant training workshop for local fire departments earlier this year. The workshop, which was attended by representatives from SBCFPD, focused on best practices for FEMA grant applications, including the AFG Program that funded this award. As a member of the House Appropriations Committee, Rep. Aguilar has been a consistent advocate for the AFG Program and successfully fought for a funding increase in Fiscal Year 2018.
09.04.2018	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar announced that his office will participate in the Congressional App Challenge (CAC). The CAC is an annual competition open to middle and high school students throughout the country. Students create original software applications, or “apps,” to compete against other students in their respective Congressional Districts. The winner for California’s 31st Congressional District will be selected by a panel of local experts from the Inland Empire. The winning app is eligible to be displayed in the Capitol Building and to be featured on Rep. Aguilar's website. The winning student will be invited to the #HouseofCode Reception in Washington, DC. “I love showing off the wide range of talent Inland Empire students have, which is why I’m excited to host the Congressional App Challenge in the 31st District for the first time this year. We know that STEM jobs are going to play a major role in our economy in the coming years, so I’m glad to have this opportunity to expose our students to skills like coding and design,” said Rep. Aguilar. To compete in the Congressional App Challenge, students within the 31st Congressional District must register at CongressionalAppChallenge.us by September 10, 2018. For more information, please visit Aguilar.House.gov or call (909) 890-4445.
08.28.2018	Today, Rep. Aguilar announced over $5.8 million in federal funding for SAC Health System (SACHS) as part of the Health Resources and Services Administration’s (HRSA) Teaching Health Center Graduate Medical Education (THCGME) Program. The funding will help SACHS continue its medical residency program, allowing residents to train in a community-based health care setting in the Inland Empire. There are currently 37 medical residents completing their residencies through SACHS, including 17 in family medicine, 12 in pediatrics, and 8 in psychiatrics. “Every Inland Empire resident should have access to high-quality health care regardless of their economic situation, and SACHS plays a major role in accomplishing that goal,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “I’m proud to announce this funding, which will allow more medical residents to train and treat patients in our community and lead to better health outcomes for underserved families throughout San Bernardino County.” Dr. Kevin Shannon, Assistant Chief Medical Officer for SAC Health System, said, “With bipartisan support, including that of Rep. Aguilar for the last four years, SACHS has benefitted from ongoing Teaching Health Center (THC) funding from HRSA. A recent national study showed that it is three times more likely for graduates of THC-funded primary care training programs to practice in community health centers. We have seen that up close: half of our graduating class inquired about staying to practice with us, as they see how effective a federally-qualified health center is at meeting the many and varied needs of our patients. This funding makes a difference.”
08.15.2018	On Monday, Rep. Pete Aguilar’s bill to connect students of color with the Department of Defense (DoD) Cyber Scholarship Program, the OPPORTUNITY Act, was signed into law by President Trump as part of H.R. 5515, the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2019. The new law will help students who attend Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs), Hispanic Serving Institutions (HSIs), and Asian American and Native American Pacific Islander Serving Institutions (AANAPISIs) access the Cyber Scholarship Program. “We know that cyber threats to our national security are ongoing, and we need to make sure that we have the most highly qualified cyber defense force anywhere in the world. I’m proud that my bill was signed into law because it will make sure that communities where these types of opportunities haven’t traditionally been available will not be overlooked as the Department of Defense builds the next generation of our nation’s cyber defense experts,” said Rep. Aguilar. The Department of Defense Cyber Scholarship Program was restarted last year when Rep. Aguilar secured $5 million for the program through the Department of Defense Appropriations bill. As a result of that funding, 40 students across the country, including two at California State University, San Bernardino, received full tuition, a $30,000 annual stipend, a paid summer internship with a federal defense agency, and civilian employment with the Department of Defense upon graduation from the program. This year, Rep. Aguilar secured an additional $2 million in funding for the program, raising the total funding level to $7 million.
08.01.2018	Last week, Rep. Pete Aguilar introduced H.R. 6579, the Recent Graduates in Start-Ups and Innovation Act. The bill would create a program to allow a no-interest deferment of federal student loans for recent college graduates who open a small business or innovative start-up in a designated Opportunity Zone. Designed to spur economic growth in areas where businesses have traditionally struggled, the Opportunity Zone program attracts investors by allowing them to delay paying taxes on profits made from investments in businesses within Opportunity Zones. “The burden of student-loan debt makes it more difficult for recent graduates to start their own businesses, forcing them to compete for jobs rather than creating them. I introduced this bill because I believe we need to help entrepreneurs in communities like the Inland Empire get their businesses off the ground to start creating jobs and growing our local economy,” said Rep. Aguilar. “There is no question that most American job growth comes from entrepreneurship. Providing incentives for recent college graduates to take their newly acquired knowledge and start firms in high poverty areas is a great idea for putting private sector job creation exactly where it is needed. Given the poverty issues in the San Bernardino area, Congressman Aguilar's bill would be an excellent addition to efforts to tackle the local poverty issue,” commented Inland Empire economist John Husing, Ph.D. Earlier this year, Rep. Aguilar announced that 27 Opportunity Zones had been established in San Bernardino in addition to one in Upland, one in Grand Terrace, and one in Redlands. A map of the Opportunity Zones in the 31st District is available here.
07.25.2018	Today, the House Appropriations Committee passed two amendments offered by Rep. Pete Aguilar to the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations bill for fiscal year (FY) 2019. The amendments prohibit the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) from deporting, detaining or initiating removal proceedings for Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) recipients. The first amendment prohibits DHS from deporting DACA recipients who have served or are currently serving in the US Military, the second prohibits the deportation of DACA recipients more broadly, so long as they are in good standing and still meet all the requirements of eligibility for the DACA program. “DACA recipients are American by nearly every measure, and they deserve to know that they have a future in the United States, the country where they grew up. These young people go to our schools, start businesses in our communities, and in some cases serve in our military. The passage of these amendments proves what we have known all along— that there is bipartisan support for protecting Dreamers. If Republican leadership refuses to allow us to pass bipartisan legislation to provide Dreamers with an earned path to citizenship, then we have to find ways to at least protect them from deportation. I’m proud that we moved another step toward that goal by passing these amendments,” said Rep. Aguilar. A passionate advocate for Dreamers, Rep. Aguilar is the coauthor of the bipartisan USA Act, a bill to provide a legal path to citizenship for Dreamers while making commonsense improvements to security at the southwest border. Rep. Aguilar’s remarks on his amendment to prohibit the deportation of military servicemembers can be viewed here, and his remarks on his amendment to prohibit the deportation of all DACA recipients in good standing can be viewed here. Both amendments were passed on a bipartisan basis by voice vote.
07.16.2018	Today, the US House of Representatives passed H.R. 2979, a bill authored by Rep. Pete Aguilar to name the United States Post Office located at 390 West 5th Street in San Bernardino after Jack H. Brown, the former Executive Chairman of Stater Bros. Markets and Inland Empire philanthropist. Jack Brown passed away in late 2016, and Rep. Aguilar introduced the bill last year to honor his memory. “Jack Brown was a giant in our community, and I know that the Inland Empire misses his leadership and service,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “His commitment to making the Inland Empire a better place to live, work and raise a family was inspiring to me, and had a profound impact on countless lives in our region. Although he spent the end of his life in Redlands, Jack liked to remind people that San Bernardino was his ‘hometown.’ He was a proud graduate of San Bernardino High School, and never stopped fighting for the city that raised him. I’m proud that this bill passed today and that Jack’s name will be on the post office in the center of the hometown he loved so much.” The Brown Family commented, “Jack loved the Inland Empire, and dedicated his life to serving San Bernardino County families. We’re grateful for this legislation, which will allow his memory to live on in the heart of San Bernardino and remind the public of his lifetime of service.” In addition to leading Stater Bros., one of the Inland Empire’s largest employers, Jack Brown dedicated much of his life to community service. He was the founder of the Boys and Girls Club of San Bernardino, the Founding Chairman of the Children’s Fund of San Bernardino County and a committed supporter of Inland Empire veterans and first responders. Prior to the bill’s passage Rep. Aguilar delivered a speech on the House Floor, which can be viewed here. The bill is now pending before the Senate.
07.12.2018	On Friday, July 20, Rep. Pete Aguilar (D-San Bernardino) will hold his 2018 Senior Fair to connect Inland Empire seniors with resources available to them in the region. The fair will take place at Alta Loma Junior High School in Rancho Cucamonga and will offer seniors the chance to hear from local organizations about food assistance and health care programs. Rep. Aguilar’s office will offer assistance with Veterans Benefits, Social Security, Medicare and the IRS. Free health screenings will be offered and lunch will be provided. “Inland Empire seniors should know that they can access all the resources they need right here in our community. I’m happy to be able to offer this service to seniors in our community to ensure they get the information they need about critical services such as health care, nutritional assistance and federal benefits,” said Rep. Aguilar. The 2018 Senior Fair is free to attend and open to constituents of California’s 31st Congressional District. 2018 will mark the fourth consecutive year Rep. Aguilar has hosted a resource fair for Inland Empire seniors.
07.11.2018	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar announced $298,848 in federal funding for the Loma Linda University School of Dentistry (LLUSD). The funding, made available through the Health Resources and Services Administration’s (HRSA) Ryan White HIV/AIDS Program Part F Community Based Dental Partnership Program, will allow LLUSD to continue providing HIV/AIDS training in the curriculums of the dentistry, international dentistry, and hygiene programs. “Loma Linda University offers world-class medical and dental education right here in the Inland Empire, and this funding will help them continue to provide that opportunity to students in our region,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “I’m proud that this funding will allow students from our community to better serve our neighbors living with HIV/AIDS, and to take those skills with them when they leave Loma Linda.” “To date, over 2,700 LLUSD students have received this valuable training as a graduation requirement, and the data reveals that knowledge, skills and attitudes have improved among future dental professionals about HIV/AIDS. Additionally, a portion of the grant funding covers unmet oral health needs for the HIV/AIDS patients of the Inland Empire,” said Dr. Eun-Hwi Euni Cho, D.D.S., Assistant Professor and Director of Educational Assessment at LLUSD. This is the 16th consecutive year that LLUSD has been selected to receive this funding, which supports clinical training, oral health services, quality improvement, and the development of innovative models of dental care.
07.03.2018	Last week, Rep. Pete Aguilar hosted Leonardo Bueno, a student at Rialto’s Wilmer Amina Carter High School and the winner of the 2018 Congressional Art Competition for California’s 31st District, at the US Capitol. The Congressional Art Competition is an annual contest in which one high school student from each Congressional District is selected to have their work displayed in the Capitol for a year. The competition is sponsored by Southwest Airlines, who covers airfare for the winning students from each district to attend a reception in Washington, DC. “Spending time in the Capitol with Leonardo was an honor,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “There are so many talented students in our region, and I’m proud to have this platform to show off some of that talent and have a piece of the Inland Empire on display here in our nation’s capital.” “It was an incredible experience to meet some of the other artists and to see hundreds of pieces of art displayed in the Capitol building. I’m proud that I had the chance to represent the Inland Empire in Washington last week, and that my work will be on display for visitors to the Capitol to see over the next year,” said Leonardo Bueno. As part of his trip to Washington, Leonardo attended a reception with the other art competition winners from throughout the country. His winning painting, “Artist in the Making,” will be on display in the Capitol building for the next year. Leonardo was announced as the 31st District’s winner of this year’s Congressional Art Competition at a reception hosted by Rep. Aguilar in San Bernardino in May. Arroyo Valley High School student Jamie Lopez was the runner-up for her piece, “To Think and To Dream” and Rialto High School student Hillary Wongkar came in third with “Learning to Trust.” The second and third place submissions will be on display in Rep. Aguilar’s San Bernardino office for the next year.
06.28.2018	Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 6157, the Department of Defense Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2019. Included in the bill was language to add an additional $2 million in funding for the Department of Defense Cyber Scholarship Program. The increase in funding, which was a direct result of Rep. Aguilar’s advocacy as a Member of the Appropriations Committee, will allow more students to participate in the cyber scholarship program. As a result of Rep. Aguilar’s efforts to fund the program last year, 40 students received cyber scholarships with offers of civilian employment within the Department of Defense upon completion of their degrees in the cyber field, including two students from California State University, San Bernardino (CSUSB). “The need for cyber security officials within the Department of Defense continues to grow, and we need to make sure that need is met with bright young talent,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “I’m proud that this scholarship has been used to help connect Inland Empire students with this resource, and hope that this increase in funding will result in even more students from our region finding success in this critically important field.” Dr. Tony Coulson, Director of the Cyber Security Center at CSUSB, commented, “This program is important, not only for the cyber security program at CSUSB, but for the nation as a whole. The students in this program are charged with protecting freedom and democracy in this country and to have the support of Rep. Aguilar shows his deep commitment to this university and region as well as recognizing the importance of cyber security for the United States.” The funding secured by Rep. Aguilar, in addition to the $10 million secured by another Member through an amendment offered on the House floor, brings the program’s total funding for the upcoming fiscal year to $17 million. After successfully passing an amendment to restart the scholarship program in 2017, Rep. Aguilar has continued to advocate to expand the program to benefit more students and continue to grow the United States’ cyber security workforce. The OPPORTUNITY Act, Rep. Aguilar’s legislation to connect students at Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs), Hispanic Serving Institutions (HSIs), and Asian American and Native American Pacific Islander Serving Institutions (AANAPISIs) with the Department of Defense Cyber Scholarship Program has now passed the House and the Senate.
06.27.2018	Rep. Pete Aguilar (D-San Bernardino) recently introduced H.R. 6126, the Preventing Radical Extremists’ Violent Endeavors Now and Tomorrow (PREVENT) Act of 2018, a bill to help local law enforcement agencies identify, prevent and respond to potential domestic terror incidents. The bill would require the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to provide experts in law enforcement, psychology and social work to state and local governments for the purpose of mitigating the threats of domestic terror and homegrown violent extremism. “Our community knows all too well the devastation that an act of domestic terror can cause,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “After the attack on the Inland Regional Center, it became clear that we need to codify the relationship between our local law enforcement agencies and their federal counterparts. I’m proud to introduce this bill to help ensure that the resources of the United States Government are effectively distributed to prevent another unspeakable tragedy like the one we suffered in San Bernardino.” “The City of San Bernardino unfortunately knows the huge impact that terroristic events can have on communities. Although it is never something any community should have to experience, it is a reality that we cannot allow ourselves to ignore. With that, the San Bernardino Police Department very much appreciates any assistance made available by our State and Federal partners. This type of education has the ability to better prepare law enforcement personnel and community members alike should a terrorism related incident occur and to take any and all measures to prevent it before it has the opportunity to take place,” said Chief Jarrod Burguan of the San Bernardino Police Department. Since an act of domestic terrorism took the lives of fourteen Inland Empire residents and left twenty-two injured in 2015, Rep. Aguilar has been a committed advocate for the victims of the attack and has worked to prevent future attacks in the United States. Last year, the REPORT Act, Rep. Aguilar’s bill to increase cooperation between federal law enforcement agencies and Congress in order to better prepare for and respond to future threats, passed the House of Representatives. The legislation is currently pending before the Senate.
06.25.2018	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar (D-San Bernardino) announced that the San Bernardino County Preschool Services Department will receive over $48 million from the US Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Head Start and Early Head Start Programs. The award of $48,821,894 will help fund early education programs for children from disadvantaged families throughout San Bernardino County. “Affordable early education programs are not only essential for our kids’ school readiness, but for families who are looking for low-cost options to ensure their children are receiving high quality education, nutrition and care at a young age. Head Start plays a major role in making sure that all students, no matter their economic background, have a chance to succeed. I’m proud to announce this investment from the federal government into the futures of Inland Empire families,” said Rep. Aguilar. “We are so pleased that the current administration has shown their bi-partisan support for early childhood education by providing additional funds to Head Start nationwide so that we can continue to provide high quality education, nutrition, and behavioral services to children 0 – 5, and educational and job services for their parents,” said Diana Alexander, Director of the San Bernardino County Preschool Services Department. The funding is the result of an annual renewal from a grant that Rep. Aguilar announced in 2015, but is a roughly $6 million increase from previous years. The additional funding stems from Rep. Aguilar’s successful efforts to increase funding levels for the Head Start program as a Member of the House Appropriations Committee. Rep. Aguilar is a longtime supporter of early education programs, and served as a Head Start Teacher’s Aide while attending the University of Redlands.
06.19.2018	Rep. Pete Aguilar cosponsored H.R. 6135, the Keep Families Together Act. The bill prohibits the separation of children from their parents by Department of Homeland Security (DHS) personnel except for in extreme cases in which a child welfare agency has deemed that the child’s safety is at risk. The bill would effectively end the Trump Administration’s policy of removing children from the custody of their parents at the southern border in addition to increasing child welfare training for Customs and Border Protection (CBP) agents and establishing a procedure for reuniting separated families. “Families, especially those fleeing unspeakable violence, should not be separated by our government, and the Trump Administration’s policy to rip children from the arms of their parents is immoral, cruel and a violation of basic human rights. It’s clear that the president is not willing to do the right thing, which is why my Democratic colleagues and I introduced a legislative solution to the moral crisis the president has created,” said Rep. Aguilar. The bill, which has over 190 cosponsors, is the companion legislation to a Senate bill introduced last week by Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA). Despite nearly unanimous support from Democrats in both the House and Senate, no Republicans had signed onto either bill as of June 19, 2018.
06.19.2018	Yesterday, the Senate passed H.R. 5515, the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2019. Included in the bill as an amendment was the OPPORTUNITY Act, Rep. Aguilar’s legislation to help students who attend Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs), Hispanic Serving Institutions (HSIs), and Asian American and Native American Pacific Islander Serving Institutions (AANAPISIs) access the Department of Defense Cyber Scholarship Program. The amendment, which aims to ensure that the Department of Defense is selecting cyber scholarship recipients from a diverse pool of applicants, was introduced in the Senate by Senator Mark Warner (D-VA) after it passed the House last month. “Cyber security threats will continue to increase in the coming years, and we need to do all we can to ensure we’re prepared to meet them,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “We can’t afford to miss any talent when recruiting for our cyber defense forces, and the OPPORTUNITY Act ensures that students from traditionally overlooked communities have a chance to serve.” “The cyber scholarship amendment will help attract a diverse pool of candidates to lead the nation’s strategy in the field of cybersecurity,” said Sen. Warner. “With mounting demand across nearly every industry for trained cyber workers, it’s particularly important that we invest now in developing a diverse workforce. I applaud Rep. Pete Aguilar’s work to ensure the amendment was included in the House passed defense bill, and I am pleased that this critical provision will be included in the final Senate package.” A member of the Cybersecurity Caucus, Rep. Aguilar worked to reestablish the Department of Defense Cyber Scholarship Program, which provided cyber security scholarships to 40 students last year, including two at California State University, San Bernardino (CSUSB).
06.15.2018	This week, the office of Rep. Pete Aguilar (D-San Bernardino) hosted a panel discussion for Inland Empire small businesses to learn more about microloans available through the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA). The panel featured representatives from AmPac Tri-state CDC, Accion, the Inland Empire Small Business Development Center, the Inland Empire Women’s Business Center and the U.S. Small Business Administration, and provided insights into how local business owners can obtain and utilize microloans to help grow their businesses. “Small businesses are the foundation of our region’s economy, and we need to make sure they have every resource they need to grow and succeed,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “Tools like microloans are often under-utilized, but can make the difference in helping get a business off the ground. I’m happy that my office was able to connect members of our community with the information they need to navigate the microloan process and grow their businesses right here in the Inland Empire.” “Micro-loans, no matter the size of the business recipient, often represent getting the right amount of money at the right time to help a business meet the challenges of growing. This type of capital also helps them find the path forward to being bankable,” noted Vincent McCoy, who represented the Inland Empire Small Business Development Center on the panel. “I’ve been to many of these seminars over the years, but over the past 20 years they’ve really tapered down. I’m glad that Congressman Aguilar is promoting small businesses in the local community, because a lot of people need these microloans,” said Richard Hernandez, a business owner in San Bernardino. “There is so much opportunity for small business growth in the Inland Empire and Congressman Aguilar’s belief in and support of the small business community is greatly appreciated. So many small business owners do not know about resources available to help them, and continued sharing of information is how we will better spread the word about these programs,” said Michelle Skiljan, Executive Director of the Inland Empire Women’s Business Center. Microloans are provided by certain intermediary lenders with funding from the SBA. Smaller than standard business loans, microloans provide business owners with capital to help grow their businesses without incurring a high rate of debt.
06.14.2018	During the House Appropriations Committee markup of the Financial Services and General Government and Department of Defense Appropriations bills for Fiscal Year (FY) 2019, Rep. Pete Aguilar (D-San Bernardino) offered two amendments to address Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) recipients with a desire to serve the United States through military and public service. The first amendment would codify a February 8th statement from Secretary of Defense James Mattis, who pledged that DACA recipients who serve in the military would not be deported, despite President Trump’s decision to abruptly end the program in September. The second amendment, which passed in committee when it was introduced last year, would allow DACA recipients to be eligible to serve in the federal government. “DACA recipients have grown up in this country, and for many of them it’s the only home they’ve ever known,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “Those who are willing to risk their lives to defend this country deserve to know that they’ll be able to continue the lives they’ve built here without the fear of being forcibly removed. And those who choose to become public servants within the federal government should have the opportunity to give back to the country they love. These amendments were about allowing some of our best and brightest to enter public service and protecting those who serve in our country’s armed forces from deportation. I’m disappointed that my Republican colleagues allowed partisanship to get in the way of passing these commonsense measures.” A consistent advocate for immigrants who arrived in the United States as children, known as Dreamers, Rep. Aguilar is a cosponsor of the Dream Act of 2018. He is also the co-author of the bipartisan USA Act, legislation that pairs a pathway to citizenship for Dreamers with an emphasis on using smart technology to secure the southern border. Despite unanimous support from committee Democrats, both measures were voted down by Republicans.
05.24.2018	Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 5515, the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2019. The bill, which authorizes all discretionary defense spending for the upcoming fiscal year, included Rep. Pete Aguilar’s OPPORTUNITY Act of 2018, legislation to connect students at Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs), Hispanic Serving Institutions (HSIs), and Asian American and Native American Pacific Islander Serving Institutions (AANAPISIs) with the Department of Defense Cyber Scholarship Program. “We know that cyber warfare will continue to be one of the most serious threats to our national security, and that we need the best and brightest students enrolled in our national cyber defense programs. The provision that passed the House today will ensure that students who historically haven’t received these types of opportunities won’t be overlooked as we recruit the best cyber talent our universities have to offer,” said Rep. Aguilar. The OPPORTUNITY Act was added to the NDAA on Wednesday when the House passed Rep. Aguilar’s amendment unanimously. A strong advocate for increasing the United States’ cyber capabilities, Rep. Aguilar passed an amendment last year to revive the Department of Defense Cyber Scholarship Program. The scholarship program allowed 40 students, including two students from California State University, San Bernardino, to receive cyber scholarships and a guaranteed offer of employment with the Department of Defense upon graduation.
05.21.2018	Rep. Pete Aguilar introduced the Job Opportunity and Business Services (JOBS) Act, his bill to empower local Workforce Develop Boards (WDBs) to advertise their services to businesses in their areas. Restructured by the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (WIOA) of 2014, WDBs connect job seekers with potential employers and provide them with services such as interview training, career counseling, and mentoring. The JOBS Act would amend the WIOA to allow WDBs to use their federal funding to advertise these valuable services in their communities. “Workforce Development Boards have proven to be invaluable resources to connect people with jobs in regions like ours,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “I introduced this bill because we need to get the word out about the services these organizations provide. I’m hopeful that this legislation will give the San Bernardino County Workforce Development Board the tools they need to help more Inland Empire residents find jobs that pay well right here in our community.” Said Tony Myrell, Chairman of the San Bernardino County Workforce Development Board, “Ours is one of the fastest growing counties in the country, which puts an even greater premium on making sure we have a trained and qualified workforce to meet the needs of businesses. We’re also the largest geographic county in the U.S., which makes it that much harder to let everyone know the kinds of help we can provide. WIOA can be a game changer when it comes to making sure our workforce lines up with the needs of businesses, and the JOBS Act would help us get the word out in ways we currently can’t.” Said Phil Cothran, Vice Chairman of the San Bernardino County Workforce Development Board, “With the help of WIOA, our workforce board is helping thousands of job seekers every year get the training they need to be competitive in today’s economy. But we’re handcuffed when it comes to spreading the word about the kinds of programs WIOA supports. If we’re truly going to serve the community – in our case, one that covers more than 20,000 square miles – we need the kind of flexibility the JOBS Act provides.” Rep. Aguilar is committed to rebuilding the Inland Empire economy through policies that empower small businesses and help San Bernardino County residents find good-paying jobs. This legislation is the result of input from local business owners who participated in Rep. Aguilar’s Jobs Roundtable Tour of San Bernardino County.
05.17.2018	Rep. Pete Aguilar signed a discharge petition to force a vote on Rep. Jeff Denham’s bipartisan “Queen of the Hill” rule to allow Members of the House to debate and vote on four competing legislative solutions for Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) recipients. Included in the package of four bills is the USA Act, the bill Rep. Aguilar introduced with Republican Rep. Will Hurd to provide a legal path to citizenship for immigrants who were brought to the United States as children, known as Dreamers, as well as make commonsense improvements to border security. “The fact is that despite claiming he wants to solve this problem created by President Trump, Speaker Ryan has refused to let the House work its will and vote on a solution. There are hundreds of thousands of Dreamers throughout the country who have no idea what their futures hold, and that’s unacceptable. Members on both sides of the aisle are tired of inaction and empty promises, and this discharge petition is about stepping up to do what our constituents sent us here to do— govern,” said Rep. Aguilar. The Denham rule allows a debate and floor vote on Rep. Goodlatte’s Securing America’s Future Act, the clean Dream Act, a bill offered by Speaker Ryan, and the bipartisan USA Act introduced by Reps. Aguilar and Hurd. In order to force a vote on the Denham rule, 218 Members of the House will need to sign the discharge petition. The number of signatures is updated in real time here.
05.10.2018	Rep. Pete Aguilar introduced the Offering Promising Persons Occupations Relevant To Upholding National Interests For Years (OPPORTUNITY) Act of 2018, a bill to help students attending Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs), Hispanic Serving Institutions (HSIs), and Asian American and Native American Pacific Islander Serving Institutions (AANAPISI) access the Department of Defense Cyber Scholarship Program. “Cyber warfare is one of the most serious threats to America’s national defense, and we need to do all we can to ensure that we have the most sophisticated cybersecurity capabilities anywhere in the world,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “By having the Department of Defense consider a diverse range of students for their cyber scholarship program, we can ensure that talent from these universities will make our cybersecurity forces stronger while providing an opportunity for students who have been historically overlooked by these types of programs.” Rep. Aguilar has been a champion of the Department of Defense Cyber Scholarship program, and was able to help restart the program after years of lapsed funding by passing an amendment to the Department of Defense Appropriations Act of 2017. As a result of these efforts, 40 students across the country received cyber scholarships and guaranteed employment with the Department of Defense upon graduation, including two students from California State University, San Bernardino.
05.04.2018	Last night, Rep. Pete Aguilar held an awards ceremony at the San Bernardino County Museum to announce the 31st Congressional District’s winner of the 2018 Congressional Art Competition, a nationwide competition that allows high school students to compete for a chance to have their original artwork displayed in the United States Capitol Building for one year. Rep. Aguilar joined a panel of judges in selecting “Artist in the Making,” a painting by Wilmer Amina Carter High School student Leonardo Bueno, as this year’s winner. In addition to having his painting displayed in the Capitol for the next year, Leonardo will receive free airfare to Washington, DC courtesy of Southwest Airlines to see his artwork and meet with winners from the other Congressional districts. “Every student who entered this year’s competition displayed an extraordinary amount of talent and creativity, and I know the judges had a hard time making the decision this year,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “This competition really shows how important art is as a creative outlet for our kids and I’m so proud to be able to show off the work of an Inland Empire student in the Capitol.” Arroyo Valley High School student Jamie Lopez came in second place for her piece, “To Think and To Dream” and Rialto High School student Hillary Wongkar came in third place with “Learning to Trust.” Both the second and third place submissions will be displayed in Rep. Aguilar’s San Bernardino office for one year.
05.04.2018	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar announced that two nonprofit housing assistance programs in San Bernardino County have received a total of $635,000 in grant funding from Neighborworks America, a congressionally-chartered nonprofit dedicated to providing affordable housing options for families throughout the country. As a result of this grant funding, Neighborhood Housing Services of the Inland Empire, Inc. (NHSIE) received an award of $330,000 and Neighborhood Partnership Housing Services (NPHS) received $305,000. Rep. Aguilar is a member of the House Appropriations Committee, where he serves on the Subcommittee for Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies, he has been a consistent advocate in favor of funding for affordable-housing programs. “To continue rebuilding the Inland Empire’s economy, we have to make sure that a wide range of affordable housing options exist in our communities,” said Rep. Aguilar. “I’m grateful for the hard work of the NHSIE and the NPHS to make sure that families in our region can find good homes, and for all they’ve done to help revitalize our neighborhoods. As a member of the Appropriations Committee, I’ll continue fighting for funding that will help ensure more Inland Empire families can access affordable housing and achieve the American dream of homeownership.” Dawn Lee, Executive Director of the NHSIE, said, “Since 2013, NHSIE has helped over 850 families in the Inland Empire become sustainable homeowners by providing them with the tools needed to achieve the American Dream, even in the IE’s high-cost housing market. Homeownership is one of the most effective ways to build individual and community wealth, strengthen neighborhoods and contribute to economic prosperity. NeighborWorks America’s support allows us to make this possible.” “NPHS is extremely grateful for NeighborWorks America’s continued support,” stated Clemente Mojica, NPHS CEO. “This funding will allow NPHS to create innovative housing and economic solutions that advance the well-being of people, vitality of neighborhoods, creation of jobs, and sustainability of the environment. Thousands of families will benefit from this investment.”
05.03.2018	Yesterday, Rep. Pete Aguilar made the latest stop on his Job for a Day tour of the Inland Empire at Cajon High School in San Bernardino, where he taught three periods of a 12th Grade government class. His lesson plan covered the differences between the various levels of government, as well as his role as the Inland Empire’s representative in Congress. “There aren’t many jobs that are more important or more challenging than being a teacher, and I learned that firsthand today,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “Making sure that our kids are ready for the next stage of their lives after high school is a monumental responsibility, and I have so much appreciation for the people who do this each and every day. My Job for a Day tour is all about connecting with the hard-working people who drive the Inland Empire, and today I was lucky enough to spend time with the next generation too.” Rep. Aguilar decided to try out teaching for a day after it was the top result in a constituent survey earlier this year asking which jobs he should try in 2018. This is the eighth stop Rep. Aguilar has made on his Job for a Day tour, and the third this year. The tour gives him an opportunity to work alongside Inland Empire residents in a wide range of jobs so that he can better understand their concerns and be a better advocate for them in Congress.
05.02.2018	On Monday, Reps. Pete Aguilar (D-San Bernardino) and Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-Downey) visited the U.S.-Mexico border in San Diego to tour the San Ysidro and Otay Mesa Ports of Entry, and were shown the prototypes for the border wall proposed by President Trump. The visit was organized by Rep. Roybal-Allard, who serves as the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security on the House Appropriations Committee. “Spending time at the border makes it easy to see how connected our countries are, and how important immigrants are to Southern California’s economy and culture. I see the value in thoughtful infrastructure investments at the border, but we need to take a smart, comprehensive approach responsive to the realities on the ground. A coast-to-coast wall is not the solution. I’m hopeful that we can still find a bipartisan compromise that will allow us to gain operational control of the border while upholding our values as a nation of immigrants,” said Rep. Aguilar. “It was deeply informative to visit the border. As the top Democrat on House Homeland Security Appropriations, seeing the border firsthand gives me a stronger sense of the realities we face as we set DHS funding priorities for the years to come. As we work to address border security, we must ensure that any plan we enact is humane, effective, and fiscally responsible — and it is clear that a 3,000-mile wall is not the answer. I hope my colleagues across the aisle will work with us to develop a sensible and fact-based approach to securing our border while treating immigrants with compassion,” said Rep. Roybal-Allard. Both Reps. Aguilar and Roybal-Allard are fierce advocates on behalf of immigrant communities in Southern California and across the nation, and each has sponsored bipartisan legislation to offer a permanent legislative solution for Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) recipients. Rep. Aguilar is the co-author of the Uniting and Securing America (USA) Act with Rep. Will Hurd (R-TX) and Rep. Roybal-Allard introduced the Dream Act of 2018 with Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL).
04.23.2018	Rep. Pete Aguilar announced that 27 census tracts in the city of San Bernardino have been designated as Opportunity Zones by the US Department of the Treasury. The designations come after Rep. Aguilar sent a letter to Governor Jerry Brown asking him to nominate specific census tracts in San Bernardino to encourage new private investment to reinvigorate the City’s economy and create new job opportunities for residents. “San Bernardino has always been a resilient community and I believe that when provided with the proper resources, the city can continue to grow and revitalize its economy,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “I’m hopeful that these Opportunity Zone designations will go a long way toward supporting small businesses and creating good-paying jobs here in our region.” The area for the City of San Bernardino Opportunity Zone designation is Highland Avenue to the north, Mill Street to the south, H Street to the west, and Tippecanoe Avenue to the east. “Implementing an Opportunity Zone in the City of San Bernardino is another key step in the City’s renaissance,” said Mayor R. Carey Davis. “Incentivizing businesses to continue to invest and open their doors here is critical in the transformation of the Downtown region, which includes the Carousel Mall redevelopment and 5th Street Gateway Project. Opportunity Zones will expand the economic revitalization of the City, which already includes the successful redevelopment of the former Norton Airport that now hosts more than 11,500 jobs for Fortune 100 and 500 companies. We thank Congressman Aguilar for championing change in San Bernardino.” The Opportunity Zone program is designed to spur new investment in communities like San Bernardino where businesses have traditionally struggled to succeed. The Opportunity Zone program attracts investors by allowing them to delay taxes owed on profits they make after selling properties or assets. Instead of taxing investors after they make a profit, the Opportunity Zone program allows them to reinvest their profits in local communities. A total of 30 Opportunity Zones were designated in the 31st Congressional District, including one tract in Upland, one in Grand Terrace and one in Redlands. A map of the new Opportunity Zones in the 31st District is available here.
04.18.2018	Today, Reps. Pete Aguilar (D-CA), Jeff Denham (R-CA), Will Hurd (R-TX) and Lujan Grisham (D-NM) announced that their bipartisan “queen-of-the-hill” rule to allow a floor debate on four DACA solution measures now has the support of 50 Republicans and 190 Democrats for a total of 240 cosponsors, easily surpassing the 218 votes needed to pass the measure through the House. The rule would force a debate and floor vote on Rep. Goodlatte’s Securing America’s Future Act, the clean Dream Act, a bill offered by Speaker Ryan, and the bipartisan USA Act, a bill introduced by Reps. Aguilar, Denham, Hurd and Lujan Grisham earlier this year. Whichever proposal receives the most votes and meets the mandatory majority-vote threshold would be adopted. “It’s been over seven months since the president ended the DACA program, and Congress has yet to take any meaningful action. Despite multiple bipartisan attempts to solve this problem and create long-term certainty for Dreamers with bills like the USA Act, we still have not been allowed to take a vote on the House floor. I’m proud to support this rule because it would truly let the House work its will and give Dreamers the vote on a pathway to citizenship that they deserve,” said Rep. Aguilar. “It’s time that Congress does its job and moves forward with one unified, bipartisan strategy for our Dreamers,” said Rep. Denham. “We have the support for an open debate and a vote; no more excuses, no more delays.” “We cannot avoid action any longer. We must secure our border and create a permanent legislative fix for DACA-recipients. I am proud to continue my bipartisan work to advance the narrowly-focused USA Act through the Queen of the Hill Rule offered by Rep. Denham,” said U.S. Rep. Will Hurd who represents more U.S.-Mexico border than any other Member of Congress. “The support of so many Republicans and Democrats proves that we can solve these problems in a bipartisan way.” “I’m especially proud of this bipartisan “queen of the hill’ effort, which has the support of 240 Members of the House of Representatives – both Republicans and Democrats. The momentum behind this effort makes it unquestionably clear to Speaker Ryan that an overwhelming number of House Members want the opportunity to vote on a permanent legislative solution for Dreamers. The queen of the hill legislative push is in keeping with our commitment to protecting Dreamers and families, and to using every tool available to pass a bipartisan legislative solution that provides these young people with a path to citizenship. If Speaker Ryan supports this bipartisan effort, I believe that there is enough will and courage in Congress to take up this debate and do the right thing for the hundreds of thousands of young people who have worked to contribute to the only country they’ve ever known,” said Congressional Hispanic Caucus Chairwoman Michelle Lujan Grisham. "The American people want their leaders to lead on immigration reform," said Jeremy Robbins, Executive Director of New American Economy. "A deal to secure the border and protect Dreamers makes sense to both sides of the aisle, and we applaud Rep. Denham for taking the initiative and creating a path through the gridlock." Neil Bradley, Executive Vice President and Chief Policy Officer for the U.S. Chamber of Commerce said of the effort, “The Chamber supports the efforts of Representatives Denham, Hurd, Aguilar, Lujan Grisham, and many others to initiate a long-overdue immigration debate in the House of Representatives. We hope their work on House Resolution 774 leads to a serious debate on bipartisan legislation that addresses the plight of Dreamers and implements much needed improvements to our nation’s border security efforts.” A total of 185 advocacy organizations, including United We Dream, UnidosUS, and the Service Employees International Union (SEIU), signed a joint statement that said, in part, “We applaud the bipartisan effort led by Rep. Aguilar and Rep. Denham on the ‘Queen of the Hill’ resolution to fix the crisis President Trump created and to respect the will of the American people. Our country cannot wait while our family members, our neighbors, our students, our teachers, and our first responders who are American in all but paper live in fear of deportation. Immigrant youth in our communities should be able to fully contribute to the only country they've ever called home. Speaker Ryan, bring up the Dream Act for a vote now and respect the will of the People’s House.”
04.11.2018	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar announced that the Housing Authority of the County of San Bernardino (HACSB) received a Department of Housing and Urban Development Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing (HUD-VASH) award of $504,641. The HUD-VASH program allows HACSB to distribute vouchers that will allow homeless veterans throughout the region to pay for adequate housing. “Our veterans have made tremendous sacrifices for our country, and we owe it to them to make sure that they have the resources they need in civilian life,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “We need to do everything we can to help homeless veterans find adequate housing, and I’m happy to announce this grant funding which will help these heroes find good homes right here in the Inland Empire.” “A commitment has been made at the federal level and by our local board to end long-term, chronic veterans homelessness, and we are making unprecedented progress with this endeavor. We are honored to be able to serve our veterans through 61 more homes,” states Maria Razo, HACSB’s Executive Director. As a member of the House Appropriations Committee, Rep. Aguilar has been a strong advocate for programs to provide resources to veterans. In 2017, he voted in favor of the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2017, comprehensive funding legislation that made this award possible by appropriating $40 million for the HUD-VASH program to provide housing assistance to homeless veterans.
04.03.2018	Yesterday, Rep. Pete Aguilar made the latest stop on his “Job for a Day” Tour of the Inland Empire at the Amazon Fulfillment Center in San Bernardino, where he worked alongside Amazon employees to help pack and sort customer orders and prepare them for distribution. Amazon is one of the region’s largest employers and has over 10,000 employees in the Inland Empire across ten different sites, including roughly 3,500 full-time employees at the facility Rep. Aguilar visited yesterday. Aguilar remains committed to creating good-paying jobs throughout San Bernardino County, and founded the bipartisan E-Commerce Caucus to help facilitate discussions about the growing e-commerce industry in Congress. His “Job for a Day” tour began nearly a year ago when he worked as a server at Mitla Café in San Bernardino in April of 2017. Since then, he’s worked his way throughout the Inland Empire listening to working people to better understand their concerns and the ways federal policies affect them. This was the seventh stop on Rep. Aguilar’s tour, which will continue throughout 2018. Brian Whitehead of the San Bernardino Sun has the full story here.
03.22.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Representatives Jeff Denham (R-Turlock) and Pete Aguilar (D-San Bernardino) issued the following joint statement after voting against the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2018. “While there are many things in here that we support, we are united in our belief that it is an incomplete deal without a DACA solution. President Trump set a six-month deadline for Congress to address DACA, and Congress failed to meet that deadline on March 5. After hundreds of conversations with members on both sides of the aisle, we remain confident that we can pass a bipartisan bill to give these young people the certainty they deserve; we only need the chance to hold a vote. The House must take up debate on DACA bills in front of the American public. The Denham rule was introduced to bring to the floor the DACA proposals that are out there today — the clean Dream Act, the USA Act, Chairman Goodlatte’s Securing America’s Future Act, and a bill of Speaker Ryan’s choice — and consider them all under a queen-of-the-hill rule. With a growing number of Republican cosponsors on this rule, including over 40 in the first week, we have strong bipartisan support for this measure to facilitate an open debate on DACA in the House. We look forward to continuing the fight to provide a permanent solution for Dreamers and a fix to our broken immigration system when the House returns next month.”
03.13.2018	Rep. Pete Aguilar convened his small business advisory board for a roundtable discussion about some of the challenges facing local businesses in San Bernardino County and ways small businesses can benefit from federal programs. The meeting also afforded the Inland Empire’s small business community an opportunity to provide feedback on Rep. Aguilar’s legislative efforts to help grow small businesses and create jobs in the region. The advisory board was established after Rep. Aguilar released his Inland Empire Jobs Plan in the 114th Congress, and met for the first time in April of 2016. “Growing up in the Inland Empire, I’ve always been amazed by the resilience of our small businesses, which serve as the bedrock for our local economy,” said Aguilar. He continued, “From creating jobs to providing spaces for the community to come together, these business leaders are an integral part of what makes us proud to call the Inland Empire home.” Bud Weisbart, Vice President of AR Tech, commented that the conversation focused on “the driving force of our economy, which is basically the development of small businesses.” He added, “We dealt with issues that have to do with finance, that have to do with housing, have to do with the development of jobs in this area, all of which are critical.” This roundtable is the latest in Rep. Aguilar’s ongoing effort to help revitalize the Inland Empire economy by making federal resources available to small businesses in the community. In the 115th Congress, Rep. Aguilar has introduced multiple bills to help small businesses close the skills gap and create jobs in the Inland Empire, including bills to make it easier for military service members to qualify for Inland Empire jobs and to provide tax relief for businesses while they train new hires. The ADVANCE Act, his bill to allow active duty and reserve military personnel to more easily acquire commercial driver’s licenses, was signed into law by President Trump earlier this year.
02.26.2018	Rep. Pete Aguilar announced that his office will once again participate in the Congressional Art Competition, an annual showcase of art from high school students from across the country. The competition allows high school students in every congressional district to submit works of art to their local Congressional offices. The chosen winner in each district is then displayed in the US Capitol for a year. “The Congressional Art Competition is a great platform for Inland Empire students to show off their unique talents and express themselves through creativity,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “Seeing art from back home hanging in the Capitol building always brings a smile to my face, so I look forward to this competition every year.” To participate in the Congressional Art Competition, students must be in high school and live in California’s 31st Congressional District, a map of which is available here. Submissions may be up to 26 inches by 26 inches, 4 inches in depth and no more than 15 pounds, including the frame. Original paintings, drawings, collages and prints are all accepted. Students should also adhere to the “My Future” theme, with submissions focused on their visions for their own futures or the future of the Inland Empire region. The winning submission will be displayed in the United States Capitol for one year, along with the winning submissions from Congressional districts around the country. In addition, the winner will have the opportunity to travel to Washington D.C. for a reception with winners from other districts around the nation. Submissions must be delivered to Rep. Aguilar’s office at 685 East Carnegie Drive, Suite 100 in San Bernardino no later than 5:00PM on March 23rd, 2018.
02.09.2018	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar issued the following statement after voting against the budget agreement: “After months of debate and bipartisan compromise, Speaker Ryan has refused to make even the slightest concession to help protect hundreds of thousands of Dreamers — who have grown up in this country, started careers and families in this country, and have served in this country’s military — from deportation. The budget agreement that passed the House today contains many provisions that I support, but it is incomplete. I voted against this deal because I cannot support legislation that fails to address DACA without a commitment from the Speaker that the House will take up legislation to protect Dreamers, who are running out of time. There are bipartisan compromises on this issue that could pass both houses of Congress today, including the USA Act introduced by Rep. Hurd and myself. All we asked was that the Speaker show the same good faith afforded to my colleagues in the Senate by promising an open and fair process in the House to debate the bipartisan USA Act and any other bill that provides a legislative fix for Dreamers. We deserve a vote.”
02.05.2018	Rep. Pete Aguilar (D-CA) and Rep. Will Hurd (R-TX) praised Senators John McCain (R-AZ) and Christopher Coons (D-DE) for introducing the bipartisan Uniting and Securing America (USA) Act in the Senate. Like the House version, the Senate companion provides a permanent, legislative fix for DACA recipients and calls for smart border security measures to gain operational control of our borders by 2020. It is also a vehicle that will allow Congress to finally vote on long-term appropriations for our military and Department of Homeland Security. “Hundreds of thousands of young people are waiting for answers about their futures while Congress continues to talk rather than act. Now is the time to work across party lines to provide certainty to Dreamers,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “The USA Act is a targeted approach that can pass the House and Senate today. I’m grateful to Senators McCain and Coons for their leadership on this issue and for introducing the Senate companion to the USA Act.” “Our plan offers a permanent legislative solution for children who came here of no fault of their own – while achieving operational control of the border by 2020 – two things we all can agree on. I am pleased that Senators McCain and Coons are working together to introduce this legislation in the Senate so we can solve this increasingly urgent issue.” said Rep. Hurd whose district includes over 800 miles of the U.S.-Mexico border, more than any other Member of Congress. “Americans are tired of partisan gridlock. They deserve solutions. This is about Congress doing our job and it proves that Republicans and Democrats in both Chambers of Congress are willing to work together to unite and secure America.”
01.30.2018	Rep. Pete Aguilar issued the following statement in response to President Trump’s first State of the Union address: “Actions speak louder than words, and President Trump’s first year in office has been an assault on our nation’s values and America’s identity as a nation of immigrants. The president’s scripted remarks tonight do not make up for the fact that he tried to strip health care from millions of Americans, or worked to give tax cuts to wealthy corporations on the backs of working families. Despite countless opportunities to work in a bipartisan way to deliver results for the American people on issues like immigration, tax reform and health care, the president has shown that he is more concerned with catering to fringe elements of his political party than delivering results for the American people. The president has a real opportunity to act on his calls for bipartisanship by supporting legislation like the USA Act, my bipartisan bill to protect Dreamers and make commonsense border security improvements. If President Trump decides to act on the calls for bipartisanship and progress that he made tonight, I remain willing to work with him to deliver results for Inland Empire families.”
01.24.2018	Rep. Pete Aguilar announced that the San Manuel Band of Mission Indians will receive an Economic Development Administration (EDA) grant of $2.9 million for roadway improvements in Highland. The grant, in part, provides for the extension of existing roadway as well as improvements to nearby streets as part of the Third Street and Fifth Street Corridor Improvement Project, and will increase accessibility to the San Bernardino International Airport and spur development in surrounding commercial and industrial districts. According to an estimate from the EDA, the project will create nearly 400 new jobs and generate over $20 million in private investment. San Manuel is an active partner with other agencies from the San Bernardino region whose common objective is to develop the viability of the San Bernardino International Airport as a transportation and economic development anchor for the region. “I was proud to support the San Manuel Band of Mission Indians’ grant application because I believe that we must continue investing in the Inland Empire’s infrastructure and making the San Bernardino Airport a larger part of our local economy.” said Rep. Aguilar. “Continued partnership at the local, federal and tribal level is necessary to continue the economic growth we’ve seen over the past few years in our region, and I’m grateful to the San Manuel Band of Mission Indians for their efforts to improve our community outside of their reservation.” “San Manuel is thrilled to join other public partners to make this long term investment in the San Bernardino region’s economy,” said San Manuel Band of Mission Indians Chairwoman Lynn Valbuena. “Collectively by supporting increased transportation capacity we are preparing the San Bernardino valley for continued business growth, economic development and investment.” As part of the application process, Rep. Aguilar authored a letter of support for this request, urging the EDA to consider the request to improve critical infrastructure projects in the Inland Empire.
01.20.2018	Rep. Pete Aguilar issued the following statement following failure by Congressional Republicans to pass a government funding package: “Americans have every right to feel frustrated, upset and betrayed by their government today. Republicans in Washington, who control the House, the Senate and the White House, have refused to consider any of the bipartisan compromises that would have kept the government open, and have instead decided to play politics with our national security, the health care of millions of children and the futures of hundreds of thousands of Dreamers. The decision by Republican leadership to ignore calls for bipartisan solutions like the USA Act and allow a government shutdown will only hurt middle-class families in the Inland Empire and across the country. “Congress now has a responsibility to resolve this matter as quickly as possible, and the Republicans who control every lever of the federal government must consider one of the bipartisan compromises that will fully fund the Children’s Health Insurance Program and provide certainty to the hundreds of thousands of Dreamers who are at risk of deportation from the only home they’ve ever known. Working families deserve more than this from their government, and I will stay in Washington to fight on their behalf until Congress upholds its duty to fully fund the government.”
01.16.2018	Today, Representatives Will Hurd (TX-23), Pete Aguilar (CA-31) and Jeff Denham (CA-10) introduced the Uniting and Securing America (USA) Act, a bipartisan bill that protects DACA recipients from deportation while implementing new commonsense border security measures through enhanced technology, manpower and physical barriers, where necessary. The bill also addresses the immigration backlog that keeps families in limbo while advancing reforms in Central America to address the factors driving migration to the United States. “After multiple attempts to find a solution, it’s time to narrow our strategy. Our plan offers a permanent legislative solution for children who came here of no fault of their own – while achieving operational control of the border by 2020,” said Rep. Hurd whose district includes over 800 miles of the U.S.-Mexico border, more than any other Member of Congress. “Americans are tired of partisan gridlock. They deserve solutions. This is about Congress doing our job and it proves that R’s and D’s are willing to work together to unite and secure America.” “For too long, Congress has asked hundreds of thousands of young people to put their lives on hold while we play politics with their futures,” said Rep. Aguilar. “This bill represents a real bipartisan compromise that will provide a permanent legislative solution for Dreamers, and allow for a reasonable approach to securing our border. One of my top priorities is to ensure that these young people can continue the lives they’ve built here, and the USA Act will do just that.” “The government asked Dreamers to come out of the shadows, and it’s time for Congress to pass legislation that will allow them to truly move forward with their lives. The only way to accomplish this is through compromise that includes border security measures,” said Rep. Denham. “DACA recipients are American in every way possible except on paper. They have paid their fees, passed background checks and are working, pursuing college degrees, or serving in our military to contribute to the greatness of America.” “Democrats and Republicans stand united with the overwhelming majority of Americans who oppose deporting Dreamers. There is nothing political or partisan about protecting Dreamers, in fact there is agreement and bipartisanship because we all recognize the important contributions that these young people are making to our communities and our country. The USA Act is fair, bipartisan, targeted legislation that provides Dreamers with certainty, enacts common sense border security measures, and should be passed without delay,” said Rep. Michelle Lujan Grisham (NM-01), Chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. “With the March deadline quickly approaching, it is more critical than ever that Congress come together to provide a legal path forward for Dreamers. The USA Act is a reasonable, bipartisan solution to ensure these young people may remain in the only home they know, the United States,” said Rep. David G. Valadao (CA-21). “I would like to thank Representatives Hurd and Aguilar for introducing the Uniting and Securing America (USA) Act. This is an important step in reinstating the DACA program and ensuring that our borders are made more secure,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28). “As we face another government shutdown, it is clear that we are long overdue in providing a solution for hundreds of thousands of hardworking immigrants across the United States. As someone who lives on the border and understands the border, I am glad to see that the USA Act will also implement necessary commonsense border security measures that will keep our borders and citizens safe. I believe that this bipartisan bill is an important step in addressing concerns regarding immigration, border security, and DACA, and I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues in congress on these key issues.”
01.10.2018	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar announced that the ADVANCE Act, his bipartisan bill to help connect military service members with high-demand jobs in the Inland Empire, has been signed into law by President Trump. The bill was included in a larger package of legislation, known as the Jobs for Our Heroes Act, and signed into law by the president on January 8, 2018. “Members of our military dedicate their lives to the service of our nation, and we need to make sure that their service is rewarded with opportunities to succeed when they finish their military careers,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “These men and women represent the best among us, and integrating them into the civilian workforce will benefit communities like the Inland Empire. This new law will ensure that happens.” The ADVANCE Act changes requirements to make it easier for active duty military personnel, reservists and National Guardsmen to obtain commercial driver’s licenses, allowing them to transition more easily into the civilian workforce. The Jobs for Our Heroes Act was passed unanimously by the House of Representatives in December, 2017.
12.22.2017	Today, Rep. Aguilar issued a year-end report to constituents of California’s 31st Congressional District to review his work on behalf of Inland Empire families in 2017. “Throughout this year, and throughout my time in Congress, my top priority has been to deliver results for the Inland Empire. From making it easier for returning service members to get jobs in our community, to securing critical resources for local law enforcement to keep our residents safe, my focus throughout this year has been on ensuring that our community has a chance to thrive,” Aguilar said. He continued, “Whether it’s helping small businesses grow and create jobs, working to ensure everyone has access to affordable health care or fighting to protect Dreamers and prevent families from being torn apart, I am committed to doing all I can to support Inland Empire families.” In 2017, Rep. Aguilar: Helped 938 residents resolve issues with federal agencies such as Social Security, Medicare and the VA. Helped return nearly $725,000 that was owed to residents by the federal government. Announced nearly $14 million in federal funding for the Inland Empire, including over $1 million in terrorism preparedness funding. Hosted the 3rd Inland Empire Jobs Fair, which resulted in over 60 Inland Empire residents getting hired. Hosted a community grants workshop to connect Inland Empire organizations with federal agencies to learn about federal grant opportunities. Hosted the 3rd Seniors Fair to help Inland Empire seniors find information on Medicare, Social Security or veterans benefits, as well as information on food programs and free health screenings. Hosted a Veterans Resource Fair to connect Inland Empire veterans with resources on health care, housing, employment and assistance with VA claims. Participated in 210 constituent meetings, tours and events. Hosted a total of 5 town hall meetings, including a Seniors Town Hall, an Immigration Town Hall and a Telephone Town Hall for nearly 10,000 constituents. Worked five different jobs as part of his “Job for a Day” tour of the Inland Empire. Founded the bipartisan E-Commerce Caucus, which provides a forum for Congress to discuss one of the Inland Empire’s largest industries. Introduced seven bills to: Ease the burden of student loan debt on recent graduates. Reduce the skills gap and connect Inland Empire employers and job seekers. Require the federal government to find the causes leading to domestic terror attacks to help prevent future attacks from happening. Provide local law enforcement with additional resources to prepare for and prevent mass shootings. Connect military service members with employment opportunities upon returning to civilian life. Hold Trump Administration officials accountable for the misuse of taxpayer funds. Honor the life and legacy of Stater Bros. Chairman Jack Brown. Passed five amendments to major legislation, including measures to increase cyber workforce development, provide additional funding to local law enforcement, and allow DACA recipients to pursue careers in the federal government. Passed the REPORT Act through the House, to require Homeland Security to submit a report on how to prevent future terrorist attacks using the lessons learned from domestic acts of terror that happen. Passed the ADVANCE Act through the House, to allow military service members to easily transition to civilian employment. The bill was passed by the Senate and is waiting for the president to sign it into law. Rep. Aguilar has represented California’s 31st Congressional District since 2015. He serves on the Appropriations Committee, is the Whip of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, and is an assistant whip for the House Democratic Caucus. The former Mayor of Redlands, Rep. Aguilar is committed to empowering working families across the Inland Empire.
12.21.2017	Today, the House of Representatives passed the Jobs for Our Heroes Act, a bipartisan package of legislation designed to help military service members transition to civilian life by making sure the skills they gain in military service can be converted into good jobs in the civilian workforce. Rep. Aguilar’s bill to help active duty service members, reservists and National Guardsmen obtain commercial driver’s licenses, the Active Duty Voluntary Acquisition of Necessary Credentials for Employment (ADVANCE) Act, was included in the package. The legislative package was passed by the Senate in September, and will now go to the president to be signed into law. Upon passage of the bill, Rep. Aguilar stated, “Members of our military should know that civilian life will hold opportunities to succeed, not uncertainty. I’m proud that Congress was able to come together in a bipartisan way to pass the ADVANCE Act, legislation that will not only help provide jobs for our service members, but will also add highly-skilled workers to a growing industry right here in the Inland Empire.” Earlier this week, Rep. Aguilar spoke on the House floor during debate on the Jobs for Our Heroes Act. His remarks can be viewed in full here.
12.19.2017	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar issued the following statement in response to the passage of the Conference Report for H.R. 1, Congressional Republicans’ attempt to provide a massive tax cut for corporations at the expense of middle-class families: “Instead of providing tax relief to middle-class families and small businesses like the ones here in the Inland Empire, this bill is specifically designed to give massive tax breaks to the wealthiest corporations and individuals in our country. In addition to adding a trillion dollars to the deficit, this bill will drive up health care costs and raise taxes for millions of working Americans. Tax reform should be about creating a level playing field where every American has a chance to find success, not lining the pockets of wealthy corporations on the backs of working people.” Rep. Aguilar has been an advocate for tax policies that incentivize job creation and growth, and earlier this year he introduced legislation to provide tax relief for businesses as they train new hires. Rep. Aguilar voted against the Conference Report for H.R. 1 after voting against the original version of the bill in November.
12.18.2017	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar issued the following statement calling on Congressional Republicans to allow for a vote on the Dream Act, bipartisan legislation that would establish a pathway to citizenship for thousands of young immigrants, known as Dreamers, who came to the United States as children: “Dreamers have earned their place here in the only country they’ve ever known as home, but by dismantling DACA, the president has put their futures at risk. By refusing to take action to protect Dreamers, Congress is allowing hundreds of thousands of young people to live in constant fear that the lives they’ve built here could suddenly be destroyed. Passing the Dream Act would simply codify what we already know to be true: that Dreamers are Americans. GOP leadership must allow us to vote on a clean Dream Act immediately, because these thousands of young people cannot wait any longer.” Rep. Aguilar serves as Whip of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, and has been vocally opposed to President Trump’s decision to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program. He is an original cosponsor of the bipartisan Dream Act of 2017.
12.14.2017	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar introduced the Providing Rational Options Toward the Elimination of Catastrophic Terrorism (PROTECT) Act, legislation that would increase coordination between the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and local law enforcement by creating prevention and response plans at the local level for active shooting and mass casualty incidents. The bill would require the Secretary of DHS to provide guidance to state and local agencies on how to create emergency action plans to prepare for mass shooting events and expand the availability of federal grants to prepare for and prevent active shooter events. “Too many times, we’ve seen communities devastated by mass shootings, including right here in San Bernardino,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “In all of these instances, we’ve seen heroic responses from law enforcement that have saved lives and prevented further tragedies. This bill empowers our local law enforcement agencies to enhance their responses. By strengthening the federal partnership, we can ensure that our law enforcement officers have the resources they need to save lives.” In response to the introduction of the PROTECT Act, Chief Jarrod Burguan of the San Bernardino Police Department commented, "Attacks in our local communities have become all too common. Preparation and training are key for local authorities to effectively respond to these threats when they occur and support from our Federal partners is of paramount importance. I support this bill and believe that it will strengthen our ability to better prepare and protect our communities." And San Bernardino County Sherriff John McMahon said, “Recent terror attacks have struck rural and urban cities alike in our nation. Looking ahead, planning for another tragedy in our communities is the responsibility of every one of us who cherishes our way of life. This bill will help us plan and practice our collective response to such incidents with the ultimate goal of saving lives.” Rep. Pete Aguilar represents the city of San Bernardino, which experienced a horrific terrorist attack in 2015 that took the lives of 14 people and injured 22 more. The PROTECT Act is the second piece of legislation Rep. Aguilar has introduced to help prevent future tragedies of this kind. Earlier this year, the REPORT Act, Rep. Aguilar’s bipartisan bill to help combat domestic terror passed the House of Representatives.
11.20.2017	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar announced that General Micro Systems (GMS), a Rancho Cucamonga-based technology company, was awarded a contract worth $88.6 million with the US Army. As a result of the contract, GMS will provide the Army with critical technology such as the new S402-LC/SW server and rugged display system. This technology, used to assist soldiers as they attempt to detect landmines and improvised explosive devices (IEDs), is designed to withstand extreme conditions and will help keep our troops safe while deployed in hostile areas. “General Micro Systems has been a staple in the Inland Empire for over 35 years, and has played a major role in supporting our military,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “I am proud to announce this contract, which will go a long way toward supporting jobs here in the Inland Empire while keeping our service members safe overseas.” "Technology that will keep America’s soldiers safe while hunting land mines was co-developed with the Army and designed and built by GMS right here in the Rancho Cucamonga area," said Ben Sharfi, CEO, General Micro Systems. "Older technology simply couldn’t process video images fast enough or clearly enough. It’s like the most realistic video game ever, one that needs the absolute latest, greatest computing technology—because lives depend upon it." Rep. Aguilar is committed to finding ways to ensure that the Inland Empire economy benefits from federal funding opportunities. Earlier this year, he announced that two students at California State University, San Bernardino (CSUSB) had received scholarships as part of the Department of Defense’s (DoD) Information Assurance Scholarship Program (IASP). The program was funded through an amendment Rep. Aguilar made to H.R. 1301, the Department of Defense Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year (FY) 2017 in order to help train Inland Empire students for 21st century jobs.
11.15.2017	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar (D-CA) and Rep. Brett Guthrie (R-KY) launched the Congressional E-Commerce Caucus. This bipartisan caucus aims to explore federal policy related to the E-Commerce industry and its impacts on the American economy. The caucus will focus on four policy areas: expanding internet access, investing in infrastructure, promoting job growth and connecting buyers to sellers. “E-Commerce businesses, from retailers to distributors, have become an integral part of the Inland Empire economy, with both corporate and individual sellers creating a competitive and accessible marketplace,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “With so many families in our region benefitting from the jobs created in the E-Commerce industry, I want to make sure that Congress is having discussions about how our policies impact this industry.” “I’m honored to join my colleague Rep. Pete Aguilar to chair the Congressional E-Commerce Caucus,” said Rep. Guthrie. “What better time to start this caucus as we approach Cyber Monday, when online shopping sales are projected to top $6.6 billion? As our retail economy rapidly digitizes, it is important for Congress to consider how federal policy relates to this growing sector – whether that is ensuring reliable internet connectivity, investing in infrastructure, or promoting job growth in this industry. I look forward to working with my colleagues in a bipartisan way to focus on growing our economy.” The E-Commerce Caucus held a launch event on November 15th that gave industry representatives the chance to meet with Rep. Aguilar and Rep. Guthrie, who will serve as co-chairs of the caucus. The co-chairs are hopeful that membership will continue to grow on a bipartisan basis.
11.13.2017	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar announced that 60 Inland Empire residents were able to find employment as a result of his San Bernardino Jobs Fair, which was held in August. The event featured employers from throughout San Bernardino County, and was attended by over 300 local job seekers. “I was thrilled to learn that this event led to so many members of our community finding employment,” said Aguilar. He continued, “One of my top priorities has always been looking out for middle class families in the Inland Empire, and I’m proud that this jobs fair has helped so many families find a reliable source of income.” Some attendees, like Shanta Skipper from Rialto, were able to get hired on the spot. “The Boys and Girls Club hired me right then and there. It’s been a really great place to work,” she said. Andrea from San Bernardino was happy to find part-time employment with Burlington Distribution Center. She commented, “There were so many options, so I knew I’d find something. I have kids, so this is exactly what I was looking for.” When asked if he had any advice for future job seekers, Ernie Llerena of San Bernardino said, “I would bring more resumes. There were so many employers that I wanted to apply to, so I would definitely be prepared for all the options.” Rep. Aguilar has now hosted three jobs fairs for Inland Empire residents, resulting in a total of 156 hires. His jobs fair series is part of a broader effort to help San Bernardino County residents find jobs. Earlier this year, Aguilar introduced the On-the-Job Training Tax Credit of 2017, a bill to help offset the costs of training new employees for local businesses, and his bill to help connect military service members with local transportation jobs passed the House of Representatives in June.
10.26.2017	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar announced that Inland Empire health agencies have received a total of $517,554 through the Access Increases in Mental Health and Substance Abuse Services (AIMS) grant program. The San Bernardino County Department of Public Health and Inland Behavioral Health Services each received an AIMS grant of $175,500, and the SAC Health System (SACHS) received an award of $166,554. The funding was made available through the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA), a division of the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), and will be used to fund treatment and prevention resources to combat opioid addiction. According to the Centers for Disease Control (CDC), opioids were responsible for more than half a million overdose deaths in America between 2000 and 2015. “The opioid crisis in our country has impacted millions of families, including many here in the Inland Empire,” said Aguilar. He continued, “I was relieved to see this funding come to our region, and I’m hopeful that it will result in prevention and treatment efforts that will help families overcome the devastation of addiction.” Dr. Christine Bierdrager-Salley of Inland Behavioral Health Services (IBHS) commented, “IBHS is pleased to be an awardee of the AIMS grant. This will enable IBHS to expand and enhance its existing behavioral health integration program and IT infrastructure, with a particular emphasis on the screening, prevention, awareness, and support with treatment options for opioid abuse in both our patient population and the local communities of San Bernardino and Banning.” Health Officer for the County of San Bernardino, Dr. Maxwell Ohikhuare, said, “San Bernardino County Department of Public Health is pleased to be a recipient of the AIMS grant by HRSA. This grant will supplement funding under the Health Center Program to expand mental health services and substance abuse services focusing on the integration of treatment, prevention, and awareness of opioid abuse into primary care at DPH’s federally qualified Health Center located in the High Desert and Valley Regions.” Nancy Young, President and CEO of the SAC Health System, expressed the dire need for this funding in the Inland Empire. “The opioid epidemic that is devastating our community - and our entire nation is heartbreaking. We are so pleased to have been awarded this special, specific funding to provide the highest quality care to assist those struggling with this addiction,” she said. Rep. Aguilar has been an advocate for legislation to combat the opioid crisis, and in 2016, he supported a package of bipartisan bills to help expand research into the epidemic. Earlier this year, Rep. Aguilar vocally opposed the American Health Care Act (AHCA), the Republican effort to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act. The bill would have severely limited access to addiction treatment services for many Americans by making drastic cuts to Medicaid and dropping the requirement that private health insurance plans cover addiction treatment, which is currently required by the Affordable Care Act.
10.17.2017	Yesterday, Rep. Pete Aguilar held a town hall meeting in Redlands to discuss issues affecting Inland Empire families. This town hall was the latest in a series of events designed to allow Rep. Aguilar to connect directly with members of the community. So far this year, Rep. Aguilar has held two constituent town halls, resource fairs for local veterans and seniors, and an Inland Empire jobs fair. Monday’s town hall was attended by over 200 Inland Empire residents and was moderated by Jessica Keating, editor of the Redlands Daily Facts. Over the course of two hours, Rep. Aguilar answered a wide range of constituent questions and provided information regarding the Inland Empire economy, health care, environmental issues, federal disaster relief efforts, and his efforts to gain support for the bipartisan Dream Act in the wake of President Trump’s decision to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program. The town hall was broadcast live on Rep. Aguilar’s Facebook page, and can be viewed in full here. Sandra Emerson with the Redlands Daily Facts has the full story.
10.10.2017	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar announced that Elf Zone, Inc., a Loma Linda based health care start-up, has received a Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) grant in the amount of $299,999 from the National Cancer Institute (NCI). The SBIR program allows small businesses to compete for federal funding, and is intended to spur innovation through research and development. The grant money will be used to develop an experimental therapy to treat a rare and deadly form of leukemia which disproportionately affects Hispanic children. “I’m proud to announce this well-deserved award, which will go toward developing a life-saving and groundbreaking cancer treatment,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “Our community is incredibly lucky to have institutions like Elf Zone and Loma Linda Children’s Hospital who are working hard to find a way to prevent, treat and cure this devastating disease.” Dr. Kimberly Payne, CEO of Elf Zone, commented, “We’re so grateful for this assistance, which will allow us to hopefully soon offer better treatment for children in our community with leukemia, especially those who are often disproportionally affected and may struggle to get the care they need.” SBIR grants are extremely competitive, and are administered by 12 federal agencies. In order to receive the award, Elf Zone, Inc. had to demonstrate that it met criteria such as encouraging participation of women in entrepreneurship and assisting federal research and development needs. As a member of the Appropriations Committee, Rep. Aguilar has been an effective advocate for cancer research funding through his support of funding for the National Institutes of Health and National Cancer Institute. In the 114th Congress, Rep. Aguilar voted in favor of H.R. 34, the 21st Century Cures Act, which provided funding for critical cancer research initiatives, including Vice President Joe Biden’s “Beau Biden Cancer Moonshot” initiative.
10.06.2017	This week, Rep. Pete Aguilar introduced H.R. 3974, the Justifiable and Efficient Transportation Substitutes (JETS) Act. This bill prohibits most cabinet officials from using taxpayer money for official travel on private planes until a system is developed to provide the necessary oversight and accountability for private air travel. The bill also includes a public disclosure provision, allowing the American public to track exactly how their tax dollars are being spent. The bill was introduced in the wake of revelations that Trump Administration officials have been regularly misusing taxpayer money to charter private flights, including for nonofficial business. “To think that a cabinet official would spend hundreds of thousands of dollars on private jets, and then stick taxpayers with the bill, is appalling,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “This bill is about demanding accountability from this administration. The president’s cabinet has made it clear that they intend to travel around the country by private jet, and we need a system that provides a check on this kind of reckless spending.” The JETS Act establishes a moratorium on the use of taxpayer funds for private jet travel by cabinet officials until the president issues guidelines for the use of private jets. The bill provides exclusions for national security officials such as the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of State and the Director of National Intelligence.
09.25.2017	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar, announced that the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) has awarded $437,487 to the Redlands Fire Department as part of the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program. The department will use the funds to purchase 64 new Self Contained Breathing Apparatuses (SCBA), enough to outfit the entire department and replace existing SCBA equipment that is over 15 years old. The funding will also cover training costs so that the department can repair and maintain the equipment internally. “I am glad to announce that the Redlands Fire Department will receive these funds, and am glad that they’ll be able to make much needed upgrades to critical safety equipment,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “Firefighters in our community put themselves in harm’s way in the service of others, and they deserve access to the best equipment. Redlands Fire has sent representatives to both of my last two grants training workshops, so this is a department that is serious about using federal resources to help provide services for our local community.” “We were really excited to receive this grant, and to be able to outfit the entire department with new equipment. We’ve been using critical safety equipment that’s 15 years old, so we’re appreciative to both DHS and Rep. Aguilar for helping to facilitate this process,” commented Firefighter and Paramedic Ryan Gallagher, the department’s Respiratory Protection Manager. “We are most fortunate to have been awarded this much-needed grant funding. With this grant we will be able to put our firefighters in state of the art protective equipment that will serve for the next decade,” said Jeff Frazier, Redlands Fire Chief. This grant announcement comes only days after Rep. Aguilar’s announcement that San Bernardino County Fire had received an AFG grant for over $300,000. Inland Empire fire departments recently had the opportunity to learn more about the federal grants process at Rep. Aguilar’s FEMA-AFG Grants Workshop in January.
09.22.2017	On Thursday, Rep. Pete Aguilar hosted a “Dreamers Demand Answers” event at San Bernardino Valley College. The event provided young immigrants and Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) recipients a chance to voice their concerns and ask questions following President Trump’s decision to end the DACA program. Rep. Aguilar also provided the group with an update on the Dream Act of 2017, a bipartisan bill which would establish a pathway to citizenship for Dreamers who meet certain requirements. Rep. Aguilar has been a vocal supporter of Dreamers, or young immigrants brought to the US as children, throughout his time in Congress. In July, his amendment to make DACA recipients eligible for federal employment passed in the Appropriations Committee before being stripped by Republican leadership, and he is currently working to rally support in Congress for the Dream Act of 2017. Earlier this month, Rep. Aguilar became a cosponsor of the Dream Act and called for a vote on the bill on the House floor. Alejandra Molina with the Press Enterprise has the story, which can be read in full here.
09.20.2017	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar announced that Knowledge and Education for Your Success, Inc. (KEYS), a nonprofit organization affiliated with the San Bernardino Housing Authority, received $625,325 in renewal funding for the fifth consecutive year from the Department of Veterans Affairs through the Supportive Services for Veteran Families (SSVF) Program. The program aims to provide services to low-income veterans and their families who are living in, or transitioning to, permanent housing. “The reality is that we as a nation haven’t done enough to take care of our veterans. This grant will go a long way toward making sure that veterans in our community have roofs over their heads,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “We’re lucky to have an organization like KEYS in our area that can help facilitate this process and make sure that these federal dollars are put to good use by taking care of local veterans.” "These dollars go a long way in serving homeless veterans. We have an amazing team of partners and together we are helping reduce the number of homeless veterans in our county. Through this funding, we’ll continue to take care of these men and women who proudly served our country,” states Sheronna Quinine, KEYS’ Acting Executive Director. KEYS staff identify the resource needs of each family, assist in accessing VA benefits, provide housing search assistance and act as a landlord liaison, advise families on their housing options and assist families with short- to medium-term case management support to stabilize them in their new home. Staff also connect veterans and families with other community resources, including: health care, financial planning, transportation, employment, legal assistance, child care, and daily living. Temporary financial assistance payments may also be utilized to help with expenses such as rent, utility fees, security deposits, moving costs, transportation and child care. Rep. Aguilar has been an advocate for increased funding for veterans programs since he was first elected to Congress. In June, his bill, the Active Duty Voluntary Acquisition of Necessary Credentials for Employment (ADVANCE) Act, passed the House by a vote of 409-0. The bill eliminates red tape to make it easier for active duty service members to acquire commercial driver’s licenses and find employment outside of the military.
09.18.2017	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar announced that the San Bernardino County Fire Protection District has been selected to receive a $304,348 grant from the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) as part of the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program. The grant will be used to purchase a mobile Class B fire simulator, allowing the department to provide critical training for firefighters throughout San Bernardino County. The simulator will replace an older stationary model at the Richard Sewell Regional Training Center in San Bernardino. “Inland Empire first responders have proven their heroism time and time again, and San Bernardino County Fire is no exception. These federal dollars will go toward training and equipment that will keep our community even safer,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “By acquiring a mobile fire simulator, the San Bernardino County Fire Department can ensure that firefighters throughout our community have access to lifesaving training.” “The AFG Program has afforded San Bernardino County Fire Protection District the opportunity to continue providing state-of-the-art training equipment to our firefighters, in turn providing our citizens with Premier Fire Services,” stated Fire Chief Mark Hartwig. “With a service area stretching over 19,000 square miles, the mobile simulator is an invaluable training tool.” The AFG is an annual program that has distributed $6.7 billion in grant funding to fire departments across the country since 2001 as part of the federal government’s disaster preparedness efforts. Since coming to office in 2015, Rep. Aguilar has been a steadfast supporter of grant programs such as the AFG that empower local agencies and allow communities like the Inland Empire to better prepare for emergencies. Last year, he hosted a grants workshop for fire departments in San Bernardino County to spread awareness about the AFG program, and in July he announced that the Colton Fire Department had received an AFG grant of over $275,000.
09.15.2017	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar made the following statement to commemorate the start of Hispanic Heritage Month, which is celebrated each year from the 15th of September until the 15th of October: “This year, as we celebrate Hispanic Heritage Month and are reminded of the many contributions Hispanic Americans have made to our country, we are also reminded that there is still work to be done. For generations, Hispanic Americans have played a crucial role in shaping the history, culture and political conscious of this nation, and this month reminds us that we must continue to work toward full equality. The reality is that we have a president who threatens to deport Dreamers, pushes a government shutdown to build a wall on our southern border and disparages immigrants at every turn. We must raise our voices to speak out on behalf of Latino families that could be torn apart by the actions of this administration.” As the Whip of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, Rep. Aguilar has been a vocal leader on issues affecting the Hispanic community, such as health care and immigration reform. He is also a cosponsor of the bipartisan Dream Act of 2017, legislation that would establish a pathway to citizenship for young immigrants who qualify for the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program
09.08.2017	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar and California State University, San Bernardino (CSUSB) announced that two students attending CSUSB have been selected to receive scholarships as part of the Department of Defense’s (DoD) Information Assurance Scholarship Program (IASP). The scholarships were made possible by Rep. Aguilar’s amendment to H.R. 1301, the Department of Defense Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year (FY) 2017, which was signed into law earlier this year and appropriated $5 million for the program, after years of DoD underfunding and attempts to phase out the program. “This scholarship program is about increasing our country’s cyber readiness while also training students for the jobs of the 21st century,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “Cal State San Bernardino has a first rate cyber program, and I’m proud that these scholarships are being used to elevate students from our community. Thanks to the IASP program, students from right here in the Inland Empire will be on the front lines of the cyberwarfare that’s defining our modern defense capabilities.” "This program is of utmost importance to recruit people to defend our nation and economy in cyber space. The fact that two students from CSUSB were selected from a large national pool is a great honor,” said Tony Coulson, a CSUSB professor of Information and Decision Sciences and director of the university’s Cyber Security Center. “I also commend Congressman Aguilar for working hard to restart such an important program for the benefit and security of the nation." The scholarships, awarded by the Department of Defense, will cover full tuition, a $30,000 annual stipend, a paid summer internship with a federal defense agency, and civilian employment with the Department of Defense upon graduation. Strengthening our cybersecurity capabilities is a top priority for Rep. Aguilar, who is a member of the House Cybersecurity Caucus. In addition to the $5 million he secured to restart the IASP, Rep. Aguilar has also passed legislation to establish a critical cyberwarriors pilot program within the US Army and Air Force.
09.07.2017	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar delivered a speech on the floor of the US House of Representatives in which he called on Congressional leadership to allow for a vote on H.R. 3440, the Dream Act of 2017, a bipartisan measure that would establish a pathway to citizenship for Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) recipients. In his remarks, Rep. Aguilar stated, “I am here today to call upon my colleagues to bring the Dream Act back to the floor for a vote. No policy riders, no packages, just a straight up or down vote.” He continued, “If there are members of this chamber who still believe that Dreamers should remain in the shadows, and that they should not have the chance to join our nation as citizens, then they should stand up and be counted.” Rep. Aguilar is a cosponsor of the Dream Act, and has been a vocal proponent of immigrants’ and Dreamers’ rights. His speech on the Dream Act can be viewed in full here.
09.05.2017	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar issued the following statement in response to President Donald Trump’s decision to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program: “The president’s decision today to turn his back on the thousands of Dreamers living in our country is nothing short of despicable. For many of these young people, the US is the only home they’ve ever known, and this decision by the president tells them that they are not welcome here. DACA recipients are a part of our communities- they are our teachers and classmates, our coworkers and peers, our neighbors and our friends. To turn our back on them now is absolutely wrong, and I will continue working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to find a real legislative solution to ensure that Dreamers can find success here in the United States.” Rep. Aguilar is a tireless advocate for immigrants’ rights, and has worked throughout his time in Congress to come up with bipartisan solutions for the country’s broken immigration system. Earlier this year, he introduced an amendment to the Financial Services and General Government Subcommittee appropriations bill to allow DACA recipients to be eligible for federal employment. Rep. Aguilar’s amendment passed unanimously by voice vote and was added to the Financial Services and General Government Subcommittee appropriations bill before being stripped out by Republican leadership.
09.05.2017	On Thursday, Rep. Pete Aguilar made the fifth stop of his ‘Job for a Day’ tour with the Inland Empire 66ers, where he took to the stands of their San Bernardino stadium to sell snacks to fans. Rep. Aguilar kicked off his tour in April and will continue visiting and working at businesses across California’s 31st district to learn more about the challenges facing working families in the community. “I’ve loved baseball my whole life and have always enjoyed coming to 66ers games with my family, so it’s nice to be on the other side and talk with stadium employees about their experiences here and how their work impacts their personal time with loved ones,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “This tour has taken me across our community to work different jobs and to meet and talk with people who bring very different experiences with them. I appreciate everyone who has spent time with me and shared their personal stories.” Rep. Aguilar’s previous visits have included serving customers at Mitla Café in San Bernardino, organizing donations at the Goodwill of Southern California in Rancho Cucamonga, bagging groceries at Gerrards Market in Redlands and sorting and processing recyclable materials at Burrtec’s West Valley Material Recovery Facility in Fontana. Rep. Aguilar’s Job for a Day tour gives him the opportunity to spend time with working people in the community and to bring their voices with him back to Washington. As a fourth generation Inland Empire resident, Rep. Aguilar remains committed to finding bipartisan solutions to grow the middle class and ensure economic stability across San Bernardino County.
08.28.2017	On Friday, Rep. Pete Aguilar held an Inland Empire Jobs Fair at the San Bernardino Boys & Girls Club, hosting over 300 hundred San Bernardino County residents looking for work and connecting them with 58 local employers and job training opportunities. This is the third jobs fair Rep. Aguilar has hosted since taking office in 2015. “To get our economy back on track and put Inland Empire residents back to work, we need local assistance as much as we need policy solutions. It’s important that we utilize available community resources to directly connect job seekers with skills training and local employers looking to hire,” said Rep. Aguilar. He added, “As our region continues to recover from the Great Recession, I’ll use every tool necessary to make sure our community members have the help they need to provide for their families.” Christina Avalos, Human Resources Recruiter for States Logistics Services, Inc., commented on the event, “Not only was it well attended, but the applicants we saw were of great quality, great caliber, and had such an eagerness to work.” She continued, “Because of this event, we were able to add six more people to our needs, which cut our need down by one-third, so we are very grateful.” “I think that the congressman is doing a really good job bringing this many vendors out to a jobs fair,” said Colton resident Stephen Hyman. He continued, “I’d like to thank Congressman Aguilar for organizing this event.” Rep. Aguilar has prioritized legislation to create good-paying jobs, support local businesses and invest in workforce skills training. During his first term in office, he introduced five bills to help kick-start the Inland Empire economy. Last month, he reintroduced the On-the-Job Training Tax Credit Act, a bill to help local employers expand their workforce and pay for training of new hires. Rep. Aguilar has helped over 100 residents find employment with the two previous jobs fairs he hosted in 2015 and 2016. Read more about Rep. Aguilar’s efforts to get the Inland Empire economy moving again here.
08.18.2017	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar hosted a Veterans Resource Fair at the Frank A. Gonzales Community Center in Colton. The event provided Inland Empire veterans with resources on health care, housing, employment and assistance with VA claims. “This event was about getting our veterans the help, care and resources they need and deserve,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “I’m glad that our veterans were able to connect with our local veteran service organizations, and I’m grateful that we had so many groups that participated. We can and must do more to help our heroes when they come home, and that responsibility starts right here in the Inland Empire.” Gary Lemos, a San Bernardino U.S. Marine Corps veteran, thanked the congressman for holding the event saying, “There were a lot of resources that I had no idea existed. I’ve been to a few before but I didn’t see as many resources as I did at this one. It was a really good, positive experience.” Rep. Aguilar is committed to helping veterans get the assistance and resources they need to live healthy and happy lives. Ahead of his resource fair, Rep. Aguilar invited veterans to share their experiences with the Loma Linda VA to identify ways to improve care, responsiveness and accountability in veteran health care. Additionally, earlier this year, Rep. Aguilar’s bill to help active-duty service members and reservists translate the skills the acquired in the military to jobs at home passed the House of Representatives. The bill provides active-duty members access to the same unique training and testing standards for a commercial driver’s license granted to veterans in the latest surface transportation bill. Rep. Aguilar’s 2017 Veterans Resource Fair is one of many constituent service events he’s holding this year. Just last month, he held a Senior Fair for over three hundred residents and next week he’ll host his third Jobs Fair. Rep. Aguilar’s office also holds regular Mobile Office Hours to assist community members who need help accessing federal agencies. Directly connecting Inland Empire families with the help and resources they need is one of Rep. Aguilar’s top priorities. In his first term of office, he helped nearly 900 constituents with problems they faced with federal programs like Social Security, Medicare and veterans benefits.
08.17.2017	Last week, Rep. Pete Aguilar continued his “Job For a Day” tour at Burrtec Waste Industries in Fontana, where he sorted and processed recyclable materials at Burrtec’s West Valley Material Recovery Facility. This was Rep. Aguilar’s fourth stop on his tour, which he kicked off in April at Mitla Café in San Bernardino. Rep. Aguilar’s tour is taking him across California’s 31st Congressional District, where he works different jobs throughout the Inland Empire to connect with residents and learn more about local businesses and the communities they serve. His previous visits include Mitla Café in San Bernardino, Goodwill Southern California in Rancho Cucamonga, and Gerrards Market in Redlands. Additionally, Rep. Aguilar highlighted his Jobs Fair, which will be held on Friday, August 25th at the San Bernardino Boys & Girls Club from 10:00am to 1:00pm. Job seekers interested in attending can rsvp here and businesses interested in participating should call Rep. Aguilar’s office at 909-890-4445. Russell Ingold with the Fontana Herald News has the story, which can be read in full here.
08.15.2017	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar issued the following statement, reaffirming his commitment to protect the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program on the 5th anniversary of its implementation. DACA has shielded over 700,000 young people, commonly referred to as Dreamers, from deportation. “DACA isn’t just a policy – it is a promise that if you work hard, go to school, pay taxes and follow the rules, you’ll have a fair shot at success in the only country you’ve ever known. For five years, this program has protected thousands of young people in the Inland Empire who were brought here as kids, through no fault of their own, and has allowed them to stay in the only place they have ever called home. As we work toward fixing our broken immigration system, we must protect those we promised a future to,” said Rep. Aguilar. He added, “Safeguarding DACA and keeping families together isn’t a conversation about politics; it’s a matter of heart.” Former President Barack Obama created the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program in 2012 through an executive order. DACA allows individuals who entered the United States as children without legal authorization to access temporary work permits and shields them from deportation unless an individual has a criminal record. Rep. Aguilar has been a steadfast supporter of DACA and an advocate for comprehensive immigration reform with a pathway to citizenship. Since taking office in 2015, Rep. Aguilar has established an Immigration Advisory Board, held a town hall and networking event for San Bernardino County Dreamers, and he recently passed an amendment that was added to an appropriations bill that would allow Dreamers to be eligible for federal employment.
08.09.2017	On Tuesday, Rep. Pete Aguilar made the fourth stop of his Inland Empire ‘Job for a Day’ tour at Burrtec Waste Industries in Fontana. Rep. Aguilar helped sort and process recyclable materials at Burrtec’s West Valley Material Recovery Facility. Rep. Aguilar kicked off his tour in April and will continue visiting and working at businesses across the Inland Empire to learn more about the challenges facing working families in the community. “I appreciate everyone at Burrtec for letting me join their team for the day,” said Rep Aguilar. He continued, “The work they do, day in and day out, is challenging and exhausting but is crucial to our community and the environment. Burrtec employees work hard to take care of the Inland Empire, and Congress needs to come together to ensure that hard-working people like them have the resources they need to succeed.” Rep. Aguilar’s Job for a Day tour gives him the opportunity to spend time with working people in the community and to bring their voices with him back to Washington. As a fourth generation Inland Empire resident, Rep. Aguilar remains committed to finding bipartisan solutions to grow the middle class and ensure economic stability across San Bernardino County.
08.08.2017	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar announced that he is hosting an Inland Empire Jobs Fair on Friday, August 25th from 10:00AM to 1:00PM at the San Bernardino Boys & Girls Club. The jobs fair will connect job seekers with Inland Empire employers looking to hire. This is Rep. Aguilar’s third jobs fair. His two previous jobs fairs have helped over one hundred San Bernardino County residents find full-time work. “The economic growth we’ve seen at the national level hasn’t translated to everyone in the San Bernardino community yet, so we need to go the extra mile to ensure we’re utilizing every tool and resource we have to put people back to work,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “Events like this are important because we can directly connect residents looking for work with businesses that are ready to hire. While policy solutions are necessary to confront our broader economic obstacles, community events like this are critical to helping us close the gaps in our local job market.” Getting the Inland Empire economy back on track and putting residents back to work has been one of Rep. Aguilar’s top priorities since taking office. In his first term, he introduced five different bills to spur economic growth and to help Inland Empire businesses expand. Just last month, Rep. Aguilar re-introduced his bill, the On-the-Job Training Tax Credit Act, which creates a temporary tax credit for employers to help pay for training new hires. The bill, which was endorsed by Inland Empire Economic Partnership’s Chief Economist Dr. John Husing, helps close the “skills gap” that exists between the labor force and the skills employers require. Rep. Aguilar’s 2017 Inland Empire Jobs Fair will be held at the San Bernardino Boys & Girls Club, which is located at 1180 W 9th Street. For more information about the event, please contact Rep. Aguilar’s office at (909)-890-4445 or visit his event posting here. WHAT: Inland Empire Jobs Fair hosted by Rep. Pete Aguilar WHEN: Friday, August 25th from 10:00AM to 1:00PM WHERE: San Bernardino Boys & Girls Club
08.02.2017	Last week, Rep. Pete Aguilar re-introduced his bill, the Grace Period Alleviation (GPA) Act, which helps recent graduates reduce and manage their federal student loan debt. Rep. Aguilar previously introduced the bill in the 114th Congress. “I know what it’s like to struggle to make ends meet to pay for college,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “Had it not been for federal student aid, I wouldn’t have been able to afford my college education. With student debt exceeding one trillion dollars in the United States, we need to do everything we can to ease the burden on families and students. Limiting a college education to only those who can afford it stands in contrast to our national ideals and priorities, and prevents us from helping people realize their full potential. Inland Empire students deserve a fair shot and that’s exactly what this bill helps us do.” “Congressman Aguilar has shown time and time again his ongoing commitment and support of college students and recent college graduates. We appreciate his efforts to make quality higher education affordable for all,” said Cal State San Bernardino President Tomás D. Morales. Angel Vasquez, a student at Cal State San Bernardino, expressed appreciation for Rep. Aguilar’s efforts to confront student loan debt, stating, “I worry about my student loans a lot. College affordability is a big concern in my family so I'm grateful that Rep. Aguilar is working hard to address this issue for students like me in our community.” The GPA Act makes two changes to the Stafford loan program, affecting Inland Empire students and many more across the country. First, the bill eliminates the interest payments during the grace period for students with Subsidized Stafford loans that were disbursed between 2012 and 2014. This cohort of borrowers, who qualified for these loans based on their financial need, are currently forced to pay interest that other Subsidized Stafford loan borrowers do not and this bill reverses that unfair policy. Second, the GPA Act gives students with both Subsidized and Unsubsidized Stafford loans the option to extend their six-month grace period to twelve months. Students with Unsubsidized Stafford loans would pay interest during the entire grace period, while students with Subsidized Stafford loans would only be required to pay interest during the optional, extended six-month grace period. This change gives borrowers the flexibility to postpone the student loan payment burden for a short time longer while they pursue career options, intern for work experience, or work to plan their next steps in life. Federal Stafford loans are available to students seeking financial aid, regardless of income or need. Unsubsidized Stafford loans have a six-month grace period before payments on the loan are due after graduation, during which time interest is accrued because they are not need-based. Subsidized Stafford loans, which are need-based, do not accrue interest during the six-month grace period. Other federal student loans, like the Perkins loan, have longer grace periods. In 2011, as a one-time fix, Congress imposed a policy that required students who took out Subsidized Stafford loans between 2012 and 2014 to pay interest during their grace periods to offset the lack of funding for Pell grants. Between July 1, 2012 and July 1, 2014, there were about 14 million undergraduate Subsidized Stafford loan recipients. There were over 31 million undergraduate Subsidized Stafford loans disbursed during this same period. Many students from the Classes of 2016 and 2017 with these loans have already entered the repayment period, and other graduates with these loans will join them over the next several years. By eliminating interest payments during the grace period for students with subsidized loans, allowing students to refinance their loans under certain circumstances and extending the loan repayment grace period, Rep. Aguilar’s efforts give graduates the assistance and flexibility they need to manage their loans and plan their next steps in life as they begin their careers. Last year, the Southern California News Group Editorial board praised the bill, calling it a “sensible easing of college debt load.” The editorial can be read online here.
07.31.2017	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar reflected on the first quarter of the 115th Congress, where he has served the people of California’s 31st Congressional District in the House of Representatives. “It’s my job to break through the gridlock in Washington and deliver for Inland Empire families,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “I’ll work with any Republican or Democrat as long as it means my community has a seat at the table. We have a lot of work to do to ensure San Bernardino County residents have the tools they need to find good-paying jobs, and have access to affordable health care and a quality education. I will continue working across the aisle to deliver those results.” Since January 3, 2017, Rep. Aguilar has: Passed a bipartisan bill to combat domestic terror. The Reporting Efficiently to Proper Officials in Response to Terrorism (REPORT) Act requires the government to produce a report following a terrorist attack in the U.S. to outline how to prevent future, similar attacks. The bill passed unanimously through the House of Representatives. Passed a bipartisan bill, the Active Duty Voluntary Acquisition of Necessary Credentials for Employment (ADVANCE) Act, which provides active-duty service members and reservists access to the same unique training and testing standards for a commercial driver’s license granted to veterans by the latest surface transportation bill. The bill passed the House by a vote of 409 to 0. Helped secure nearly $10 million in cybersecurity education funding for cybersecurity programs, including those that benefit California State University, San Bernardino students. Helped secure $1.3 million in Homeland Security funding for San Bernardino County to prepare for, prevent and respond to potential future terrorist attacks. Announced $70,000 in federal funds for the community to help North Park Elementary in San Bernardino recover from the horrific shooting that claimed the lives of teacher Karen Smith and her student Jonathan Martinez. Launched a cyberwarriors pilot program through the United States Army following the passage of legislation last year. Introduced legislation to honor Jack H. Brown and name a historic post office in San Bernardino after the Inland Empire businessman and philanthropist. Added two critical cybersecurity amendments to the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), the annual defense policy bill. The bill passed the House of Representatives and is awaiting action by the Senate. Passed a significant amendment to an appropriations bill in committee that would allow Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) recipients, commonly referred to as Dreamers, to be eligible for federal employment. Introduced the On-the-Job Training Tax Credit Act of 2017, which is endorsed by Inland Empire Economic Partnership’s Chief Economist Dr. John Husing. The bill would help local employers train and hire San Bernardino County job seekers. Added an amendment to the Commerce, Justice, Science and Related Agencies appropriations bill that passed out of committee. Rep. Aguilar’s amendment adds $10 million to be available to law enforcement agencies for reimbursements following domestic terrorist attacks in Fiscal Year (FY) 2018 and in the future. Hosted a senior fair to connect over 300 Inland Empire residents with important information on health care, housing, and food programs, and also assisted seniors struggling with federal programs and agencies including Social Security, Medicare and the VA. Hosted a college affordability workshop for Inland Empire students and their families looking for assistance with the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) process and paying for college. Announced a Veterans Resource Fair to help local veterans connect with assistance organizations, offering help with employment, health care, housing, and to also assist with Veterans Affairs (VA) claims. The fair will be held on August 18th in Colton. Hosted a health care roundtable with San Bernardino County health providers and patient advocacy organizations to discuss Republican efforts to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act and the effect on our region. Kicked off his “Job For A Day” Tour across the Inland Empire, where he works different jobs at local businesses throughout the community to connect with residents and learn more about local businesses and the communities they serve. Held a town hall with over 500 Inland Empire residents and a telephone town hall with nearly 10,000 constituents. Pete Aguilar represents California’s 31st Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Appropriations. He is the Whip of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus and is an Assistant Whip of the House Democratic Caucus.
07.28.2017	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar announced that the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) through the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has awarded the City of Colton Fire Department $276,515 in the form of an Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG). The AFG Program helps first responder agencies across the nation access the necessary training and equipment to prepare for and respond to fires and extraordinary emergencies. “Our region knows all too well the importance of emergency preparedness. I’m glad to see federal dollars come back to the Inland Empire to support our first responders and provide them with the tools they need to protect San Bernardino County residents,” said Rep. Aguilar. He added, “Bringing home federal funds to support our region is a significant part of my job and I’ll keep fighting to ensure we have access to the resources we need.” “This grant will be put to good use by replacing our current Self Contained Breathing Apparatuses that have reached their maximum life expectancy. This equipment will keep our men and women safe in the line of duty,” said Colton Fire Department Battalion Chief Con Cendejas. He continued, “We're grateful for the federal assistance for our community and hope to continue working with Rep. Aguilar to secure the support we need to serve Inland Empire families.” The Colton Fire Department participated in Rep. Aguilar’s FEMA-AFG Workshop for San Bernardino County fire departments in January 2016. The Congressman’s workshop brought together local fire department representatives and FEMA staff members to talk openly about federal grant assistance. One of Rep. Aguilar’s top priorities in Congress is to secure critical federal funds to help the Inland Empire community access the resources it needs to invest in local law enforcement and first responders, education, research, transportation and infrastructure, regional recovery efforts and more. In his first term in office, Rep. Aguilar announced over $75 million in grant funding for California’s 31st Congressional District.
07.25.2017	In a press conference this morning and on the House floor this afternoon, Rep. Pete Aguilar (D-San Bernardino) stood up to House Republican efforts to include $1.6 billion to fund President Donald Trump’s border wall between the United States and Mexico in a spending bill that is intended to support veterans, American troops and defense priorities for the fiscal year. The construction of a border wall was a campaign promise of then-candidate Trump, who said he would make Mexico pay for it. “The bill we’re talking about today should be about providing critical funds to keep our service members safe, take care of our veterans and to support necessary defense programs; it should not be about helping President Trump keep a campaign promise that has no grounding in reality,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “Rather than come to the table and work on meaningful, bipartisan and long-term solutions to fix our broken immigration system, House Republicans would rather give American families’ paychecks to President Trump so he can build his wall. We are here to do the people’s work. Building this wall doesn’t do the people’s work – it soothes the president’s ego at the expense of American families.” Rep. Aguilar participated in a press conference with Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer and members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) earlier this morning to urge his colleagues to oppose legislation that includes the dangerous policy rider that would force Inland Empire families to pay for a border wall with Mexico. Rep. Aguilar is the Whip of the CHC. He also serves on the House Appropriations Committee, the House committee tasked with appropriating funds and spending for the federal government. The press conference was streamed on Facebook Live and can be viewed in full on Rep. Aguilar’s Facebook page here. His remarks on the House floor can be viewed here.
07.24.2017	Yesterday, Rep. Pete Aguilar authored an op-ed for the San Bernardino Sun, discussing the critical need to improve health care services for veterans, and the common goal of both Democrats and Republicans to help veterans get the assistance they deserve and need to live healthy lives. Rep. Aguilar highlights his bipartisan efforts, as well as constituent service events to assist Inland Empire veterans, including his Veterans Resource Fair, which will be held at the Frank A. Gonzales Community Center on Friday, August 18th at 10:00am in Colton. The event will connect Inland Empire veterans with resources on health care, housing, employment and assistance with VA claims. For more information on Rep. Aguilar’s Veterans Resource Fair, please call 909-890-4445. Rep. Aguilar’s full editorial can be read online at the San Bernardino Sun, Redlands Daily Facts and the Inland Valley Daily Bulletin.
07.20.2017	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar announced that he will hold a Veterans Resource Fair on Friday, August 18th from 10:00AM to 1:00PM at the Frank A. Gonzales Community Center in Colton. The event will provide veterans in California’s 31st Congressional District with information and resources on health care, housing, employment and assistance with VA claims. “When our veterans come home, they deserve the best care we can provide, and that starts here in our community,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “There are important resources, advocacy organizations and assistance programs in the Inland Empire that can help our veterans, but we need to do a better job connecting our veterans with those vital services. My resource fair will help bridge the gap and get veterans the support they need to live healthy lives.” Rep. Aguilar’s 2017 Veterans Resource Fair will be held at the Frank A. Gonzales Community Center, which is located at 670 Colton Avenue in Colton. Admission is free, no RSVP is required and lunch will be provided. For more information about the event, please contact Rep. Aguilar’s office at 909-890-4445. What: 2017 Veterans Resource Fair hosted by Rep. Pete Aguilar When: Friday, August 18th from 10:00AM to 1:00PM Where: Frank A. Gonzales Community Center 670 Colton Avenue Colton, CA 92324
07.19.2017	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar announced that California State University, San Bernardino (CSUSB) will receive $1.7 million in federal funding from the National Security Agency (NSA) for CSUSB’s NICE Challenge Project, which helps teach students cybersecurity skills while assessing their workforce readiness through virtualized real-world scenarios. “CSUSB is a leader in cybersecurity education and is helping to put the Inland Empire on the map,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “When we talk about what Dr. Coulson and Dr. Nestler are preparing our students for, we’re looking at economic and national security priorities for our country. By investing in these great opportunities, we’re training and preparing a workforce for jobs of the 21st century economy that will be at the forefront of our nation’s most critical defense programs.” Dr. Vincent Nestler, Assistant Director of the Cybersecurity Center, added, “The NICE Challenge Project provides students an opportunity to experience the workforce before entering it. This helps students identify potential gaps in their knowledge, skills and abilities and to address them.” The NICE Challenge Project is operated by CSUSB with funding from the NSA and the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST). The program creates realistic scenarios with virtual hands-on challenges to help teach and assess students’ cyber skills, and to also bring real workforce experiences to them. Cybersecurity is an important issue for Rep. Aguilar, and he has made it a priority to advocate for federal funds to support programs offered at CSUSB, which is a leader in cybersecurity education. Earlier this year, Rep. Aguilar secured a $5 million appropriation to restart a Department of Defense cybersecurity scholarship program that was previously offered at CSUSB but discontinued due to a lack in federal funding. Additionally, Rep. Aguilar’s cyberwarriors pilot program through the United States Army started implementation, and just last week, two cybersecurity amendments offered by the congressman were added to the annual National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for fiscal year 2018, which passed the House of Representatives. The NDAA outlines American defense program priorities for the upcoming fiscal year. Rep. Aguilar serves on the House Appropriations Committee and is a member of the Cybersecurity Caucus.
07.18.2017	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar announced that the San Bernardino City Unified School District (SBCUSD) has been awarded $69,651 from the Department of Education through the Project School Emergency Response to Violence (SERV) Grant Program. Rep. Aguilar authored a letter of support for the federal grant on behalf of the school district in June to help North Park Elementary recover from the horrific shooting that claimed the lives of Karen Smith and Jonathan Martinez, a teacher and eight-year-old student at the San Bernardino school. “The horrific and senseless act of violence that took the lives of Karen and Jonathan devastated our community, and none more so than their families and North Park Elementary, which includes more than 500 students and nearly 50 faculty. Sadly, our community is no stranger to tragedy, and in the aftermath of such extraordinary emergencies, it’s critical that we have the resources available to help those affected by the violence to recover and heal,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “These funds are welcomed and will be put to good use to help restore the learning environment and manage the ongoing healing process at North Park Elementary.” San Bernardino City Unified School District Superintendent Dr. Dale Marsden said, “We thank Congressman Pete Aguilar and our federal government for supporting the needs of the San Bernardino community. As we prepare for a new school year, the generous grant will help us restore a positive learning environment at North Park Elementary School.” The federal dollars will be used to reimburse administrative costs and services to support the recovery process at North Park Elementary School. Some of these reimbursements include funds for ongoing counseling services, substitute teachers for affected staff, and services from the immediate response to the shooting in April. Pete Aguilar represents California’s 31st Congressional District, including the City of San Bernardino.
07.17.2017	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar announced that the Department of Homeland Security awarded San Bernardino County $1.3 million in federal funds to be used to improve the region’s ability to prepare for, prevent and respond to potential terrorist attacks. The funding comes after more than 18 months of Rep. Aguilar advocating for the region to receive the funds and calling on the federal government to allocate additional federal dollars to the Inland Empire community, which is still recovering from the horrific terror attack at the Inland Regional Center on December 2, 2015 that killed 14 and seriously injured 22. The funding will be dispersed through the Program to Prepare Communities for Complex Coordinated Terrorist Attacks (CCTA). “When the attack in San Bernardino occurred, we became the site of the worst terrorist attack since 9/11. Had it not been for the heroism of our local law enforcement and first responders, we would have lost more innocent lives that day. Their incredible response is an example of how critical preparedness is in situations like this, and that’s why I’ve continuously fought to ensure that our community has the resources it needs to prevent, prepare for and respond to extraordinary emergencies,” said Rep. Aguilar. He added, “I’m glad to see the Department of Homeland Security select our community for this funding and I’ll keep working to ensure our federal agencies step up and help our region as we continue to recover.” San Bernardino County Board of Supervisors Chairman Robert Lovingood commented, “During the Dec. 2, 2015 attack, we found that the cross-training among law enforcement agencies was of tremendous value. This grant will help us continue that work by enhancing security and increasing our counter-terror efforts. And on behalf of the County, we appreciate Congressman Aguilar’s assistance in receiving this grant.” San Bernardino County Sheriff John McMahon said, “Here in San Bernardino, no one anticipated the unthinkable acts that were committed by the terrorists on December 2, 2015. I have always advocated preparedness for the unknown, and programs such as the CCTA will aid in our ability to collaborate with our partners in emergency services to better prepare and try to prevent future acts of terrorism.” Rep. Aguilar began advocating for the CCTA funds immediately after the terror attack in San Bernardino, working with the Appropriations Committee and taking to the House floor with fellow Inland Empire Rep. Ken Calvert (R-Corona) to request the federal dollars. Over the following months, Rep. Aguilar consistently spoke with federal officials at the Department of Homeland Security about the grant and advocated on behalf of San Bernardino County to ensure his community would receive the necessary funds. Since December 2015, Rep. Aguilar has worked tirelessly to bring federal dollars back to the community to help law enforcement offset the incredible costs incurred from their heroic response to the attack, and to help survivors and victims’ families get access to the assistance they need to recover. His efforts have helped the community to receive $1 million to help law enforcement and $4 million to support the short and long-term needs of the terror attack victims. Rep. Aguilar has and will continue to work with local, state and federal officials on both sides of the aisle to ensure San Bernardino County has the resources it needs to recover and move forward.
07.14.2017	Today, the House of Representatives passed the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for fiscal year 2018, which includes two significant cybersecurity amendments offered by Rep. Pete Aguilar. The first amendment authorizes the creation of a talent management pilot program to recruit, train and retain personnel in the cyber workforce, and the other amendment authorizes $10 million for a cyber scholarship program. The NDAA is the annual defense policy bill and outlines defense programs for the upcoming fiscal year. “Some of the greatest threats facing our nation are born in cyberspace. We need to make sure we’re constantly investing in the training and retention of a workforce that has the abilities and resources required to defend against attacks we face from our adversaries and rogue actors,” said Rep. Aguilar. He added, “Prioritizing cybersecurity is critical from a national security standpoint, but it also plays a significant role in the Inland Empire community, where we are training the cyberwarriors who will be on the front lines of the fight.” Rep. Aguilar is a member of the Cybersecurity Caucus and has worked to make investments in cybersecurity education and training. He has also been an effective advocate for federal funding to support cybersecurity programs offered at California State University, San Bernardino (CSUSB), and recently secured a $5 million appropriation to restart a program with the Department of Defense that was previously offered at CSUSB but discontinued due to a lack of federal funding. Rep. Aguilar served on the House Armed Services Committee in the 114th Congress. He now serves on the House Appropriations Committee. He voted in favor of the NDAA, which passed the House by a vote of 344 to 81.
07.14.2017	Last night in the Appropriations Committee, Rep. Pete Aguilar passed a critical amendment that was added to the Financial Services and General Government Subcommittee appropriations bill, which would allow Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) recipients, also called Dreamers, to be eligible for federal employment. “These young men and women identify as Americans, living in the only country they have ever called home. Denying Dreamers the opportunity to serve their community and country through public service stands in stark contrast to our nation’s core values,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “Expanding the pool of applicants for our federal workforce will ensure we can get the best and brightest applicants, whoever they may be. This amendment makes a commonsense change to give Dreamers the opportunities they deserve and our nation the workforce it needs.” “DACA recipients are going to school, preparing for careers, and contributing to their communities,” said Appropriations Ranking Member Nita Lowey. “Yet because of something they had no control over – their parents’ entry into the United States – they are deemed ineligible to serve their country through federal employment. I am extremely proud Rep. Aguilar’s amendment correcting this grievous wrong passed in the Appropriations Committee, and we will work together to defend the amendment as the process moves forward.” Currently, DACA recipients must use third-party organizations or fellowship programs to access federal internships or employment. Rep. Aguilar has been a fierce advocate for the immigrant community and is a stalwart supporter of comprehensive immigration reform with a pathway to citizenship. Rep. Aguilar’s amendment passed unanimously by voice vote and was added to the Financial Services and General Government Subcommittee appropriations bill, which will be considered by the full House of Representatives. Rep. Aguilar’s amendment can be read in full here.
07.12.2017	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar introduced the On-the-Job Training Tax Credit of 2017, which creates a temporary tax credit for employers to help pay for training new hires. The bill will help close the “skills gap” that exists between the labor force and the skills employers require. “The Inland Empire is brimming with thriving local businesses and a talented workforce, but we waste that potential on both ends if we cannot connect the two. I originally introduced this bill in 2015 after meeting with local business owners, veterans and community leaders who expressed frustration with the skills gap, and two years later, I hear the same concerns,” said Rep. Aguilar. He added, “Closing the skills gap is an important way to help get our local economy back on track and put San Bernardino County residents back to work.” Dr. John Husing, Chief Economist for the Inland Empire Economic Partnership commented, “Congressman Aguilar's proposed On-the-Job Training Tax Credit Act of 2017 is on point to a crucial aspect of modernizing today's workforce by helping to ensure that existing employees have the opportunity to increase their technological skills through training while on their jobs. Helping to offset the cost of this training is one important way in which the federal government can assist workers, companies and the productivity of the American economy. To ensure that the money is well spent, the idea that workers will be retained for at least two years makes great sense. As an economist specializing in workforce training in a region of modestly educated workers, this is an outstanding idea that should have bipartisan support.” The On-the-Job Training Tax Credit Act creates a temporary tax credit for employers to pay up to $5,000 for the training of their employees. Eligible businesses would be those with a workforce of 500 or less, and the credit would be applicable to a variety of training programs including: apprenticeship programs, industry-sponsored training programs, trainings offered by vocational or technical schools, community colleges, industrial or trade organizations, and labor unions. Additionally, employees that complete training programs supported by the tax credit must be retained by the business for at least two years as full-time employees. Rep. Aguilar modeled the bill after the successful employment program utilized by the San Bernardino County Workforce Development Board, which has helped nearly 500 people find work through its On-the-Job Training Program. Rep. Aguilar prioritizes policies that will put San Bernardino County residents back to work and help local businesses expand. He originally introduced the On-the-Job Training Tax Credit Act in May 2015 and remains committed to supporting bipartisan solutions to get the Inland Empire economy back on track.
07.11.2017	On Friday, Rep. Pete Aguilar held his third annual Senior Fair at Colton High School, hosting over three hundred Inland Empire residents seeking help with Medicare, Social Security or veterans benefits, as well as information on food programs and free health screenings. “Connecting San Bernardino County seniors with the tools they need to recover federal benefits they’ve earned or to help them access critical resources like medical screenings and food programs are important parts of my job,” said Rep. Aguilar. He added, “I’ve hosted this event for three years, and as long as local seniors ask for this forum and need assistance, I’ll keep fighting to get them the help they deserve.” Since taking office in 2015, Rep. Aguilar has been a fierce advocate for protecting and strengthening Social Security and Medicare so Inland Empire seniors can retire with dignity. Rep. Aguilar staunchly opposes Republican efforts to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act (ACA), which would strip tens of millions of Americans of coverage, and drive up out-of-pocket costs for seniors by as much as 25 percent. Rep. Aguilar has also supported legislation to expand Medicare benefits, improve the formula for calculating cost-of-living adjustments (COLA) that seniors rely on, and to protect seniors from identify theft. Read more about Rep. Aguilar’s commitment to San Bernardino County seniors here. Rep. Aguilar’s staff holds monthly mobile office hours for residents who need help accessing federal agencies. The full mobile office hours schedule can be viewed here.
07.10.2017	On Friday, Rep. Pete Aguilar continued his “Job For a Day” tour at Gerrards Market in Redlands where he bagged groceries for customers. This was Rep. Aguilar’s third stop on his tour, which he kicked off in April at Mitla Café in San Bernardino. Rep. Aguilar’s "Job For a Day" tour is taking him across California’s 31st Congressional District, where he works different jobs throughout the Inland Empire to connect with residents and learn more about local businesses and the communities they serve. Alejandra Molina with the Press-Enterprise has the full story, which can be read in full here.
07.06.2017	Rep. Pete Aguilar issued the following response to reports that California, along with 17 other states and the District of Columbia, filed a lawsuit against United States Department of Education Secretary Betsy DeVos over her delay of Obama-era regulations to provide financial relief for students affected by the closures of for-profit colleges like ITT Tech and Everest. The regulations were set to go into effect on July 1, 2017. “I’m glad to see state leaders take action on behalf of students across the country who are struggling with crippling student debt, including those in the Inland Empire,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “I called on Secretary DeVos to help San Bernardino County students who were taken advantage of and left without a clear path toward getting their degrees, but it’s only been met with silence from this administration. We must do more to improve college affordability in this country and I remain committed to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to see that through.” Rep. Aguilar has held four college affordability workshops since taking office in 2015, including two sessions that were held for students affected by the closures of Everest College and ITT Tech. In April of this year, Rep. Aguilar sent a letter to Secretary DeVos with members of the Inland Empire congressional delegation regarding the closure of Westech College, urging Secretary DeVos to expedite procedures for borrowers to be discharged of federal student loan debt. Neither Secretary DeVos, nor anyone from the Department of Education, responded to the letter. Rep. Aguilar has been a vocal proponent of reform to hold for-profit colleges accountable. He cosponsored the Bank on Students Emergency Loan Refinancing Act and the Protections and Regulations for Our Students (PRO) Act. Additionally, Rep. Aguilar introduced his own college affordability legislation, the Grace Period Alleviation (GPA) Act, which would extend students’ loan repayment grace periods, eliminate interest payments during grace periods for students with subsidized loans, and allow students to refinance their loans under certain circumstances. As a Pell Grant recipient, Rep. Aguilar understands the struggle that many Inland Empire students and families experience with college affordability. To learn more about Rep. Aguilar’s commitment to making higher education more affordable, visit his website here.
06.29.2017	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar announced the introduction of H.R. 2979, a bill to name the United States Post Office located at 390 West 5th Street in San Bernardino after Jack H. Brown. The post office would be designated the “Jack H. Brown Post Office Building” in honor of Jack H. Brown, the late Executive Chairman of the regional grocery chain Stater Bros. Markets and an impassioned Inland Empire philanthropist. “Jack H. Brown was a staple in the Inland Empire community, both as a business leader but also as an advocate for charitable causes. From supporting our kids through the founding of the San Bernardino Boys and Girls Club, to advocating for Inland Empire veterans, to donating tens of thousands of dollars to our local law enforcement in the aftermath of the Inland Regional Center terror attack, Jack always put our families first,” said Rep. Aguilar. He added, “The designation of this post office, which sits in the center of San Bernardino, will remind our residents every day of his service to our community.” Phillip J. Smith, Chairman of Stater Bros. Markets said, “We thank Congressman Aguilar for spearheading the effort for the Jack H. Brown Post Office in San Bernardino to memorialize Jack’s contributions to our region. Jack was a devoted husband, father and grandfather to his family, and an advocate for the Inland Empire community for over three decades. His efforts on behalf of San Bernardino County workers and families will be carried on by those who were fortunate to know him, and we hope that through this new dedication, his name will be with us and remembered for generations to come.” The entire California Congressional Delegation has cosponsored Congressman Aguilar’s bill. Jack H. Brown began his career with Stater Bros. Markets in 1981 and went on to serve as the President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman for over thirty years, during which Stater Bros. Markets became Southern California’s largest privately owned supermarket chain. Jack Brown served as a sailor in the Navy in the Pacific Fleet during the Vietnam War. He passed away in November 2016, leaving behind his wife Debbie, three daughters and seven grandchildren. Pete Aguilar represents California’s 31st Congressional District, which includes the city of San Bernardino.
06.28.2017	This week, Rep. Pete Aguilar authored an editorial for the Inland Empire Community News, reflecting on Immigrant Heritage Month and the contributions that generations of immigrants have made to the United States. In the editorial, Rep. Aguilar explains how immigrants have helped shape American history, making advances in the fields of science, technology, sports, and the arts. He pushes back on President Donald Trump’s anti-immigrant rhetoric and policies, and stresses the importance of standing with and supporting the immigrant community, which will continue to shape our future as it has our past. Read Rep. Aguilar’s full op-ed online here.
06.27.2017	H.R. 497, the Santa Ana River Wash Plan Land Exchange Act, passed the House of Representatives unanimously by a vote of 424 to 0. Rep. Pete Aguilar joined Rep. Paul Cook to reintroduce the land-use plan earlier this year, after originally introducing the bill together in the 114th Congress. H.R. 497 allows the transfer of land between the San Bernardino Valley Water Conservation District and the Bureau of Land Management (BLM). The land exchange takes place in a designated region within the Santa Ana Wash, at the junction of the Santa Ana River and Mill Creek in an area bordering the cities of Highland and Redlands. The land exchange will empower two mining companies that sit on land managed by BLM, Robertson’s Ready Mix and Cemex, to increase efficiency and produce aggregate that will support infrastructure projects and approximately $36 million in annual payroll. Additionally, the exchange will preserve 59 acres of land for the San Bernardino Valley Water Conservation District to use for conservation purposes to protect endangered plants and species, and to recharge water in more than 70 basins. Rep. Aguilar spoke on the House floor ahead of the vote, commending Rep. Cook for his action on this bill and to urge his colleagues to support the bill, stating, “The Santa Ana River Wash Plan Land Exchange Act moves this decades-long process forward, which will allow San Bernardino County to take advantage of critical economic and environmental benefits.” He concluded, “This bill is a smart, bipartisan plan that will help us support our local economy and protect the environment. It is a victory for all involved and I offer my complete support, and urge my colleagues to vote in favor of the Santa Ana River Wash Plan Land Exchange Act.” Rep. Paul Cook said, “This important legislation will complete the land swap at the center of the Santa Ana River Wash Plan. The Wash Plan will allow for the expansion of existing aggregate mining operations to support infrastructure, protect water recharge in the wash and manage critical habitat for threatened and endangered plants and animals. I’m grateful to Rep. Aguilar for co-sponsoring this bipartisan bill and thank my colleagues for passing the bill today.” H.R. 497 is the final step to complete the transfer of land between the San Bernardino Valley Water Conservation District and the BLM, a process that began in the 1980s as a proposal from the cities of Highland and Redlands. When he served on the Redlands City Council and later as the Mayor of Redlands, Rep. Aguilar worked on the project at the local level and witnessed the meetings, studies and committee reports that went in to the Wash Plan. Constituents and local stakeholders have also expressed overwhelming support for the exchange act, which includes letters of support from Robertson’s Ready Mix, Cemex, the County of San Bernardino, the City of Highland, the City of Redlands, the San Bernardino Valley Water District, a local chapter of the Habitat League and Inland Action. View Rep. Aguilar’s full remarks here.
06.26.2017	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar passed his second bill through the House of Representatives in six days. The Active Duty Voluntary Acquisition of Necessary Credentials for Employment (ADVANCE) Act passed by a vote of 409 to 0. The bipartisan bill provides active-duty service members, reservists and National Guardsmen access to the same unique testing standards for commercial driver’s licenses granted to veterans by the latest surface transportation bill, the Fixing America’s Surface Transportation (FAST) Act. “I introduced the ADVANCE Act to ensure that active-duty service members and reservists have access to the same benefits as veterans, helping to smooth the transition from military to civilian life. We owe it to our brave men and women to help them find work here at home. This bipartisan bill is a commonsense measure that will create opportunities for service members to find work in their communities by simplifying how they translate the driving skills they learned in the military to American jobs across the nation,” said Rep. Aguilar. The FAST Act allows veterans with qualifying military experience to be exempt from state knowledge tests when obtaining commercial driver’s licenses. The ADVANCE Act extends this exemption to active-duty service members, reservists and National Guardsmen. The ADVANCE Act has been endorsed by the American Trucking Associations (ATA), the Association of the United States Navy (AUSN) and The Retired Enlisted Association (TREA). Last week, Senators John Cornyn (R-TX) and Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) introduced a companion bill in the United States Senate. Rep. Aguilar’s floor remarks were streamed on Facebook Live and can be viewed in full here.
06.20.2017	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar’s bill, the Reporting Efficiently to Proper Officials in Response to Terrorism (REPORT) Act, passed the House of Representatives unanimously by a voice vote. The REPORT Act requires the Secretary of Homeland Security, in coordination with the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), United States Attorney General and the head of the National Counterterrorism Center, to submit a report to Congress after an act of terrorism occurs in the U.S. The goal is to generate a report with detailed analysis about how the attack occurred and how to prevent future assaults. There is currently no legal requirement to produce this type of report. Rep. Aguilar spoke on the House floor this afternoon and urged his colleagues to vote in favor of the REPORT Act, stating, “I introduced the REPORT Act a year after the San Bernardino terrorist attack. Our community has seen more than its fair share of gun violence, but this terrorist mass shooting claimed 14 lives, injured another 22 people and shook our community. In the days and weeks after, we pledged to do all we could to prevent another attack like this from ever happening again, and that is what this bill will help us do.” He continued, “The REPORT Act is a commonsense bill that will empower lawmakers with the facts they need to create meaningful laws to thwart future acts of terror. This bill is for the 14 killed and 22 injured in San Bernardino. It is for my community. It is also for every American city touched by these heinous acts of terrorism. We can and we must work together to protect our homeland, and I believe this is a smart, bipartisan step to achieve just that.” The REPORT Act has regional support from Inland Empire Reps. Calvert and Cook, as well as nine other Republican Members of Congress. Last month, local law enforcement leaders expressed support for the bill, including San Bernardino Police Chief Jarrod Burguan and San Bernardino County Sheriff John McMahon, when the bill was unanimously voted out of the Homeland Security Committee on May 3, 2017. Pete Aguilar represents the City of San Bernardino and authored the bill following the domestic act of terror in his community that killed 14 and wounded 22 on December 2, 2015 at the Inland Regional Center. The legislation was developed through feedback with victims’ families. Last year, Rep. Aguilar worked with Rep. Ken Calvert to help return $1 million in federal funds to help offset the costs incurred from local law enforcement’s heroic response to the terror attack. Rep. Aguilar also assisted in securing a $4 million federal grant from the Department of Justice to help victims’ families and survivors access health care and other resources to recover. Rep. Aguilar’s remarks on the House floor were streamed on Facebook Live and can be viewed in full here.
06.16.2017	This week, Rep. Pete Aguilar authored an op-ed for CNN and the San Bernardino Sun to discuss the important bipartisan nature of the annual Congressional Baseball Game and to underscore that the horrific act of violence targeting the Congressional Republican baseball team was a failed assault on our nation’s democracy. In the editorial, Rep. Aguilar also reflects on his experience as member of the Congressional Democratic baseball team, having participated in the annual exhibition game for the last two and a half years. The Congressional Baseball Game raises funds for local DC charities. This year, the event sold nearly 25,000 tickets and raised over $1 million. Rep. Aguilar’s full editorial can be read at CNN here and in this Sunday’s edition of the San Bernardino Sun, Redlands Daily Facts and the Press-Enterprise.
06.14.2017	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar issued the following statement in response to the shooting at the Congressional Republican baseball practice this morning: “I’m horrified by the attack at the Republican baseball practice this morning. The Congressional Baseball Game is a tradition that allows us to pause and put politics aside so we can come together to support a good cause—it represents the very best of who we are. My thoughts and prayers are with Whip Steve Scalise, Capitol Police and staff who were injured in this hateful and horrific act of violence.” Rep. Aguilar represents California’s 31st Congressional District and has been a member for the Congressional Democratic baseball team for three years.
06.09.2017	Last night, Rep. Pete Aguilar hosted a Dreamers Networking Mixer at Chaffey College with students who are Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) recipients, commonly referred to as Dreamers, to meet with members of Rep. Aguilar’s Immigration Advisory Board and local immigrant advocacy representatives to talk about their futures and opportunities in the Inland Empire. “For most Dreamers, the United States is the only home they have ever known, so it’s important that these young people understand that they have an advocate in Congress fighting for their educational and economic opportunities,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “I’m grateful that members of my Immigration Advisory Board and local representatives, including staff members from the Mexican and Guatemalan consulates, were able to join us and talk with the students about how they can make the best of their future here in the Inland Empire.” Rep. Aguilar is a fierce advocate for the immigrant community and has been a vocal critic of President Trump’s anti-immigrant and xenophobic policies. Rep. Aguilar is an ardent supporter of the DACA program and comprehensive immigration reform with a pathway to citizenship. Rep. Aguilar established his Immigration Advisory Board last year and regularly convenes the panel to discuss immigration policies and priorities for San Bernardino County.
06.08.2017	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar announced that he will hold his 2017 Senior Fair on Friday, July 7th from 9:00AM to 12:00PM in the Ken Hubbs Gymnasium at Colton High School. This is the third senior fair Rep. Aguilar has held since 2015, continuing a series that offers Inland Empire seniors access to free health screenings and food programs, and assistance with Social Security, Medicare and veterans benefits. “Ensuring our seniors have access to the quality of care that they need and deserve requires more than passing bills in Congress – it’s about directly connecting them with resources right here in our community,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “Over the past two years, my senior fairs have helped hundreds of Inland Empire residents resolve Medicare or Social Security claims, learn about important food programs and get access to critical free health screenings. I’m glad to host another senior fair and will continue to hold constituent service events like this in the future.” Rep. Aguilar’s 2017 Senior Fair will be held in the Ken Hubbs Gymnasium (on Rancho Avenue) at Colton High School, which is located at 777 W. Valley Boulevard in Colton. Admission is free, no RSVP is required and lunch will be provided. For more information about the event, please contact Rep. Aguilar’s office at 909-890-4445 or visit his event posting here. What: 2017 Senior Fair hosted by Rep. Pete Aguilar When: Friday, July 7th from 9:00AM to 12:00PM Where: Colton High School (Ken Hubbs Gymnasium on Rancho Avenue) 777 W. Valley Boulevard Colton, CA 92324
05.31.2017	On Tuesday, Rep. Pete Aguilar continued his ‘Job For A Day’ Tour of the Inland Empire at the Goodwill Southern California in Rancho Cucamonga, where he worked sorting donations. Rep. Aguilar kicked off his tour in San Bernardino last month at Mitla Café. The tour will take Rep. Aguilar across California’s 31st Congressional District, where he will work different jobs at businesses throughout the community to connect with residents and learn more about local businesses and the communities they serve. “I’m grateful to the Goodwill Southern California team for letting me join them to learn more about the work they do for our community,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “I’m familiar with the incredible training programs and education opportunities that Goodwill provides, but to see it up close and learn the personal stories of the workers really put things in perspective. The work that Goodwill does, both as an immediate resource for those in need and as an outlet to help workers learn new skills and get back on their feet, is important for families in our region and many more across the country.” Patrick McClenahan, Goodwill Southern California President and CEO stated, “We welcomed Congressman Aguilar’s visit to the Goodwill Southern California Rancho Cucamonga Retail Store as part of his Job For A Day program. We appreciate his strong support of Goodwill’s mission to Transform Lives Through The Power Of Work, providing education, job training, and work experience for those in our community with disabilities and disadvantages. We are impressed that the Congressman is taking the time to work and experience jobs up close in the community that he serves.” As a fourth-generation San Bernardino County resident, Rep. Aguilar understands the challenges that Inland Empire families face every day, and is committed to working with his colleagues in Congress to prioritize policies that will help grow the middle class. Rep. Aguilar will continue his Job For a Day Tour at a different local business in the coming weeks.
05.26.2017	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar released a survey inviting Inland Empire veterans to share their experiences at the Loma Linda VA in an effort to learn more about specific problems and how to improve care for San Bernardino County veterans. “Our veterans deserve the best care we can provide, so it’s important to me that we have an open dialogue,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “Whether we’re talking about wait times, accessibility or quality of care, it’s critical that we have as much information as possible about what our veterans are experiencing so we know how to work together to get our brave men and women the services they deserve and need to live healthy lives.” Improving care and services for veterans has been one of Rep. Aguilar’s top priorities since taking office in 2015. In addition to supporting legislation to improve accountability at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), Rep. Aguilar has also passed measures through Congress to put veterans back to work and has helped deliver federal funds to help combat veteran homelessness in San Bernardino County. Rep. Aguilar is a proud member of the Work for Warriors Caucus and regularly meets with his Veterans Advisory Board, which he most recently convened last month. The Loma Linda VA health care survey can be taken here. Constituents with any additional questions or concerns about veterans’ benefits should call Rep. Aguilar’s office at 909-890-4445.
05.24.2017	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar issued the following statement in response to the Congressional Budget Office’s (CBO) updated score of House Republicans’ health care bill, the American Health Care Act (AHCA), which passed the House of Representatives earlier this month after House Republicans forced a vote on the bill without a cost analysis. The AHCA repeals and replaces the Affordable Care Act (ACA), cuts Medicaid funding to states, raises health care costs for families, allows states to eliminate essential health benefits like coverage for pre-existing conditions and cuts taxes for millionaires and billionaires. “This new analysis confirms what we feared: this isn’t a health care bill at all. Trumpcare will strip tens of millions of Americans of health care coverage by eviscerating Medicaid. Inland Empire children and seniors will be forced to pay the price for Republicans’ political games. Americans with pre-existing conditions will be at the mercy of their health insurance companies as to whether they’ll have access to coverage. And middle-class families will be forced to foot the bill so millionaires and billionaires can get a tax break. This is shameful.” Rep. Aguilar opposes the AHCA and remains committed to finding solutions to make health care accessible and affordable for Inland Empire families and Americans across the country.
05.24.2017	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar announced that H.R. 2258, the Active Duty Voluntary Acquisition of Necessary Credentials for Employment (ADVANCE) Act, was voted out of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure. The ADVANCE Act provides active-duty service members and reservists access to the same unique training and testing standards for commercial drivers’ licenses granted to veterans by the latest surface transportation bill, the Fixing America’s Surface Transportation (FAST) Act. “This is a common-sense measure that will help our brave men and women find work here in the Inland Empire,” said Rep. Aguilar. He added, “While we hear every day that Washington is broken and compromised by partisan gridlock, we can clearly see that there are issues that both parties can get behind. This is about helping our heroes find job opportunities in our communities. I look forward to working with my colleagues in Congress to see this bill through.” The ADVANCE Act has been endorsed by the American Trucking Associations (ATA) and the Association of the United States Navy (AUSN). According to the ATA, there is an estimated 40,000 truck driver shortage nationally. Rep. Aguilar’s bill builds on his amendment that was passed as a part of the FAST Act, which helps veterans who drove specialized vehicles in the military to transition those skills to civilian jobs driving commercial vehicles. The FAST Act was signed into law by President Obama in 2015. Helping veterans and service members access the resources they need has been one of Rep. Aguilar’s top priorities since taking office in 2015. Pete Aguilar serves on the House Appropriations Committee and is a member of the Work for Warriors Caucus. The markup of the bill can be viewed in full here.
05.23.2017	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar issued the following statement in response to President Trump’s budget request: “What President Trump released is not a budget; it is a collection of cuts to every federal program that supports Inland Empire working families. San Bernardino County residents will pay the price for these draconian cuts, which target families who rely on Medicaid, funds for our already struggling schools, food assistance for children living in poverty and support for students who want a higher education. The Trump budget raises costs for seniors, college students and families who are already struggling with everyday living expenses, just so the president can prioritize massive tax breaks for the top one percent. As a member of the House Appropriations Committee, I understand the difficulty and diplomacy that is required to craft a spending bill that both supports our defense and military, while providing essential services to help middle-class families in my community and those like it around the nation. In fact, Congress passed a spending bill earlier this month that accomplishes these goals. The president’s budget request is a non-starter in Congress. We need to balance the budget and reduce our nation’s deficit but we cannot do this on the backs of middle-class families, which is exactly what the president’s budget would do.” Pete Aguilar represents California’s 31st Congressional District and is a member of the House Appropriations Committee.
05.16.2017	Last night, Rep. Pete Aguilar hosted an awards ceremony and reception to announce the winner of the 2017 Congressional Art Competition, a national contest in which high school artists from each congressional district in the country compete to have their work hung in the United States Capitol building for one year. Rep. Aguilar, along with a panel of judges, selected Rialto High School student Gemma Delgado’s submission, “The Start of Something Great” as this year’s winning piece out of nearly forty entries. The theme of this year’s contest was “My Wish” and focused on students’ wishes, which could include their personal aspirations or that for their home or family. “I was blown away by the passion and originality behind every entry,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “I look forward to this contest each year because it gives our kids a chance to express themselves creatively, while sharing their talent with our community. I’m so proud of all the hard work that went into each and every submission.” The judging panel was composed of local art experts and educators. Gemma’s inspiration for her work came from her grandparents, who have been married for over sixty years. As the first place winner, Gemma will receive free airfare to Washington, DC, courtesy of Southwest, where her artwork will be on display for one year in the United States Capitol. Charter Communications also awarded her $1,000 for hotel accommodations and expenses for her visit to Washington.
05.11.2017	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar announced that California State University, San Bernardino (CSUSB) will receive over three million dollars in federal funding for the university’s prestigious cybersecurity program through three different grant allocations. The first grant is from the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), which is run through the U.S. Department of Commerce. The NIST grant is for $281,444 and is the first installment of a three-year grant totaling $878,432. The second and third grants will be facilitated by the National Security Agency (NSA) for National Centers of Academic Excellence in cyberdefense, and will distribute over $2 million to CSUSB. “Investing in cybersecurity is about training the next generation for 21st century economy jobs that we can create and grow in the Inland Empire,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “Supporting programs like those offered at CSUSB allows us to have a highly skilled workforce to enhance our national security, while also putting San Bernardino on the map for education and innovation. These are investments in our national security and regional economy that we need to fight for.” Dr. Tony Coulson, Director of the Cyber Security Center at CSUSB commented, “CSUSB is committed to building a world-class cyber security workforce. Grants like these enable us to further this mission. I am proud to say that our graduates are protecting critical infrastructure, money supply and the nation as a whole.” The NIST grant will help create virtual environments and simulation of what it’s like to work in the cybersecurity workforce, from coding to network devices. This will be a significant aid to both academics and the cybersecurity workforce as it trains and hires professionals in the expanding cybersecurity field. The NSA grants will support investments in curriculum to increase capacity so CSUSB can take advantage of important resources to develop and hire more talent, and will also empower CSUSB to become a Cybersecurity National Resource Center. Cybersecurity is a critical issue for Rep. Aguilar. He recently secured $5 million to restart a cybersecurity scholarship program, affecting CSUSB, in a bill that passed the House of Representatives, Senate and was signed into law. And just a few weeks ago, Rep. Aguilar announced that his cyberwarriors pilot program through the US Army has begun implementation. Rep. Aguilar serves on the House Appropriations Committee and is a member of the Cybersecurity Caucus.
05.09.2017	On Sunday, Rep. Pete Aguilar authored an editorial for the San Bernardino Sun, reflecting on his town hall last month and stressing the importance of constituent events that give him the opportunity to speak personally with San Bernardino County residents about issues affecting them and their families. In the editorial, Rep. Aguilar also highlights his upcoming events, including Coffee with your Congressman and additional town halls. Rep. Aguilar’s full editorial can be read online here.
05.08.2017	On Saturday, Rep. Pete Aguilar hosted Spring Academy Day for Inland Empire students interested in attending U.S. Service Academies. The workshop and information session for students in California’s 31st Congressional district included presentations from Rep. Aguilar’s office and representatives from the United States Military Academy at West Point, United States Naval Academy, United States Coast Guard Academy, United States Air Force Academy and the United States Merchant Marine Academy. “I’m always so impressed by the students we meet at Spring Academy Day, who at such a young age already know the importance and honor in attending these prestigious academies and serving our nation,” said Rep. Aguilar. He added, “This fall we’ll be sending nine Inland Empire students to Service Academies across the nation, and we currently have over a dozen students already enrolled. It fills me with pride to see our students representing our region like this each and every day.” Saturday’s information session was Rep. Aguilar’s third Academy Day event. Students applying to U.S. Service Academies require nominations from their federal representatives to be considered. For those interested in attending a U.S. Service Academy, please visit https://aguilar.house.gov/services/military-academy-nominations to fill out an application or call 909-890-4445 with any additional questions or concerns.
05.04.2017	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar issued the following statement in response to Donald Trump’s “health care” bill, which will strip millions of Americans of their health care coverage. “Legislation that strips 24 million Americans of their coverage and discriminates against millions more who are living with pre-existing conditions is not a health care bill – for some, it is a death sentence,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “This bill will punish cancer survivors, kids with asthma and diabetes, and women. Women will be at the mercy of their insurance companies over whether or not they have coverage for maternity care. Trumpcare is a heartless policy. Donald Trump and House Republicans should be ashamed of themselves.” Trumpcare gives insurance companies the power to discriminate against Americans with pre-existing conditions by charging higher premiums and deductibles. It will also drive up out-of-pocket expenses and premiums for older Americans by as much as 25 percent, while giving a tax cut to millionaires and billionaires. Rep. Aguilar was a fierce proponent of protecting and strengthening the Affordable Care Act (ACA), which has helped more than 20 million Americans access affordable health care, including tens of thousands in California’s 31st Congressional District. Rep. Aguilar remains committed to fighting for affordable health care for Inland Empire families.
05.03.2017	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar announced that H.R. 625, the Reporting Efficiently to Proper Officials in Response to Terrorism (REPORT) Act, was voted out of the Homeland Security Committee. The REPORT Act requires the Secretary of Homeland Security to submit a report to Congress after an act of terrorism occurs in the U.S. The report must make recommendations for how to prevent a similar attack in the future and must include input from the United States Attorney General, the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and the head of the National Counterterrorism Center. Current law does not require any report to be produced after an act of domestic terrorism. “As we continue to rebuild from the terror attack in our community, we need to look ahead and work together to prevent this type of tragedy from happening in other neighborhoods across the nation,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “This bill encourages municipalities to share information with each other and learn for one another so we don’t see another San Bernardino, Boston or Orlando. The REPORT Act is about preparedness; by learning from each instance we can work together to find policy solutions to make our communities more secure and keep Americans safe.” Despite overwhelming gridlock in Washington, Rep. Aguilar is delivering a bill from the minority party with remarkable bipartisan backing. The REPORT Act has regional support from Inland Empire Reps. Calvert and Cook, as well as nine other Republican Members of Congress. The bill was unanimously voted out of the committee. Local law enforcement leaders have expressed support for the bill, including San Bernardino Police Chief Jarrod Burguan and San Bernardino County Sheriff John McMahon. Chief Burguan commented, “Unfortunately, we as Americans have become accustomed to hearing about attacks on our Homeland in recent years. It is critically important that we learn from these events and develop strategies to prevent future attacks and refine our response to those that occur. Improving only occurs with learning. As such, I am supportive of this bill that provides Congress a report and recommendations to improve our readiness and capabilities going forward.” Sheriff McMahon added, “I am in support of this common sense legislation that I believe will enhance law enforcement’s ability to better understand and prepare for future terrorist acts in our country.” Pete Aguilar represents the City of San Bernardino and authored the bill following the domestic act of terror in his community that killed 14 and wounded 22 on December 2, 2015 at the Inland Regional Center. The legislation was developed through feedback with victims’ families. Last year, Rep. Aguilar worked with Rep. Ken Calvert to help return $1 million in federal funds to help offset the costs incurred from local law enforcement’s heroic response to the terror attack. Rep. Aguilar also assisted in securing a $4 million federal grant from the Department of Justice to help victims’ families and survivors access health care and other resources to recover. The Homeland Security Committee markup of the REPORT Act can be viewed in full here.
05.01.2017	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar announced that his office will host Spring Academy Day, which is a workshop and information session for students in California’s 31st Congressional district who are interested in attending a U.S. Service Academy. Representatives from the United States Military Academy at West Point, United States Naval Academy, United States Coast Guard Academy, United States Air Force Academy and the United States Merchant Marine Academy will be in attendance. “This is a great opportunity for students interested in serving our nation to ask important questions about how they can best prepare to attend our prestigious Service Academies,” said Rep. Aguilar. He added, “Attending these academies and serving our country is the highest honor and I’m grateful that we continue to have Inland Empire students rising to the occasion to serve, making our region - and nation - incredibly proud.” What: Spring Academy Day When: Saturday, May 6th from 10:00AM to 11:30AM Where: Redlands East Valley High School Harry Blackstone Theater 3100 East Colton Avenue Redlands, CA 92374 Students or parents with any additional questions should contact Rep. Aguilar’s San Bernardino office at 909-890-4445. Constituents interested in attending the Spring Academy Day workshop and information session can RSVP here.
04.28.2017	Rep. Pete Aguilar has made investing in cybersecurity a top priority, to both enhance the United States’ defense programs and to develop jobs in the Inland Empire for the 21st century economy. Earlier this year, Rep. Aguilar announced that his cyberwarriors pilot program, which was included in legislation signed into law last year, has begun implementation by the United States Army. Additionally, Rep. Aguilar secured $5 million in a bill that passed the House of Representatives to restart a cybersecurity scholarship program affecting California State University, San Bernardino (CSUSB) students. Beau Yarbrough with the San Bernardino Sun highlighted Rep. Aguilar’s efforts to help CSUSB’s cybersecurity program and to invest in Inland Empire talent. The article can be read in full here.
04.27.2017	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar announced a new social media campaign, #DearPete, to highlight his focus on accessibility and responsiveness to constituents of California’s 31st Congressional District. Each week, Rep. Aguilar will share a letter he receives from a constituent, as well as his handwritten response. The posts will appear regularly on his social media platforms, including Instagram, Twitter and Facebook. “I’ve heard overwhelmingly from residents in our community, particularly since January, about a number of concerns that we’re dealing with at the federal level but that have a huge impact on Inland Empire families. Whether we’re talking about creating good-paying jobs, protecting the environment, improving our current health care system, or fighting for women’s reproductive rights, San Bernardino County residents are making their voices heard loud and clear, and I’m grateful that they’re reaching out to me to push these priorities on behalf of our community,” said Rep. Aguilar. He added, “I’m inspired by their letters, calls and social media posts, and really want to show them that I’m listening and fighting for them. I hope this encourages more residents to keep standing up for their families, friends and neighbors by contacting their elected officials.” To follow the #DearPete campaign, please visit Rep. Aguilar’s Instagram (@Rep.PeteAguilar) or Twitter accounts (@RepPeteAguilar), and his Facebook page (www.facebook.com/reppeteaguilar/). His first letter responds to a question that a constituent left at his town hall in San Bernardino, asking Rep. Aguilar how he’ll defend women’s reproductive freedom and support critical reproductive health care providers like Planned Parenthood. Pete Aguilar represents California’s 31st Congressional District. Before he was elected to Congress, Rep. Aguilar served as the Mayor of Redlands, where he resides with his wife Alisha and two children.
04.19.2017	Last night, Rep. Pete Aguilar held a town hall for constituents of California’s 31st Congressional district in San Bernardino. The event was moderated by former Press-Enterprise columnist Cassie MacDuff and hosted over 500 Inland Empire residents. Rep. Aguilar answered questions from constituents for two hours, covering a range of topics including President Trump’s ties to Russia, college affordability, investments in public education, gun violence, health care and more. Rep. Aguilar regularly holds community events to assist and hear from residents, such as telephone town halls, workshops, trainings and more. The town hall was streamed on Facebook Live and can be viewed in full here. Beau Yarbrough from the San Bernardino Sun covered the event, which can be read online here.
04.14.2017	This week, Rep. Pete Aguilar authored an editorial for the Inland Empire Community News, reflecting on the importance of constituent service events to help Inland Empire residents, such as workshops for students to assist with college affordability, trainings for small businesses looking to grow and expand, and fairs to provide resources for seniors and help job seekers in San Bernardino County. In the editorial, Rep. Aguilar highlights his upcoming town hall, which will take place on Tuesday, April 18th in San Bernardino at 6:30PM. Constituents from California’s 31st Congressional District will have the opportunity to ask him questions and discuss important issues affecting Inland Empire families. Constituents interested in attending the town hall can RSVP here. Rep. Aguilar’s full editorial can be read online here.
04.12.2017	On Sunday, Rep. Pete Aguilar kicked off his ‘Job For A Day’ Tour of the Inland Empire at Mitla Café in San Bernardino, where he worked as a server. Rep. Aguilar’s tour will take him across California’s 31st Congressional District, where he will work different jobs at businesses throughout the community to connect with residents and learn more about local businesses and the communities they serve. “I’ve been going to Mitla’s my entire life, so it meant a lot to spend my morning hearing personal stories about San Bernardino from the people I’ve formed relationships with through the years over coffee and eggs,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued “We had important conversations about staff’s day-to-day routines, and providing for their families while serving the San Bernardino community. I’m glad I was able to spend the morning with the Mitla Café family and thank them for sharing their stories with me.” As a fourth-generation San Bernardino County resident, Rep. Aguilar understands the challenges that Inland Empire families face every day, and is committed to working with his colleagues in Congress to prioritize policies that will help raise the middle class. Rep. Aguilar will continue his Job For a Day Tour at a different local business in the coming weeks.
04.10.2017	Rep. Pete Aguilar issued the following statement in response to the shooting at North Park Elementary School in San Bernardino: “I’m devastated by the shooting at North Park Elementary School in San Bernardino. This is like a punch to the gut for our community. My sincere and heartfelt thoughts and prayers go out to those affected by this heinous act. I’m in touch with the San Bernardino Police Department and am monitoring the situation as it unfolds. Once again, we’ve seen the bravery of our region’s first responders who are willing to put their lives on the line to end the violence and keep students safe. We will learn more in the coming hours and days about how today’s events came to pass. But there are some things that we know now: This is a tragedy for our community and there are children, teachers, staff and families who will be dealing with what happened today for a long time. As we have done before, we need to come together to support those affected and rededicate ourselves to ending gun violence in our community.” Congressman Pete Aguilar represents California’s 31st Congressional District, which includes the City of San Bernardino.
04.05.2017	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar testified before the Natural Resources Committee in support of H.R. 497, the Santa Ana River Wash Plan Land Exchange Act, which is a land-use plan that allows the transfer of land between the San Bernardino Valley Water Conservation District and the Bureau of Land Management. The land exchange takes place in a designated region within the Santa Ana Wash, at the junction of the Santa Ana River and Mill Creek. Rep. Aguilar originally introduced the bipartisan bill in 2015 with fellow San Bernardino County Representative Paul Cook (R-Apple Valley). Rep. Aguilar joined Rep. Cook to reintroduce the legislation in the 115th Congress earlier this year. Currently, land within the Santa Ana Wash is owned by both the San Bernardino Water Conservation District (the District) and the Bureau of Land Management (BLM). Parcels owned by the District are currently used for the purpose of recharging water in more than 77 basins, and also provide Riversidian Sage Scrub habitat. New lands would be set aside for conservation purposes near land managed by the BLM. The wash area is occupied by two mining companies, Cemex and Robertson’s Ready Mix, which extract aggregate for cement and concrete production. The production of aggregate will support numerous infrastructure projects and $36 million annually in payroll from this site alone. The exchange of land between the District and BLM will connect a patchwork of land ownership to create a consolidated open space for conservation purposes and will optimize mining efficiency and water conservation efforts. “I’m glad to join Rep. Paul Cook on this important bill, and appreciate the opportunity to testify before the Natural Resources Committee to reaffirm that support,” said Rep. Aguilar. He added, “This bill helps us accomplish some really important objectives for our community: investing in our regional economy, protecting our wildlife and environment, supporting local infrastructure projects and conserving water. To put it simply, the Wash Plan is an economic and environmental victory for the Inland Empire.” Rep. Cook said, “This important bipartisan legislation will complete the land swap at the center of the Santa Ana River Wash Plan. The Wash Plan will allow for the expansion of existing aggregate mining operations to support infrastructure, protect water recharge in the wash and manage critical habitat for threatened and endangered plants and animals. I look forward to working with Rep. Aguilar to get this done.” Daniel Cozad of the San Bernardino Water Conservation District commented, “I am so pleased to have the bipartisan support of Congressmen Aguilar and Cook for H.R. 497. This hearing is a critical step in completing the Wash Plan Habitat Conservation Plan that conserves and protects habitat, while permitting water conservation, mining and needed local government projects." Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) introduced the accompanying bill in the United States Senate earlier this year. Both Cemex and Robertson’s Ready Mix have also authored letters in support of the bill. The Wash Plan has been a continuing project for nearly thirty years, beginning in the 1980s as a proposal by the cities of Highland and Redlands. Rep. Aguilar has supported the initiative since he was on the Redlands City Council, and later as the Mayor of Redlands.
04.05.2017	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar announced that he will host a town hall on Tuesday, April 18th in San Bernardino for constituents of California’s 31st Congressional District. The event will be moderated by former Press-Enterprise columnist, Cassie MacDuff. “From ‘Coffee with your Congressman’ meetings to workshops and fairs, it’s important that I’m able to connect directly with constituents to discuss issues affecting our community. Whether we’re talking about health care, the effects of climate change or creating jobs, these are all issues being discussed at the national level that will affect the hard-working people I represent. I’m glad to host this town hall and look forward to talking with residents about what we can do to help middle-class families,” said Rep. Aguilar. What: Town Hall with Congressman Pete Aguilar When: Tuesday, April 18th from 6:30PM to 8:30PM Where: National Orange Show Events Center The Valencia Room 690 South Arrowhead Avenue San Bernardino, CA 92408 Constituents interested in attending should RSVP here. Members of the press should RSVP to Sarah Weinstein. Parking is available through Gate 9. For additional questions or concerns, please call 909-890-4445.
03.30.2017	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar announced that his office will participate in the 2017 Congressional Art Competition, an annual program that allows high school students from congressional districts throughout the country to share their works of art. The theme of this year’s contest is “My Wish” and is open to all high school students living in California’s 31st Congressional District. “This competition allows students to explore their creativity and empowers them to be confident and proud of their accomplishments,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “Supporting the arts through contests like this encourages our kids to follow their passion and allows family, friends and the community to help celebrate their success.” To participate in the Congressional Art Competition, students must be in high school and live in California’s 31st Congressional District, a map of which is available here. Submissions may be up to 26 inches by 26 inches, 4 inches in depth and no more than 15 pounds, including the frame. Original paintings, drawings, collages and prints are all accepted. Students should also adhere to the “My Wish” theme. The theme focuses on students’ wishes, whether these are ambitions they aspire to or wishes for their home, family or future. The winner will have their artwork on display in the United States Capitol for one year, representing California’s 31st Congressional District, and will have the opportunity to travel to Washington D.C. for a ceremony with winners from other districts around the nation. Submissions must be delivered to Rep. Aguilar’s office at 685 East Carnegie Drive, Suite 100 in San Bernardino no later than 5:00PM on May 1, 2017. For additional information, please visit Aguilar.house.gov or call 909-890-4445.
03.22.2017	A critical cyberwarriors pilot program created by Rep. Aguilar is being implemented, the United States Army announced last month. Rep. Aguilar’s program was included in the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year (FY) 2017, which passed the House of Representatives in May 2016 and was later signed into law. The pilot program expedites the process for individuals in the cybersecurity field to become officers in the United States Army and the United States Air Force. This program incentivizes students at institutions that specialize in cybersecurity training, like California State University, San Bernardino (CSUSB), to enter the armed forces and become cyberwarriors quickly and efficiently. “Expanding our cybersecurity workforce is paramount to strengthening our national security,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “As threats at home and abroad have become more sophisticated through rapidly evolving technology, it’s crucial that we have trained and ready recruits fighting to keep Americans safe. I’m glad that this program is moving forward and that it can empower local institutions like Cal State San Bernardino, which will allow us to invest in our growing Inland Empire talent.” Patricia Frost, Director of the Headquarters Department of the Army, Cyber Directorate said, "The Direct Commissioning program has great utility for the Army to fill key niche Cyber Mission Force work roles." Rep. Aguilar’s amendment to create the pilot program was included in the 2017 NDAA. The NDAA is the annual defense policy bill that directs the United States’ defense programs for the year. The U.S. Army’s announcement was first reported by Fifth Domain and can be read here. Investing in cybersecurity has always been a priority for Rep. Aguilar. Earlier this month, the House of Representatives approved H.R. 1301, which includes $5 million secured by Rep. Aguilar to restart critical cybersecurity scholarships affecting CSUSB students. It will now go before the U.S. Senate for consideration. Rep. Aguilar serves on the House Appropriations Committee and is a member of the Cybersecurity Caucus.
03.17.2017	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar spoke on the House floor in opposition to House Republicans’ health care bill to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act (ACA). The ACA has helped over 20 million Americans access health care coverage, while the Republicans’ bill to repeal and replace the ACA would strip 24 million Americans of coverage. Highlighting stories he’s heard from constituents in San Bernardino County, Rep. Aguilar shared a letter from Daria in Redlands who suffers from a rare and debilitating disease, and whose family relies on Medi-Cal. Rep. Aguilar condemned House Republicans for their disastrous plan that will penalize families like Daria’s while rewarding the super-rich, and he challenged Republican leaders to face the families that this health care bill would punish. Rep. Aguilar’s speech can be viewed in full here. Rep. Aguilar is committed to improving the ACA and opposes the House Republican bill to repeal and replace the ACA. House Republicans’ bill has been slammed by both Republicans and Democrats, as well as independent agencies, for the devastating repercussions it will sow. House Republicans’ plan will strip 24 million Americans of health care and drive up premiums for older Americans by as much as 25 percent.
03.16.2017	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar issued a statement in response to President Donald Trump’s “skinny budget,” which outlines the priorities of the federal budget for Fiscal Year 2018. The president’s proposal would gut funding for critical federal programs affecting San Bernardino County residents, such as affordable housing, after school and summer programs, work-study aid, and transportation and infrastructure projects including the Redlands Passenger Rail, which is funded through the TIGER grant program. “In his first few months in office, the president has repeatedly shown his disregard for middle-class American families and this budget is a reflection of that,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “The president’s plan would force Inland Empire families to pay for a border wall between the United States and Mexico, while stripping our community of affordable homeownership opportunities, job training programs, student aid and critical infrastructure investments that our region desperately needs. Donald Trump’s policy priorities are completely inconsistent with the Inland Empire's needs and values.” The president’s budget would also cut investments in counterterrorism funding, medical research, environmental protections and more. Rep. Aguilar has repeatedly opposed President Trump’s destructive and divisive policy priorities and remains committed to fighting any actions by the Trump Administration that threaten San Bernardino County families.
03.13.2017	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar issued a statement in response to the Congressional Budget Office’s (CBO) score of House Republicans’ Affordable Care Act (ACA) repeal plan. This afternoon, the CBO projected that 24 million Americans will lose health care coverage under House Republicans’ new bill. The legislation would also dramatically increase premiums by allowing insurance companies to charge older adults up to five times more for coverage, driving up premiums for older adults by as much as 25 percent. “Today’s report confirms what we all feared – House Republicans’ plan to repeal and replace the ACA will strip health care from millions of hard-working Americans, drive up premiums for older adults, and give tax breaks to the uber-wealthy. This bill is being rushed through Congress because House Republicans know it’s a bad deal for middle-class families. This bill was written in secret, hidden from the public and forced through committees in the dead of night. Now we know why.” said Rep. Aguilar. Rep. Aguilar worked with House Republicans in the 114th Congress to improve the ACA by repealing the tax on health insurance plans and on medical device manufacturers. Rep. Aguilar supports improving the ACA but remains committed to opposing any actions that threaten affordable coverage for San Bernardino County families, which includes a full repeal of the bill. Rep. Aguilar hosted a health care roundtable on Saturday afternoon, where he met with Inland Empire health care providers, patient advocacy organizations, union representatives and officials from the San Bernardino County Government to discuss the impact of the new health care bill on Inland Empire residents. The CBO is a nonpartisan, independent federal agency that provides impartial budget analysis and cost estimates for legislation under consideration by Congress. You can read the CBO report on the American Health Care Act here.
03.13.2017	On Saturday, Rep. Pete Aguilar hosted a health care roundtable with Inland Empire providers and patient advocacy organizations to discuss House Republicans’ bill to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act (ACA), and the impact this will have on the community. “I convened this meeting because it’s critical that I hear from local providers and advocacy organizations about how this health care bill will affect Inland Empire families’ ability to access quality and affordable care,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “Democrats have asked Republicans to work together for years to improve the Affordable Care Act. Rather than work together to make our current system work for all Americans, Republicans drafted a new bill in secret, concealed it from the public and rammed it through two committee markup sessions in less than 48 hours. This is not how governing should work. We cannot risk stripping millions of people of their health insurance, including those in San Bernardino County, so House Republicans can pass a bill they don’t even know the full repercussions of.” Rep. Aguilar was joined by a dozen representatives from regional health care providers, unions, patient advocacy organizations and the San Bernardino County Government. The new bill in question, the American Health Care Act, has yet to receive a score by the Congressional Budget Office (CBO). The CBO’s score is a determinant in projected costs and effectiveness (in terms of health care coverage) of the bill. Rep. Aguilar has a proven record of working with Republicans to improve the Affordable Care Act. He has cosponsored bipartisan legislation to repeal the ACA’s tax on health insurance plans and on medical device manufacturers. Rep. Aguilar is committed to working with his colleagues in Congress to ensure Inland Empire families have access to quality health care and opposes measures that threaten affordable coverage for middle-class Americans.
03.08.2017	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar announced that his amendment to appropriate $5 million to the Information Assurance Scholarship Program (IASP) was included in H.R. 1301, the Department of Defense Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year (FY) 2017, and passed the House of Representatives this afternoon. This funding will allow the Secretary of Defense to issue scholarships to individuals obtaining skills in computer and network security. The scholarships were previously offered at California State University, San Bernardino (CSUSB) but were suspended due to lack of funding. “The issue of cybersecurity has never been as critical to our national defense programs as it is today,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “We need to do everything in our power to ensure that we are ahead of the rest of the world on cybersecurity advances, which we can only do if we invest in our talent early.” Dr. Tony Coulson, Director of the Cyber Security Center at CSUSB added, “The restart of this very important program will provide critically needed cyber security skills for the Department of Defense, the nation and this region.” The Department of Defense Appropriations Act for FY 2017 allocates federal funds for defense programs and projects for the fiscal year. Rep. Aguilar’s efforts to secure this funding will allow CSUSB to offer IASP scholarships again. CSUSB is renowned for its cybersecurity education program. This is not the first time that Rep. Aguilar’s work has helped support cybersecurity programs. Last year, Rep. Aguilar passed legislation to establish a pilot program to expedite the process for individuals in the cybersecurity field to become officers in the U.S. Army and the U.S. Air Force. H.R. 1301 now moves to the Senate for consideration. Current defense funding expires with the current continuing resolution on April 28, 2017. Rep. Aguilar serves on the House Appropriations Committee and is a member of the Cybersecurity Caucus.
03.06.2017	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar condemned President Trump’s anti-immigrant executive order to ban all refugees and ban travelers from six Muslim-majority nations from entering the United States, which is only the president’s latest attack on the immigrant community. “This new Muslim ban still would not have prevented the deadly terror attack in San Bernardino, nor would it have prevented any other domestic act of terror. Rather than focus on issues of national security that would make our country safer – like tracking and interrupting lone wolves who self-radicalize or dismantling how terrorists communicate on social media platforms – President Trump prefers demonizing refugees who have fled unspeakable violence,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “We cannot ignore that Donald Trump campaigned on and is now governing on an anti-immigrant platform. This new ban comes on the heels of numerous stories of Dreamers being arrested and detained unlawfully. This is the wrong approach to strengthening our national security, and will make our defense weaker, not stronger.” Rep. Aguilar has been a vocal critic of President Trump’s anti-immigrant priorities. The president’s first executive order targeting refugees was ruled unconstitutional by the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals. Rep. Aguilar remains committed to fighting to protect the immigrant community and working toward a bipartisan solution to solve the United States’ broader immigration crisis.
03.02.2017	Last week, Rep. Pete Aguilar hosted an Immigration and Dreamers Town Hall at San Bernardino Valley College. Rep. Aguilar provided a federal update on immigration and answered questions from students, many of whom are Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) recipients. Anthony Victoria with Inland Empire Community News covered the event. His article can be read in full here.
02.28.2017	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar issued the following statement in response to President Trump’s address to a joint session of Congress: “From demonizing immigrants and refugees to stripping transgender students of basic human rights, President Trump’s actions thus far have spoken far louder than his words,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “Tonight we heard the president tout his record after one month in office—a record of tearing families apart, vowing to repeal health care for tens of millions of Americans, ending protections for the LGBTQ community and rolling back crucial environmental safeguards. President Trump doubled-down on his actions and reaffirmed his commitment to policies that will hurt San Bernardino County’s middle class. On President Trump’s first day in office, I vowed to hold him accountable for any decisions that threaten Inland Empire families and I remain committed to that promise.” Since President Trump took office in January, Rep. Aguilar has resisted the administration’s agenda, including the president’s anti-Muslim and unconstitutional travel ban, conflicts of interest posed by his business dealings and his ties to Russia, to name a few. Rep. Aguilar has cosponsored legislation to block funding for enforcement of the president’s Muslim ban and to prevent the building of a wall between the United States and Mexico. He is also a cosponsor of H.Res. 111, Rep. Jerry Nadler’s (D-NY) resolution of inquiry to investigate President Trump’s ties to Russia, ethics violations and other potentially criminal conflicts of interest. Rep. Aguilar, a steadfast advocate for the immigrant community, met with lawyers and immigration organizations at LAX when the president’s Muslim ban detained travelers. Tonight Rep. Aguilar was joined by Maria Barragan-Arreguin, Coordinator of the California State University, San Bernardino DREAMers Resource and Success Center, for the president’s address. Maria is a Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) recipient and a passionate activist for Dreamers in the San Bernardino County community.
02.28.2017	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar announced that he will bring Maria Barragan-Arreguin, Coordinator at the California State University, San Bernardino DREAMers Resource and Success Center, as his guest to President Donald Trump’s address before a joint session of Congress. Maria is a Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) recipient. “Maria, and the Dreamers like her in our community, are a shining light for our region and nation. The United States was founded by immigrants and every chapter of our history has been shaped by the contributions of those who came to our shores in search of opportunity. We cannot and will not turn our backs on the immigrant community. I stand with Maria and the millions like her who deserve a pathway to citizenship,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “President Trump has spent nearly two years villainizing the immigrant community and stomping on the values that established this country. This evening, together, we will remind him that immigrants are what ‘Make America Great,’ not his flawed policies rooted in hatred.” Rep. Aguilar is an ardent supporter of the DACA program and comprehensive immigration reform with a pathway to citizenship.
02.24.2017	Yesterday, Rep. Pete Aguilar held an Immigration and Dreamers Town Hall at San Bernardino Valley College to give a federal update on immigration actions and to hear form Dreamers and staff at the college’s Dreamer Resource Center. “Dreamers and many in the immigrant community are terrified—so it’s my responsibility to be here to answer any questions they have, provide additional information and to remind them that I am their advocate. And I’m not going anywhere,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “President Trump’s vilification of the immigrant community has caused real harm both in terms of policy and practice. Rather than focus on creating jobs or investing in our nation’s crumbling infrastructure – as he promised – he has prioritized mass deportations. This has to stop. Solving our immigration crisis is about keeping families together, not demonizing parents for wanting to give their children a better life.” Representatives from the Mexican and Guatemalan consulates were also present to provide students with additional information about their rights and how the respective countries have been working with the United States government in light of new immigration protocol. Rep. Aguilar is a stalwart supporter of comprehensive immigration reform with a pathway to citizenship and is an ally for the immigrant community. He has opposed President Trump’s xenophobic actions and rhetoric and is committed to working with Democrats and Republicans on a solution to our nation’s immigration crisis that keeps families together.
02.21.2017	On Saturday, Rep. Pete Aguilar hosted his second annual Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) and College Affordability Workshop at San Bernardino Valley College. The session, which included presentations from Patricia Aguilera of Cal State San Bernardino and Fermin Ramirez, Financial Outreach Coordinator for San Bernardino Valley College, addressed the FAFSA application as well as additional information for parents and guardians with children navigating the student loan process for the first time. Since taking office in 2015, Rep. Aguilar has held multiple constituent service events that focused on college affordability, jobs, assistance for seniors, U.S. Service Academies and more. Rep. Aguilar’s office also holds monthly Mobile Office Hours in Rancho Cucamonga to help residents who need assistance accessing federal agencies. “College affordability is one of the most pertinent issues Inland Empire families – and all Americans – face today. In addition to creating and supporting legislation to ease this increasing financial burden, it’s my responsibility to ensure San Bernardino County families have access to information on federal tools, grants or loans,” said Rep. Aguilar. He added, “I wouldn’t have been able to afford college without federal assistance, so I know how important it is to offer workshops and resources like this.” College affordability is a personal issue to Rep. Aguilar, who was only able to afford college with the help of a Pell Grant and through working part-time jobs. In his first term, Rep. Aguilar cosponsored numerous pieces of legislation to improve college affordability, including measures that would make two years of community college free for all Americans and to expand access to Pell Grants. Rep. Aguilar wrote the Grace Period Alleviation (GPA) Act, which would ease the financial burden on students repaying their federal student loans. The GPA Act can be read in full here. The federal deadline for the FAFSA application is March 2, 2017. If you have questions on the FAFSA application or student loan process and were unable to attend the workshop, please call Rep. Aguilar’s office at 909-890-4445. Please visit https://www.aguilar.house.gov to stay up to date on future workshops and events.
02.16.2017	Last night, Rep. Pete Aguilar hosted a Telephone Town Hall from his Washington, D.C. office with nearly 10,000 constituents in San Bernardino County. Earlier in the day, Rep. Aguilar joined reporter Jeff Horseman for a Facebook Live Town Hall on the San Bernardino Sun’s Facebook page. “I know there are a lot of questions about issues affecting our region and country, so it’s important that I’m available and accessible to answer those questions, even when I’m in Washington working on my community’s behalf,” said Rep. Aguilar. He added, “I need to hear from constituents so I can be an effective advocate and ensure that Inland Empire families’ voices are heard.” Nearly 10,000 residents joined Rep. Aguilar for his Telephone Town Hall and there have been over 8,000 views of Rep. Aguilar’s Facebook Live Town Hall with Jeff Horseman. Visit https://aguilar.house.gov to stay up to date on future events and town halls.
02.10.2017	On Wednesday, February 15th, Rep. Pete Aguilar will host a Telephone Town Hall from Washington, D.C. to hear from San Bernardino County residents. While Congress is in session all week, Rep. Aguilar will connect with constituents in his community to talk about issues affecting Inland Empire families. “This is a great way to connect with constituents in my community while I’m in Washington advocating on their behalf,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “There are a lot of issues we’re discussing at the federal level that affect our region, so it’s important that I’m able to communicate with families and answer their questions and concerns.” Rep. Aguilar’s Telephone Town Hall will begin at 6:00PM PST. To participate, residents should dial (855) 756-7520 extension 34462#. For additional questions about how to participate, please call 909-890-4445. What: Rep. Aguilar’s Telephone Town Hall When: Wednesday, February 15th at 6:00PM How: Dial (855) 756-7520, ext. 34462#
02.02.2017	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar announced that he will host a FAFSA (Free Application for Federal Student Aid) and college affordability workshop on Saturday, February 18th to assist students and families ahead of the March 2nd application deadline. Patricia Aguilera from California State University, San Bernardino will be on site to answer questions about the FAFSA application process as well as other student loan concerns. “College affordability is one of the most important issues for San Bernardino County families. As tuition continues to rise, we need to do everything we can to give students and their families the resources they need to afford college,” said Rep. Aguilar. He added, “Parents shouldn’t have to choose between retirement and putting their kids through school. We can and we should work to make it a little easier.” What: FAFSA and College Affordability Workshop When: Saturday, February 18th from 9:00AM to 11:00AM Where: San Bernardino Valley College 701 S. Mount Vernon Avenue, San Bernardino, CA 92410 [Business Conference Center, Room B100] Free parking is available in lots 1 and 11. Anyone interested in attending can RSVP here. For additional information, please call Rep. Aguilar’s office at 909-890-4445. Rep. Aguilar and his brother were the first in their family to go to college. Rep. Aguilar was only able to afford college with the help of a Pell Grant and part-time jobs. Since taking office, he’s prioritized making college more affordable. Last year, he introduced the Grace Period Alleviation (GPA) Act, which would ease the financial burden on students by extending their loan repayment grace period, eliminating interest payments during the grace period for students with subsidized loans, and allowing students to refinance their loans under certain circumstances. He has also cosponsored numerous pieces of legislation to expand access to Pell Grants, make two years of community college free for all Americans, and to improve accountability measures at for-profit colleges to protect students. This is Rep. Aguilar’s second FAFSA and college affordability workshop.
01.29.2017	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar issued the following statement in response to President Trump’s refusal to comply with multiple federal orders to halt detentions and deportations, which began Friday evening following the president’s executive order enforcing a refugee ban on seven nations: “On Friday, President Trump issued an executive order that targets refugees and immigrants based on their religion. His xenophobic rhetoric and actions are not consistent with the values of our nation. This executive order will do nothing to make our country safer and only sends a message of hate and bigotry to the rest of the world. This order would not have prevented the attack in San Bernardino and the use of San Bernardino as justification for this anti-Muslim policy is a revolting way to exploit our community. Federal judges around the country have issued orders to halt detentions and deportations. Despite these orders, the Department of Homeland Security, under the president's direction, is continuing to enforce the executive order and proceeding with detentions, removals and denial of access to attorneys. This is abhorrent. This is inhumane. This is unconstitutional. President Trump's actions are in violation of the United States Constitution and he must be held accountable immediately.”
01.23.2017	On the heels of the Women’s March on Washington and one day after the 44th anniversary of the historic Roe v. Wade decision, Rep. Pete Aguilar pledged to remain a fierce advocate for women’s reproductive rights. “I always have and always will be an unwavering defender of women’s reproductive freedom,” said Rep. Pete Aguilar. He continued, “I was proud to march beside hundreds of thousands of Americans—including my own constituents—to remind President Trump that I will hold him accountable for any attempt to undermine women’s rights. A woman’s health decision is between her and her doctor, not her and a politician—to me, this principle is non-negotiable.” On Monday, in one of his first acts as President, Donald Trump signed an executive order barring non-governmental organizations that provide reproductive health care overseas from receiving United States funds. This comes on the heels of President Trump’s executive order to repeal the individual mandate of the Affordable Care Act, sending a message to Americans that his priority is to restrict access to affordable and comprehensive health care. Rep. Aguilar is a member of the Pro-Choice Caucus and a resolute supporter of protecting women’s reproductive rights. He has a 100 percent rating from Planned Parenthood.
01.20.2017	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar issued the following statement on the inauguration of President Donald Trump: “Today, I bore witness to the peaceful transfer of power—a central component to our nation’s democratic process. While I respect the office of the presidency, I harbor deep concerns about the man who has assumed the position. Donald Trump spent eighteen months normalizing racism and sexism. He called Mexicans rapists and criminals, proposed unconstitutional bans and registries for Muslim Americans, bragged about sexually assaulting women, mocked Americans with disabilities, and the list goes on. “Attending today’s inauguration was my duty as a voice for San Bernardino County residents. My attendance was a reminder to President Trump of who will hold him accountable during his term to ensure that Inland Empire families are not made to pay the price for his flawed and dangerous policies.” This afternoon, Rep. Aguilar will participate in a press conference with the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, which can be viewed on Facebook Live here, beginning at 12PM PST/3PM EST. On Saturday, Rep. Aguilar will participate in the Women’s March on Washington.
01.13.2017	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar was assigned to the Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy, Water Development, and Related Agencies and the Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies on the powerful House Appropriations Committee. “I’m pleased to be assigned to these subcommittees, both of which deal with critical issues in the Inland Empire community,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “My role on these subcommittees will allow me to be a stronger advocate for San Bernardino County to invest in projects affecting our roads, rails and bridges, to better deal with California’s historic drought and to address the need for affordable housing. We have a lot of work ahead and I’m ready to get started.” In addition to serving on the Appropriations Committee, Rep. Aguilar will also serve as an Assistant Whip in the House Democratic Caucus and as the Whip of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus in the 115th Congress.
01.11.2017	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar joined members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) to warn House Republicans of the ramifications of repealing the Affordable Care Act (ACA). “We'll go back to the days when people were denied coverage for having pre-existing conditions, where preventative screenings weren't covered and when simply being a woman was a pre-existing condition. That's shameful. It is unforgivable that House Republicans would choose to go back to that,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “In my community of San Bernardino County, 67 percent of health care recipients are from communities of color…House Republicans have viciously and mercilessly argued against strengthening the ACA because they claim to know better. It's been over six years – what’s your plan?” According to Health Access California, repealing the Affordable Care Act without replacing it would cause an estimated 20 billion dollar loss to California health care. Recent data shows that nearly 40,000 residents in California’s 31st Congressional district and approximately five million throughout California have enrolled in Covered California since the Affordable Care Act was signed into law. Additionally, nearly 200,000 San Bernardino County residents and over 80,000 people in California’s 31st Congressional District now receive health care through Medi-Cal since the ACA expansion. Rep. Aguilar serves as the Whip of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. He is committed to working with House Democrats and Republicans to improve the Affordable Care Act so it works for all Americans.
01.09.2017	In the 115th Congress, Rep. Pete Aguilar will take on new leadership roles as the Whip of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus and as an Assistant Whip in the House Democratic Caucus. Rep. Aguilar has also been nominated to serve on the powerful House Appropriations Committee. Jeff Horseman with The Press-Enterprise highlights Rep. Aguilar’s new positions and how they will help him be a stronger advocate for Inland Empire families. The full story can be read in The Press-Enterprise or online here.
01.06.2017	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar announced that the Department of Education awarded San Bernardino County Head Start Programs $5 million to assist with measures to increase the duration of time students spend in the classroom and to also fund the expansions of facilities, classrooms and education personnel. “Empowering our kids with the resources they need to succeed starts at the very beginning, so I’m glad to see these federal funds returned to our community. This grant will allow us to give students time and attention to receive the quality education they deserve,” said Rep. Aguilar. San Bernardino County Director of Preschool Services Diana Alexander said, “Head Start is committed to ensuring that all of the children we serve have access to the highest quality in education standards. Part of this commitment now includes facilitating a change from part day/part year school services to full day/full year. We are excited about the awarding of this grant because it will support us in fulfilling Head Start’s commitment to our children right here in San Bernardino County.” Since taking office in 2015, Rep. Aguilar has made investing in education, from pre-k through college, one of his top priorities. In his first term, Rep. Aguilar visited multiple Head Start programs and met with teachers, administrators and students. Supporting investments in early childhood education is a personal issue for Rep. Aguilar, who worked as a teacher’s aide in a Head Start program when he was a student at the University of Redlands.
01.05.2017	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar announced that he’s been nominated to serve on the powerful House Appropriations Committee. The House Appropriations Committee has the immense responsibility of appropriating funds and spending for the federal government, along with the Senate Committee on Appropriations. The Appropriations Committee’s twelve subcommittees allocate funding for all federal government programs and operations. “I’m honored to have the opportunity to bear this great responsibility,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “Assisting with how funds are appropriated, especially as a leader from a region that has been in serious need of federal support, I understand what struggling communities throughout the nation are experiencing. This committee has never been more important to the democratic process than it is today, and I look forward to joining my colleagues on the House Appropriations Committee and getting to work.” “Congressman Pete Aguilar is a steadfast champion for hard-working families throughout San Bernardino County and across America,” House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi said. “With his bold, strategic, insightful leadership, Pete will be a strong advocate on the Appropriations Committee fighting for families, good-paying jobs, education and opportunity for all, not just the privileged few.” Rep. Aguilar served on the House Armed Services and Agriculture Committees in the 114th Congress. In the 115th Congress, Rep. Aguilar will also serve as an Assistant Whip on the House Democratic Caucus Leadership team and as the Whip of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus.
01.04.2017	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar announced that he’s been appointed by Democratic Whip Steny H. Hoyer to serve as an Assistant Whip as part of the House Democratic Caucus leadership team for the 115th Congress. “I’m honored to have the opportunity to shape and advocate for policies that will help my community in San Bernardino County and those like it around the nation,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “As we begin the 115th Congress, we must ensure crucial issues like job creation, affordable and accessible health care, and the preservation of Medicare and Social Security are never compromised. I’m grateful to Whip Hoyer for this responsibility and I look forward to working with my colleagues in Congress to advance priorities that will help raise the middle class.” Democratic Whip Steny H. Hoyer said, "Rep. Pete Aguilar has already proven himself to be an excellent Representative for the people of California's Thirty-First District in Congress, and I'm pleased to announce that he will serve as an Assistant Whip for the 115th Congress. As a former city councilman and mayor, Rep. Aguilar understands the effects federal policies have on local communities, and he's been working hard since coming to Congress to ensure that Washington remains focused on jobs and opportunity for everyone in our country. I look forward to working closely with him in the 115th Congress to advance Democrats' goals of raising wages, making our communities safer, fixing our broken immigration system, and attracting high-paying manufacturing jobs back to the United States." Rep. Aguilar was sworn in for his second term in the United States House of Representatives on Tuesday afternoon. He represents California’s 31st Congressional District and currently serves on the House Armed Services and Agriculture Committees. He will also serve as the Whip of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus for the 115th Congress.
12.23.2016	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar announced that the Department of Justice (DOJ) has awarded $4 million to support short-and long-term needs of Inland Regional Center terror attack survivors and families of victims as they continue to recover and rebuild in the aftermath of the tragedy that killed 14 and seriously injured 22 on December 2, 2015. “One year later, survivors and victims’ families are still fighting to heal and move forward, so as they navigate this process it is our responsibility as their leaders and advocates to ensure they have access to the care they deserve,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “These federal funds will help, but there is more work to do and I remain committed to working with the survivors, my regional partners and local officials to ensure that every survivor and family member has the resources they need to recover.” “The funding from this grant will support the long-term needs of the victims and the San Bernardino community as they continue to recover from the tragic event,” said CalVCB Executive Officer Julie Nauman. “We are grateful to OVC for these additional resources which will be put to good use with needed mental health treatment, crisis counseling, peer support training, community resiliency forums and other critical services that will help victims and their families heal.” The funds were disbursed through the DOJ’s Anti-Terrorism and Emergency Assistance Program (AEAP) to the California Victim Compensation Board, which will reimburse San Bernardino County for expenses and projects funded by the grant. The grant will help pay for services for survivors and family members including, medical leave, COBRA reimbursement, lost income, mental health care, medical expenses, funeral expenses and rehabilitation. Additionally, the grant will fund resources that affect the broader community, including monthly resiliency forums, trauma workshops and mental health treatment for first responders and medical personnel who played pivotal roles in the community’s response to the attack. Rep. Aguilar was a fierce advocate for the federal grant. He authored a letter of support, which can be read here, and he remained in close contact with the Office for Victims of Crime as the grant application progressed through the review process. Since the terror attack in San Bernardino, Rep. Aguilar has been resolute in fighting for funds from the federal government to support the community and law enforcement in the wake of the attack. Last year, he worked with Rep. Ken Calvert (R-Corona) to deliver $1 million in federal funds to offset costs incurred from local law enforcement’s heroic response to the attack. Rep. Aguilar continues to work with his colleagues in Congress, federal agencies and local leaders to recover additional federal aid to help the City of San Bernardino and surrounding areas rebuild more than one year after the tragedy.
12.19.2016	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar reflected on his first term in the United States House of Representatives, where he served the people of California’s 31st Congressional District in the 114th Congress, and looked forward to the 115th Congress, which begins in January 2017. “Ensuring San Bernardino County’s working families have a seat at the table has been, and will remain, my top priority. That includes prioritizing legislation that will put people back to work, make college more affordable and help veterans access the tools they need to adjust to life at home. It also means creating opportunities in our community through workshops, information sessions and resource fairs, and being an advocate to help people access federal agencies to obtain their federal benefits or funding for local projects through federal grants,” said Rep. Aguilar. He added, “I’m grateful for the support and confidence of our district to bear these responsibilities now, and moving forward.” In his first term in office, Rep. Aguilar has: Participated in 337 constituent meetings, tours and events. Held 151 mobile office hours to assist constituents. Helped nearly 900 constituents with problems they faced with federal programs like Social Security, Medicare, and veterans benefits. Returned over $2.2 million in benefits to residents. Announced over $76 million in grant funding for California’s 31st Congressional District, including $1 million to help offset the costs incurred from local law enforcement’s heroic response to the Inland Regional Center terror attack. Introduced eight bills to put Inland Empire residents back to work, make college more affordable, increase accountability at the Department of Veterans Affairs, and to empower colleges and organizations with resources to help Dreamer students on campuses. Passed fourteen amendments to major legislation, including measures that will boost funding for cybersecurity training programs and facilitate the hiring of veterans by transitioning their skills from the military to civilian jobs. Cosponsored 274 bills, over one third of which were authored by Republicans. Ranked 4th out of all 53 California House Members in number of votes breaking with his party. Ranked 3rd out of all California House Democrats in number of votes breaking with his party. Rep. Aguilar represents California’s 31st Congressional District. He serves on the House Committees on Armed Services and Agriculture. In the 115th Congress, he will hold the leadership position of Whip of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC), where he will be the only California member on the caucus’s leadership team. Rep. Aguilar previously served as the Mayor of Redlands, where he resides today with his wife Alisha and their two sons.
12.14.2016	This week, Rep. Pete Aguilar hosted a for-profit college student loan relief and transfer workshop for students affected by for-profit college closures. The workshop, which assisted over forty students, included presentations and assistance from Rep. Aguilar’s staff and officials from the U.S. Department of Education. “I know firsthand how difficult it can be to afford a college education and how crushing student loan debt can feel,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “For-profit colleges have a history of suddenly closing and leaving students without degrees or means to settle their debts. This is unacceptable. I’m glad we hosted this event and that we were able to help guide students on their options for student loan relief and transfer opportunities.” Jose Vasquez, who attended Everest College, thanked Rep. Aguilar for hosting the event and added, “It was a helpful event, I learned about a new state program for loan borrowers.” Rep. Aguilar has hosted three college affordability workshops since taking office. His previous sessions focused on students affected by the closure of Everest College and for families navigating the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) application process. Rep. Aguilar’s college education was made possible through Pell Grants and part-time jobs. In addition to cosponsoring a number of bills to make college more affordable, Rep. Aguilar authored the Grace Period Alleviation (GPA) Act, which would help recent graduates by extending their loan repayment grace period, eliminating interest payments during the grace period for students with subsidized loans and allowing students to refinance their loans under certain circumstances. To learn more about Rep. Aguilar’s commitment to making higher education more affordable, visit his website here.
12.08.2016	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar reaffirmed his support for Dreamers on the sixth anniversary of the Dream Act passing the House of Representatives. The Dream Act would have established a path to legal status for Dreamers, or undocumented immigrants who were brought to the United States as children. In 2010, The Dream Act passed the House of Representatives but failed to pass the Senate. Under President Obama’s Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program, hundreds of thousands of Dreamers were granted work permits and temporary status. The future of Dreamers has become uncertain since President-elect Trump promised to deport millions of undocumented immigrants. “There’s a lot of uncertainty out there, so I want to make it clear that I will continue to be an advocate for our immigrant community, and my office will always be a safe space,” said Rep. Aguilar. He added, “We don’t know what lies ahead in the Trump Administration, but we do know that California’s leaders from the local, state and federal levels are committed to working together to protect the freedom and futures of Dreamers.” Rep. Aguilar has been an ardent supporter of comprehensive immigration reform with a path to citizenship and has sponsored numerous bills and measures in support of the immigrant community. He regularly convenes his Immigration Advisory Board to discuss issues facing the immigrant community, and earlier this year introduced the Academic Success Centers and Education Networks for Dreamers (ASCEND) Act, which creates a grant program to allocate four-year awards to centers and clubs that support Dreamers on college campuses. In recent weeks, Rep. Aguilar joined his colleagues to call on President Obama to pardon DACA recipients to ensure their safety from deportation under the next Administration. In the 115th Congress, Rep. Aguilar will serve as the Whip of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, where he will play a pivotal role on the leadership team to help direct the caucus’s priorities to help lift Hispanic communities in the Inland Empire and throughout the nation.
12.07.2016	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar questioned top military and defense leaders on the California National Guard reimbursement issue during a House Armed Services Committee hearing. In October, reports surfaced of California National Guardsmen and women being forced to repay excess bonuses. “Today’s committee hearing allowed us to hear directly from our military and defense leaders about how this problem occurred, but more importantly, how we fix it and prevent it from happening again,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “It’s crucial that we ascertain all of the relevant information so we can ensure our service members never have to face this type of problem again.” Rep. Aguilar questioned Major General David Baldwin of the California National Guard, asking him to explain the process that the California National Guard conducted to determine whether or not a soldier’s incentive pay or student loan was required to be recouped, and after the decision and notification was made, to explain what additional steps were taken. In October, Rep. Aguilar called on the Department Of Defense (DOD) to halt the collection process, investigate the situation and waive the recoupment of all bonuses. Last week, the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), the annual defense policy bill that directs the United States’ defense programs for the fiscal year, passed the House of Representatives. The NDAA includes the necessary tools to resolve the bonus reimbursement issue. Since reports of the collection of bonuses came to light, Rep. Aguilar convened his Veterans Advisory Board to discuss the issue locally. Rep. Aguilar serves on the House Armed Services Committee and the Subcommittees on Strategic Forces and Emerging Threats and Capabilities.
12.06.2016	On Sunday, Rep. Pete Aguilar authored an editorial for the San Bernardino Sun, reflecting on the one-year anniversary of the terrorist attack at the Inland Regional Center that killed 14 and seriously wounded 22. In the editorial, Rep. Aguilar discusses his personal experience on that day and reflects on the strength of the community as it continues to recover and rebuild. The full editorial can be read online here.
12.05.2016	On Friday, the United States House of Representatives passed the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year (FY) 2017, the annual defense policy bill that directs the United States’ defense programs for the fiscal year. This year’s bill includes a pay raise for service members, provides the Department of Defense (DOD) with the necessary tools to resolve the California National Guard bonus reimbursement issue, and authorizes funds for the US military to combat and defeat the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL). The NDAA also includes two critical measures authored by Rep. Pete Aguilar: the establishment of a pilot program to expedite the process for individuals in the cybersecurity field to become officers in the United States Armed Forces; and a change to make it easier for the DOD to compete for and hire experts in the fields of science and engineering. “With all that our nation faces at home and abroad, we need to have the most advanced and well-trained workforce to execute our defense programs,” said Rep. Aguilar. He added, “Increasing our cybersecurity programs and empowering young people with opportunities to acquire the necessary skill sets to take on that fight is paramount to strengthening our national security.” During the vote on the NDAA, Rep. Aguilar was with his community in San Bernardino for the first anniversary of the Inland Regional Center terrorist attack that killed 14 and seriously injured 22. Had he been present, he would have voted in favor of the legislation, which passed overwhelmingly with a vote of 375 to 34. His statement in the Congressional Record can be read online here. The bill will now go before the United States Senate for debate and further action. Last year, four of Rep. Aguilar’s amendments were added to the NDAA for FY 2016, which passed the House of Representatives. Rep. Aguilar serves on the House Armed Services Committee and the Subcommittees on Emerging Threats and Capabilities and Strategic Forces.
12.02.2016	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar released the following statement in reflection of the one-year anniversary of the terrorist attack at the Inland Regional Center in San Bernardino that killed 14 and seriously injured 22: “As we mark the one-year anniversary since the horrific attack in San Bernardino, my heart goes out to the victims’ families and to the survivors who are still fighting every day to heal and move forward. In the year since the tragedy, we have consistently seen the strength and determination of our community. We have stayed strong by standing together, refusing to give into hate or to let this senseless act of violence define us or divide us. As we reflect on that terrible day, we should hold ourselves to the same standard. Our community still has a lot of healing to do. The survivors and their families need our support and access to care to recuperate. And I pledge to them that I will not stop fighting until they receive the treatment they deserve. I will also continue to work with my colleagues in Congress to return federal funds to our community to offset the costs incurred from our law enforcement’s heroic response on that dark day. One year ago, we emerged from the shadows of adversity and fear and pushed forward. I have no doubt we will continue to recover and rebuild with that same spirit in our hearts.” Rep. Aguilar represents California’s 31st Congressional District, which includes the City of San Bernardino. He has served in the United States House of Representatives since 2015.
12.01.2016	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar was elected to serve as Whip of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) for the 115th Congress. Rep. Aguilar joins the CHC leadership team beside Congresswoman Michelle Lujan Grisham (Chair), and Congressmen Joaquin Castro (First Vice Chair) and Ruben Gallego (Second Vice Chair). Rep. Aguilar is the only California member on the CHC leadership team. “I’m grateful to have been chosen to serve as the Whip of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. The CHC’s priorities include comprehensive immigration reform with a pathway to citizenship, creating good-paying jobs, accessing affordable health care, and investing in quality education for our kids – all issues that are significant in my community,” said Rep. Aguilar. He added, “San Bernardino is representative of many of the regions throughout the nation that would benefit from these priorities, so I’m glad to take on a new role to help push those policies forward.” The CHC is a coalition of Hispanic Members of Congress focused on advancing issues that affect Hispanic communities throughout the United States. Rep. Pete Aguilar has represented California’s 31st Congressional District since 2015. He serves on the House Committees on Armed Services and Agriculture. Rep. Aguilar and his wife Alisha live in Redlands, where he previously served as the city’s mayor, with their two children.
12.01.2016	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar announced that the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has awarded the City of Rialto $291,000 to improve and upgrade its drinking water system. Rep. Aguilar said, “Access to safe drinking water is a basic and necessary responsibility that we have to uphold for the safety of our residents. I was happy to support this initiative and I’m glad to have partners like Mayor Robertson and the City of Rialto looking out for our community members to make sure every family has the support they need from their leaders to live healthy and safe lives.” Mayor Deborah Robertson said, “As the drought continues in California, Rialto is prepared to provide its residents with safe and reliable drinking water. The improvement of the SCADA system ensures that our water system is running as efficient and cost effective as possible.” The federal funds will go toward an existing project to invest in Rialto’s water infrastructure and improve the drinking water system. Infrastructure investments include the installation of a Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) system. This system will help monitor and manage the water treatment and distribution system, and takes additional steps to maintain clean and safe drinking water for Rialto residents. The City of Rialto is contributing $1,495,061, or 83.7 percent of the $1,786,061 total project cost. Since taking office, Rep. Aguilar has helped return millions of dollars in federal funds to Inland Empire communities to improve infrastructure, reduce veteran homelessness, access necessary resources for law enforcement and more. Additional information on applying for federal grants can be found at https://aguilar.house.gov/services/resources/grant-applicants.
11.29.2016	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar announced that he will hold a workshop on for-profit college student loan relief and transfer options to help students who have been affected by for-profit college closures, including ITT Tech, Everest College, Corinthian Colleges, Trump University and more. Staff members from Rep. Aguilar’s office and officials from the U.S. Department of Education will present and be on site to assist students. “As someone who personally struggled with college affordability, I understand the stress that thousands of Inland Empire families experience as they try to scrap and save, and apply for grants or loans to obtain a college education,” said Aguilar. He continued, “It shouldn’t have to be this hard, and it certainly shouldn’t be made even more difficult by for-profit colleges that take advantage of students. We can and should do more to make it a little bit easier, so I’m glad to host this workshop to help San Bernardino County families.” What: For-Profit College Student Loan Relief and Transfer Workshop When: Monday, December 12th at 3PM Where: 685 E. Carnegie Drive, Conference Room 240, San Bernardino, CA 92408 Anyone interested in attending can RSVP here. For additional information, please call Rep. Aguilar’s office at 909-890-4445. This is Rep. Aguilar’s third college affordability workshop. He previously held information sessions for students impacted by the Everest College closure and for families navigating the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) process. A Pell Grant recipient, Rep. Aguilar understands the difficulties that Inland Empire families face with college affordability. Earlier this year he introduced the Grace Period Alleviation (GPA) Act, which would help recent graduates by extending their loan repayment grace period, eliminating interest payments during the grace period for students with subsidized loans and allowing students to refinance their loans under certain circumstances. Rep. Aguilar has also cosponsored numerous pieces of legislation to address college affordability and to hold for-profit colleges accountable, including the Bank on Students Emergency Loan Refinancing Act, the All-Year ACCESS Act, the America’s College Promise Act and the Protections and Regulations for Our Students (PRO) Act. To learn more about Rep. Aguilar’s commitment to making higher education more affordable, visit his website here.
11.21.2016	On Friday, Rep. Pete Aguilar convened his Veterans Advisory Board to address health care concerns, and specifically, the relationship and responsiveness of federal agencies to Inland Empire veterans. “Some of the most common concerns I’ve heard from veterans, both on my advisory board and in casework that comes through my office, are connected to the relationship between federal agencies and our veterans. Whether we are talking about completing record requests or the recent National Guard reimbursement issue, these problems seem to boil down to communication between federal agencies and our nation’s veterans,” said Rep. Aguilar. He added, “With the help of my advisory board and Congressional action, I believe these are issues we can address and work together to solve.” Friday was Rep. Aguilar’s latest meeting with his Veterans Advisory Board, which has previously met to address veteran health care, homelessness, and employment. Earlier this year, Rep. Aguilar introduced the VA Accountability for Location of Records (VALOR) Act to improve accountability and responsiveness at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). Rep. Aguilar has also collaborated with Republicans and Democrats to put veterans back to work, supported legislation to confront the dangerous suicide rate among female veterans, and helped return federal funds to combat veteran homelessness in San Bernardino County. Rep. Aguilar’s bill can be read here, and to learn more about how he’s fighting for veterans, visit his website here.
11.17.2016	Yesterday, Rep. Pete Aguilar joined 168 of his colleagues in the House of Representatives to call on President-elect Donald Trump to rescind his White House appointment of Steve Bannon. Bannon, who as the Executive Chairman of Breitbart News, managed content that included racist, xenophobic and anti-Semitic narratives. Bannon also has ties to the White Nationalist movement. “Steve Bannon has built his career by spreading hateful and discriminatory propaganda. In the week since the election, our nation has seen an onslaught of attacks and harassment directed at minority populations,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “With the growing threats, we cannot afford to have someone as poisonous as Steve Bannon in the White House. If President-elect Trump truly wishes to unite the country as he says, he must immediately rescind this appointment.” Rep. Aguilar, along with 168 of his colleagues, sent a letter to President-elect Trump, calling on him to rescind the appointment. The effort was spearheaded by Rep. David Cicilline (D-RI) and can be read in full here.
11.17.2016	In the November/December issue of 909 Magazine, Rep. Pete Aguilar authors a personal message to the Inland Empire community about his road to a life in public service and his priorities in Congress to help San Bernardino County’s middle-class families. Rep. Aguilar highlights how as a young boy, the Exxon Valdez oil spill and its impact on the environment and wildlife inspired him to get involved in his community. He also reflects on his first term in Congress and focuses on critical issues affecting Inland Empire families that will continue to be top priorities for him. 909 Magazine’s November/December issue is out now and can also be read online here.
11.02.2016	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar joined Inland Empire community members for a signing ceremony commemorating the transfer of the Ontario International Airport from the Los Angeles World Airports. The event hosted community members and public officials, including Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Administrator Michael P. Huerta, U.S. Senator Dianne Feinstein and fellow Inland Empire Representatives Ken Calvert and Norma Torres, among others. Rep. Aguilar said, “Securing the transfer of Ontario International Airport from Los Angeles is critical for our region and is a significant step forward for the Inland Empire’s transportation and infrastructure networks. As we continue to expand and as communities develop, it’s important for San Bernardino County to have local control and autonomy over its transportation system.” Rep. Aguilar has been a vocal supporter of local control of Ontario International Airport, and cosponsored Rep. Ken Calvert’s (R-Corona) legislation, H.R. 4369, which helped facilitate the transfer. Investing in Inland Empire transportation and infrastructure has been a priority of Rep. Aguilar’s since taking office last year, and is why he has supported a number of bills that would increase investments in local roads, rails and bridges, and why he has supported numerous federal grants to bring funds back to the Inland Empire to assist local infrastructure projects.
10.27.2016	Yesterday, Rep. Pete Aguilar convened his latest meeting with his Immigration Advisory Board. The panel consists of local stakeholders, immigration advocacy organization representatives, higher education officials and staff members from foreign consulates in Southern California. The discussion focused on Rep. Aguilar’s immigration bill, the Academic Success Centers and Education Networks for Dreamers (ASCEND) Act, and other efforts to assist the San Bernardino County immigrant community. “As we continue to discuss legislative solutions to fix our nation’s broken immigration system, it’s important for me to have conversations with community members about where we are and where we’re going,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “Comprehensive Immigration Reform with a pathway to citizenship is certainly the goal, but right now, addressing the smaller issues we see in our region is more realistic. I appreciate the insight and advice offered by my advisory board as we navigate these concerns.” Fatima Cristerna-Adame, Regional Director for the California Charter School Association said, “I am eternally grateful to have a congressman that cares and is actually moving forward with proposed legislation like the ASCEND Act and not just talking about change.” Luis Medina, Consul for Protection and Legal Affairs at the Consulate of Mexico in San Bernardino added, “The meeting with Congressman Pete Aguilar allowed the parties involved to understand what local representatives are doing for their constituents. Having representatives from Mexico and Guatemala shows that the congressman is aware of the two largest Hispanic populations living in his area.” Rep. Aguilar formed his Immigration Advisory Board earlier this year after holding an Immigration Roundtable with local stakeholders. He is a fierce proponent of Comprehensive Immigration Reform with a pathway to citizenship and supports expanding the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program and the creation of the Deferred Action for Parents of Americans and Lawful Permanent Residents (DAPA) program. Last month, Rep. Aguilar introduced the ASCEND Act, which creates a grant program to allocate four-year awards to centers and clubs that support Dreamers on college campuses. The bill has been endorsed by the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, Cal State San Bernardino, the Southern California Consortium of Hispanic-Serving Institutions, the San Bernardino Community College District, the Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights of Los Angeles (CHIRLA) and the League of United Latin American Citizens (LULAC).
10.11.2016	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar toured Goodwill Southern California in San Bernardino with President and CEO Patrick McClenahan, Vice President of Workforce and Career Development Simon Lopez, and Regional Operations Officer, Inland Empire, Lowell King. Rep. Aguilar’s visit was to learn more about Goodwill Southern California’s services for community members, specifically job training and placement programs. “This was an informative visit to learn about the important programs offered at Goodwill Southern California. As our region continues to recover from the Great Recession, it’s critical that we have community resources to support residents in addition to the federal solutions we’re working on in Congress,” said Rep. Aguilar. He added, “I’m grateful to Mr. McClenahan for walking me around today, and to Goodwill Southern California for their continued efforts to empower Inland Empire working families.” “There is a tremendous need that exists in this region,” said Patrick McClenahan, President and CEO of Goodwill Southern California. “Goodwill is dedicated to Transforming Lives Through the Power of Work. We appreciate the Congressman’s support.” According to Goodwill Southern California, each store employs between 20 and 30 local residents, which has generated approximately $88.2 million in wages and an economic output of $412 million throughout the region. Since taking office, Rep. Aguilar has prioritized job creation and getting the Inland Empire economy back on track. He’s written and introduced five different jobs bills to close the skills gap, expand tax credits for small business owners, help local firms that have been adversely impacted by foreign competition, eliminate burdensome fees on small businesses, and open communication channels for Workforce Development Boards (WDB) to use federal resources to advertise their jobs services. Rep. Aguilar has also established a Small Business Advisory Board, and released a Jobs Plan, which is his blueprint to get the Inland Empire economy moving again. His Jobs Plan can be read in full here.
10.07.2016	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar toured the new VA Loma Linda Ambulatory Care Center in Redlands with local veterans and administrators to learn more about the facility and to discuss veteran health care in the Inland Empire. Rep. Aguilar also attended the Ribbon Cutting Ceremony for the health center’s opening. “We need to do everything we can to ensure our veterans have access to timely and quality health care, so I’m glad to see increased services for Inland Empire veterans through the opening of the Ambulatory Care Center,” said Rep. Aguilar. The facility will offer health care services including mental health, primary care, physical medicine and rehabilitation, a women’s clinic and limited lab and imaging services. The center will officially begin seeing patients on Wednesday, October 12, 2016. For additional information, please visit https://www.lomalinda.va.gov/. Supporting Inland Empire veterans and improving federal resources for veterans and their families are Rep. Aguilar’s top priorities. Just last month he introduced new legislation to address accountability and responsiveness at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). His bill was inspired by conversations with members of his Veterans Advisory Board and Inland Empire veterans who’ve sought assistance with the VA through his office. Rep. Aguilar has also worked with his colleagues on both sides of the aisle to put veterans back to work, improve transparency and accountability at the VA, and to help reduce suicide rates among female veterans. Rep. Aguilar’s bill can be read in full here.
10.05.2016	Last month, Rep. Pete Aguilar joined Hardy and Sonietta Brown of San Bernardino for the opening of the Smithsonian National Museum of African American History and Culture in Washington, D.C. The opening ceremony on Saturday, September 24th included speeches by President Barack Obama and civil rights leader and Congressman John Lewis. Ruth Bonners, the daughter of a former slave, rang the Freedom Bell with her granddaughter, the president and the first lady. The Freedom Bell is from the Williamsburg First Baptist Church and is believed to be the first black Baptist church in the United States, founded in 1776. “I’m grateful for the opportunity to bear witness to such a historic event. The Smithsonian National Museum of African American History and Culture is a sobering and emotional reflection of the African American experience,” said Rep. Aguilar. He added, “I’m glad to have been able to attend the opening ceremony and visit the museum with Hardy and Sonietta, and hope more Inland Empire residents will travel to our nation’s capital to do the same.” Hardy Brown II, a small business owner in San Bernardino and Trustee on the San Bernardino County Board of Education, reflected, “This is one of the historical highlights of my life journey, to learn more about the amazing resilience of African Americans and our contributions in the United States of America.” The Smithsonian Institution includes 19 museums and galleries, nine research facilities and the National Zoological Park. The National Museum of African American History and Culture is the newest museum, and explores the culture, legacy and history of African American life. Due to the high number of visitors, passes are required to visit the museum. For those planning trips in October, November or December, same day in-person passes are available on a first-come, first-serve basis beginning at 9:15AM. Visitors are limited to 4 passes per person. For those planning trips in January, February or March, advanced passes can be accessed here. Additional ticketing information can be found here.
10.03.2016	Yesterday, Rep. Pete Aguilar authored an editorial for the San Bernardino Sun, highlighting the need to improve accountability and veteran services at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). Rep. Aguilar argues that federal agencies must do a better job to improve resources and support networks for veterans. He cites his latest bill, the VA Accountability for Location of Records (VALOR) Act, as an important step to help improve accountability and responsiveness at the VA. Veterans submit record requests every day, some of which are related to medical histories, and are documents that cannot afford to be delayed. The bill would require the VA to provide a requested record related to a veteran’s claims, military service or medical records within 14 days of the request being received. The bill also stipulates that should the VA be unable to complete the request within that time frame, the agency must inform the veteran, explain the reason for the delay and within 10 days provide an estimated date for when the record request will be completed. Since taking office last year, Rep. Aguilar has prioritized helping Inland Empire veterans get the resources and assistance they need. He’s been a fierce advocate for increased funding for the HUD-VASH program to support housing vouchers for veterans, and last year met with VA Secretary Robert McDonald to discuss veteran homelessness in San Bernardino County. Rep. Aguilar established a Veterans Advisory Board, which he meets with regularly and he has also worked with fellow Inland Empire Representative Paul Cook (R-Apple Valley) to help put veterans back to work. The full editorial can be read online in the San Bernardino Sun, Inland Valley Daily Bulletin and the Redlands Daily Facts.
09.28.2016	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar announced that the Department of Justice (DOJ) has allocated an additional $500,000 to the State of California for San Bernardino County to defray costs incurred by state and local agencies from law enforcement’s response to the Inland Regional Center terror attack on December 2, 2015. This is the second installment of federal funds to recover costs incurred from the response to the attack, which totals $1,000,000 for Fiscal Year 2016. “I’m glad to see federal funds come back to our community to help local law enforcement recoup the costs suffered from the heroic response to the terror attack on December 2nd. Chief Burguan and Sheriff McMahon have been remarkable advocates for our community in the aftermath of the attack and have been a source of strength for our region,” said Rep. Aguilar. He added, “The federal government has an important responsibility to help localities like San Bernardino County that have endured extraordinary emergency situations like this, so I’m pleased to see that help is on the way as our region continues to recover.” San Bernardino Police Chief Jarrod Burguan responded, “Myself, along with the City of San Bernardino very much appreciates our federal partners that have continued to show their support to our community.” San Bernardino County Sheriff John McMahon added, “In these unforeseen incidents, the financial impact is extensive. We are grateful for the expeditious assistance provided by DOJ in the financial recovery process. We are appreciative for the continuous efforts of Congressman Aguilar, and his staff, to ensure this reimbursement.” Representative Ken Calvert (R-Corona), who has also been instrumental in helping to access federal funds commented, “The San Bernardino terror attack is a grave reminder that terrorists ultimate goal is to kill Americans at home. I’m grateful that the DOJ has recognized the importance of supporting our local law enforcement agencies by awarding this deserved funding to offset the enormous costs incurred by local law enforcement as they bravely responded to the devastating attack in our region last December. This grant recognizes the federal obligation to help make local communities whole for responding to a federal responsibility. I will continue to work to ensure that local agencies are properly reimbursed as they protect our region.” The grant awarded by the DOJ is to help reimburse state and local agencies that were involved in the response to the terror attack at the Inland Regional Center on December 2nd. Reimbursements from the federal funds will go toward overtime and regular salary costs. This is the second DOJ grant awarded this year, bringing the federal reimbursement total to $1,000,000 for Fiscal Year 2016. In March, Reps. Aguilar and Calvert sent a formal request to the House Appropriations Committee, asking that federal funds be allocated through the DOJ to support programs for localities like San Bernardino recover costs sustained from extraordinary emergency events like the terror attack on December 2nd. Their formal request can be read in full here. The DOJ’s latest announcement of federal funds to help San Bernardino County agencies can be found here.
09.27.2016	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar announced that the United States Department of Labor (DOL) has granted Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) to workers who were laid off as a result of the Colton Ashley Furniture facility closure. Trade Adjustment Assistance is a federal program that offers employment services through training, counseling, income support and more for American workers who have been adversely affected by foreign competition. Rep. Pete Aguilar advocated for support for these workers, and earlier this month sent a letter of support to U.S. Labor Secretary Thomas Perez for a TAA petition filed by the State of California Economic Development Department (EDD) on behalf of the displaced workers. “Our region is still fighting its way back from the Great Recession, which has made these job losses particularly painful for Inland Empire residents. Over 800 workers – and their families – were affected when the Colton Ashley Furniture facility closed, so to be able to tell these folks that help is on the way is crucial,” said Rep. Aguilar. He added, “This is an important first step and I look forward to working with our leaders at every level to make sure San Bernardino County workers have the resources they need to get back on their feet.” The Department of Labor concluded that a significant number of employees were partially or completely terminated from Ashley Furniture, and that jobs were indeed shipped overseas, as indicated in the EDD’s petition that was filed on September 8th. Ashley Furniture workers in Colton who were laid off on or after September 7, 2015 will be eligible to apply for TAA benefits. Workers will be eligible for training that can include apprenticeship programs, on-the-job training, GED preparation, post-secondary education, English as a Second Language, literacy and math, among other things. They will also be eligible for unemployment benefits and Trade Readjustment Allowances (TRA) while participating in training, employment and case management services, and more. Additional benefits information can be found here. Eligible Ashley Furniture workers can apply for TAA benefits at an American Job Center (AJC). You can find nearby AJCs by visiting https://www.careeronestop.org/ReEmployment/ or by calling 1-877-USA-JOBS (1-877-872-5627). Rep. Aguilar has been a relentless advocate for employees affected by the Ashley Furniture closure, following up as recently as last week with the Department of Labor with regard to the EDD’s TAA petition. His office has been working with the San Bernardino County Workforce Development Board and the City of Colton to support displaced workers with jobs fairs and additional employment information. Additionally, Rep. Aguilar voted in favor of the Trade Adjustment Assistance and Reauthorization Act of 2015 that extended these benefits, which passed the House in a larger trade package and was signed into law on June 29, 2015. Rep. Aguilar’s letter of support can be read here, and the Department of Labor’s official announcement can be found here.
09.26.2016	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar announced that the United States Army awarded an $82,490,177 contract to Gentex Corporation, with work to be performed at its Rancho Cucamonga facility. The contract is for the Joint Service Aircrew Mask for Joint Strike Fighter (JSAM-JSF), which provides respiratory protection to U.S. and allied pilots while flying JSF F-35 aircraft. “Gentex plays an important role in the Inland Empire economy and in the United States’ national security. Their ability to engage our federal economy and to provide the gear to keep our brave service members safe is a point of pride for our region,” said Rep. Aguilar. “Gentex is proud to contribute to the JSF program and to the Inland Empire economy,” said Robert McCay, vice president aircrew systems, Gentex Corporation. “Our participation in the JSF program continues our over 45-year partnership with the U.S. government, helping them bring the most advanced solutions to American and allied forces to ensure peace and freedom around the world.” Rep. Aguilar has toured Gentex’s Rancho Cucamonga facility and last year participated in a joint Gentex and Lockheed Martin JSF F-35 Cockpit Demonstrator event. Rep. Aguilar sits on the House Armed Services Committee and Subcommittees on Emerging Threats and Capabilities and Strategic Forces. He is also a member of the F-35 Caucus. Earlier this year, Rep. Aguilar hosted a procurement workshop with representatives from the Department of Defense for Inland Empire businesses interested in learning more about the defense manufacturing supply chain.
09.23.2016	Last week, Rep. Pete Aguilar wrote a letter to U.S. Department of Labor Secretary Thomas Perez advocating for federal assistance for the 840 employees laid off as a result of the Colton Ashley Furniture facility closure. In an official letter to Secretary Perez, Rep. Aguilar offered his full-fledged support for the petition filed by the State of California Economic Development Department (EDD) on behalf of the displaced workers with the U.S. Department of Labor, which requests federal employment assistance through the Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) program. Trade Adjustment Assistance is a federal program that offers employment services through counseling, on-the-job training, and more for American workers who have been adversely affected by foreign competition. Rep. Aguilar’s letter advocated for Ashley Furniture workers to receive federal assistance if the Department of Labor finds that workers were impacted by jobs being shipped overseas to Vietnam, as the TAA petition indicates. Rep. Aguilar followed up earlier this week with the Department of Labor with regard to the TAA petition, and his office has been working with the City of Colton and the San Bernardino County Workforce Development Board to help displaced workers find employment. Neil Nisperos with the Inland Valley Daily Bulletin has the story, which can be read in full here.
09.21.2016	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar introduced H.R. 6078, the VA Accountability for Location of Records (VALOR) Act, which requires the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to complete record requests for veterans within 14 days, or explain the reason why the records will be delayed. Rep. Aguilar was inspired to write the bill following conversations with members of his Veterans Advisory Board and with Inland Empire veterans who have reached out to his office after struggling to access these documents from the VA. “Our service members put their lives on the line each and every day, and for that, our nation has an obligation to empower them with the resources they need to succeed when they return. Right now, we are not living up to that promise. One of the most common issues veterans have approached me with relates to accessing medical or service records,” said Rep. Aguilar. He added, “These record requests are essential to helping veterans get the care they need to live healthy and happy lives, and to delay that information is absolutely unacceptable. We can and must do better by our veterans, so I’m glad to be able to take a step forward as we work to make federal programs work efficiently for all veterans.” Commenting on Rep. Aguilar’s bill, Sgt. Dory Habachy of San Bernardino said, “I’m happy to see Representative Aguilar taking action to reduce wait times and improve accountability at the VA. I tried to get copies of my medical record for over a year before I went to my congressman for help. It shouldn’t have to be that difficult. Veterans deserve better and I’m glad that Representative Aguilar is taking the lead on this important issue.” Richard Valdez, Legislative Director for the Disabled American Veterans, Department of California and a retired Marine who served in the Vietnam War stated, “I applaud and support Congressman Pete Aguilar's initiative to improve the VA's responsiveness and accountability with respect to veterans’ requests for information and/or claims records they seek for other purposes; this is in line with the VA's efforts to improve veterans’ experiences. The congressman's bill, the VA Accountability for Location of Records Act, is in line with reforming the VA's culture with transparency and real accountability.” The VALOR Act requires the VA to provide a requested record related to a veteran’s claims, military service, or medical records within 14 days of the request being received. If the VA is not capable of completing the request within the 14-day time frame, the VA is required to inform the individual, explain the reason for the delay, and within 10 days provide an estimate for when the record request will be fulfilled. Rep. Aguilar has been a consistent advocate for veterans, from establishing a Veterans Advisory Board to consult on issues including employment, homelessness and health care; to supporting legislation to reduce the VA backlog. Rep. Aguilar also voted for the VA Accountability Act, which helps reform the VA’s broken disability appeals process and helps end bonuses for VA workers who do not do their jobs to properly serve American veterans. Rep. Aguilar will continue working with his colleagues on both sides of the aisle to make sure federal agencies are efficient and effective in serving our nation’s veterans. The VALOR Act can be read in full here.
09.13.2016	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar hosted a panel at the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute’s annual conference, entitled Homeland Security: Community Readiness Strategies for the Latino Community. The discussion, which coincided with National Preparedness Month and Hispanic Heritage Month, focused on strengthening communication between law enforcement, schools and hospitals in Latino communities so municipalities are prepared for extraordinary emergency situations, including natural disasters like earthquakes and wildfires, or man-made situations like the attack at the Inland Regional Center. Rep. Aguilar moderated the panel, which included Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) Associate Deputy Director, David Bowdich; Hispanic American Police Command Officers Association Executive Director, Anthony Chapa; U.S. Department of Homeland Security Assistant Secretary for State and Local Law Enforcement, Heather Fong; U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Deputy Assistant Secretary for Minority Health Assistant Secretary Director, Dr. Nadine Gracia; and San Bernardino County Fire Department Chief, Mark Hartwig. “Efficient communication is critical during extraordinary emergency situations, as we saw during the attack at the Inland Regional Center. It’s because of quality training and effective communication between our law enforcement, first responders and medical personnel that more lives weren’t lost that day,” said Rep. Aguilar. He added, “Today’s summit was important because it brought together local and national representatives to share best practices about preparedness, particularly in places like the Inland Empire where linguistic barriers may arise.” San Bernardino County Fire Department Chief Mark Hartwig said, “Today’s panel allowed us to come together and talk about how we can work within our communities to develop plans and always be ready. San Bernardino County Fire already has important resources in place, which can be found on our website at SBCFire.org or Ready.gov. I’m glad we had a platform to share these tools and connect with other agencies about preparedness.” During the 90 minute panel, Rep. Aguilar and summit participants discussed preparedness training for first responders, the importance of community relationships between local agencies, access to multilingual training resources, and the need to foster relationships between localities that have experienced similar situations. Rep. Aguilar remains committed to working with leaders at every level of government to ensure San Bernardino County has the resources it needs to train and prepare first responders and local agencies in the event of an emergency.
09.06.2016	Today, Representative Pete Aguilar called on House Republicans to prioritize legislation that would reduce gun violence and allocate necessary funds to combat the threat of Zika as legislators return from a seven-week break. House Republicans adjourned for the summer recess at the end of July without addressing either of the critical issues affecting San Bernardino families and Americans across the nation. “House Republicans’ inaction on these serious issues is unforgivable. We cannot ignore the escalating violence in our neighborhoods and the health threats growing in our communities. We have solutions here that are ready to go—it’s time for Congress to act,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “After a seven-week break, we should hope that House Republicans are finally ready to work. We cannot afford to wait any longer while House Republicans play political games—there are lives at stake.” According to the Gun Violence Archive (GVA), between Memorial Day and Labor Day, more than 4,100 Americans were killed from gun-related homicides and incidents, and there was a reported daily average of 44 deaths and 93 injuries. This year alone, there have been 47 homicides in the City of San Bernardino, which surpassed last year’s figure of 44 that included the 14 people killed during the December 2nd Inland Regional Center attack. Before adjourning for the summer recess in July, House Republicans refused to pass a comprehensive funding bill to adequately combat Zika, which has now left the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) strapped for funds to address the growing threat. As of last week, there were over 2,700 reported cases of Zika in the United States, which includes over 600 pregnant women. Several weeks ago, scientists found mosquitos carrying the virus in Miami, which resulted in a historic CDC travel warning to those traveling in the area. This summer, mosquitos capable of carrying Zika were found in Colton. Nearly 200 people in California have been diagnosed with Zika, including 30 people in San Bernardino County. Rep. Aguilar has been a fierce advocate for commonsense solutions to end gun violence and was a resounding voice for action during the House sit-in to demand votes on related legislation. In June, Rep. Aguilar also visited the San Bernardino County Vector Control Facility, which monitors mosquitoes in the area that may be carriers of the Zika virus and West Nile virus. He has been urging House Republicans to prioritize concerns like gun violence and Zika, which are affecting America’s working families in San Bernardino County and throughout the nation.
08.02.2016	Last week, Rep. Pete Aguilar announced that he will host his 2016 Senior Fair at the Jessie Turner Community Center in Fontana this Friday from 9:00AM to 12:00PM. Seniors will be connected with representatives who can help with Social Security and Medicare assistance, as well as veterans benefits and free health screenings. Lunch will be provided and no RSVP is required. The Redlands Daily Facts highlighted Rep. Aguilar’s 2016 Senior Fair, which can be read in full here. For additional information, please contact the San Bernardino office at 909-890-4445.
07.28.2016	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar announced that the United States Department of Transportation (DOT) awarded the San Bernardino Associated Governments (SANBAG) $8,678,312 in funding through a Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) Grant to help construct the Redlands Passenger Rail Project (RPRP). Rep. Aguilar has continually supported construction of the RPRP, beginning with his time leading the countywide ballot measure (Measure 'I') as campaign manager, to his service as Councilmember and Mayor of Redlands serving on the SANBAG Board of Directors, and now in his role as the region’s congressman. “The Redlands Passenger Rail Project is an important investment for our community,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “The RPRP will help spur economic development, ease traffic congestion and pollution and will make daily transportation for San Bernardino County families safer and more efficient. I’m glad to see this grant come through and commend SANBAG and our local leaders for their continued activism that helped make this possible.” The Redlands Passenger Rail Project is a nine-mile rail extension that offers a new commuting option while introducing an environmentally sustainable mode of transportation that creates reliable access to employment, education, recreation, cultural enrichment and health care centers. “We are thrilled that the USDOT sees the value in supporting key transportation improvements that enhance the quality of life for our residents,” SANBAG President Robert Lovingood said. “This new passenger rail service represents one of the solutions to the transportation challenges we face in a fast-growing region.” “This is exciting news for the rail project and certainly for the City of Redlands as we move closer to making this long-envisioned project a reality,” said Mayor Paul Foster. “Once completed the rail line will have tremendous benefits for Redlands residents, for commuters and for local businesses as customers find a quick and convenient way to travel into the City. As always, we appreciate Congressman Aguilar’s continued advocacy for our community.” “I'm pleased to congratulate SANBAG on receiving the TIGER grant from the U.S. Department of Transportation to provide a new passenger rail service through the cities of Redlands and San Bernardino," California Assemblymember Cheryl Brown said. "This project will enhance mobility, improve air quality and boost our economy by creating thousands of jobs. I commend Raymond Wolfe and his team for their innovative vision and commitment to advancing infrastructure improvements throughout our region.” “This grant recognizes the great work we are advancing in San Bernardino County to provide viable options that connect people to destinations within their community and across the entire Southern California region,” James Ramos, Chair of the San Bernardino County Board of Supervisors, said. “It is exciting to be a part of the emergence of San Bernardino County.” Rep. Aguilar has been a leading voice in the fight for federal funds to finance the infrastructure project, which will run through the cities of Redlands and San Bernardino. Earlier this year, Rep. Aguilar advocated for the project to U.S. Department of Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx in a formal letter of support and later personally advocated for the project in a conversation with the Secretary. Rep. Aguilar highlighted the economic opportunities that the Redlands Passenger Rail will produce for the Inland Empire, including the projected 3,000 jobs RPRP will create. It will also establish an environmentally sustainable transportation option for thousands of San Bernardino County residents and businesses. Investing in transportation and infrastructure is one of Rep. Aguilar’s top priorities and plays a significant role in his Jobs Plan—his strategy to get the Inland Empire economy back on track. The letter of support can be read in full here and Rep. Aguilar’s Jobs Plan can be found here.
07.27.2016	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar announced that he will hold his 2016 Senior Fair on Friday, August 5th from 9:00AM to 12:00PM at the Jessie Turner Community Center in Fontana. This is the second senior fair Rep. Aguilar has held since taking office, following an event last year that hosted dozens of vendors and drew over three hundred Inland Empire seniors. “Our seniors deserve the very best we can offer, from assistance with Social Security or Medicare claims, to access to food program information and health education. That’s why I hosted a senior fair last year, which helped hundreds of local seniors get appropriate information and support,” said Rep. Aguilar. He added, “I’m glad to host another fair this year so we can continue helping residents in our community get the necessary resources to live healthy and happy lives.” Rep. Aguilar’s 2016 Senior Fair will be held at the Jessie Turner Community Center, which is located at 15556 Summit Avenue in Fontana, California 92336. Admission is free, no RSVP is required and lunch will be provided. For more information about the event, please contact Rep. Aguilar’s office at 909-890-4445 or visit his event posting here. What: 2016 Senior Fair hosted by Rep. Pete Aguilar When: Friday, August 5th, 9:00AM to 12:00PM Where: Jessie Turner Community Center 15556 Summit Avenue Fontana, CA 92336
07.26.2016	Last week, Rep. Pete Aguilar hosted his Inland Empire Jobs Fair, the second jobs fair he’s held since taking office last year. Rep. Aguilar hosted over sixty different employers and employment service providers, which connected with more than four hundred Inland Empire job seekers. “Local events like this are critical to connecting San Bernardino County residents with the resources they need to find good-paying jobs,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “We had a great range of employers and service providers, from Uber to the San Bernardino County Sheriff’s Department to SAC Health Systems to the San Bernardino County Workforce Development Board. I’m grateful to our local employers and organizations that made the jobs fair possible and I look forward to continuing events like this so we can work together as a community to get the Inland Empire economy moving again.” Anthony Victoria with Inland Empire Community News and Sandra Emerson with the Redlands Daily Facts both highlighted Rep. Aguilar’s jobs fair, which can be read here and here.
07.22.2016	Last week, Rep. Pete Aguilar authored an editorial for El Chicano, highlighting his job-creating initiatives and his commitment to supporting Inland Empire middle-class families. The op-ed also discusses the importance of constituent services events, including Rep. Aguilar’s upcoming Inland Empire Jobs Fair, which will be held this Friday, July 22nd at the Frank Gonzales Community Center in Colton. The full editorial can be read in El Chicano or online here.
07.18.2016	Last week, the Los Angeles News Group Editorial Board authored an opinion article in support of Representative Pete Aguilar’s latest bill, the Grace Period Alleviation (GPA) Act. The editorial praised Rep. Aguilar’s college affordability bill, calling it, “…a sensible approach to easing the debt burden on recent college graduates.” The bill would support recent graduates by extending their loan repayment grace period, eliminating interest payments during the grace period for students with subsidized loans, and allowing students to refinance their loans under certain circumstances. The editorial can be read in full here.
07.15.2016	Yesterday, Representative Pete Aguilar testified before the United States International Trade Commission in support of Searing Industries, a Rancho Cucamonga steel manufacturer that has been adversely impacted by unfair trade practices. Rep. Aguilar and Richard Searing, Executive Vice President of Operations at Searing Industries, testified before the United States International Trade Commission, requesting that the commission make an affirmative decision in the case on structural tubing product imports from Korea, Turkey and Mexico. An affirmative decision would find that imported steel pipes and tubes subsidized by Korea, Mexico and Turkey create unfair competition and hurt American steel manufacturers. This decision would allow the final antidumping and countervailing duty margins be put into place, providing remedial relief to the industry and its employees. Earlier today, the US Department of Commerce issued final affirmative antidumping and countervailing determinations against imports from all three countries. “These unfair practices only contribute to the precipitous decline of American manufacturing in general and steel tube and steel production in particular. This is why I believe that trade must be conducted fairly and that the trade laws should provide relief to producers injured by these trade distorting practices. When trade remedies are put into place the affected industry and its employees are provided with an ability to recover and compete – and after all that is what we strive for – an open and level playing field in which to compete,” Rep. Aguilar testified. He added, “I believe in free trade in a global economy. But American manufacturers can’t be forced to compete on a playing field that’s tilted in favor of foreign competitors.” In his testimony, Richard Searing detailed the financial hurdles Searing Industries has navigated due to unfair trade practices and stated, “It has been amazing to us that in 2014 and late 2015 we were not only getting hurt by structural tubing imports in the West Coast region at ridiculous prices, but we were also seeing imports arrive at both West Coast ports and Houston, absorbing the high truck freight costs and undercutting us in the Northern Rockies.” Rep. Aguilar has been a leading voice on protecting businesses and workers threatened by or directly impacted by unfair foreign competition. Last year, Rep. Aguilar introduced the Displaced Jobs Relief Act, which increases authorization of funds for the Trade Adjustment Assistance for Firms program (TAA-F). The TAA-F program offers technical assistance to help businesses that have been negatively impacted by trade. The Displaced Jobs Relief Act can be read here.
07.14.2016	Today, in a letter to House Speaker Paul Ryan, Representative Pete Aguilar urged the Speaker to withhold adjournment of the House of Representatives for the August recess until votes are allowed on two bipartisan bills that address the gun violence epidemic. The bills in question – Denying Firearms and Explosives to Dangerous Terrorists Act and the Public Safety and Second Amendment Rights Protection Act – are bipartisan measures that would prevent suspected terrorists from accessing guns or explosives and would expand background checks to keep guns out of the hands of domestic abusers, criminals and the dangerously mentally ill. “While we may disagree on the approach, we share a desire to stop the violence plaguing so many of our cities, and we want our communities to be safe for our children. We cannot refuse to take action; we have a moral obligation to our constituents and to our country to at least try to do something to reduce gun deaths,” Rep. Aguilar wrote. He added, “I believe we can uphold the Second Amendment and make our neighborhoods safer – these two objectives are not mutually exclusive… I request that you withhold adjourning session for the August recess until votes are allowed on these two bipartisan bills so we can do our part in addressing the gun violence epidemic. ” Yesterday, Rep. Aguilar spoke on the House floor to urge Speaker Ryan to allow votes on the bills before adjourning for the August recess. Rep. Aguilar has been a relentless advocate for commonsense solutions to end gun violence. His letter to Speaker Ryan can be read here.
07.12.2016	Last week, Representative Pete Aguilar introduced his latest bill, H.R. 5622, the Grace Period Alleviation (GPA) Act. The bill would help ease the financial burden on students by extending their loan repayment grace period, eliminating interest payments during the grace period for students with subsidized loans, and allowing students to refinance their loans under certain circumstances. Rep. Aguilar’s own struggle with college affordability inspired the bill. Beau Yarbrough with the San Bernardino Sun has the full story here.
07.05.2016	Today, Representative Pete Aguilar announced that two of his bills were included in House Democrats’ updated Make It In America plan, which is their economic prosperity plan and focuses on supporting American entrepreneurs and increasing technological innovation. Rep. Aguilar’s On-the-Job Training Tax Credit Act and the Displaced Jobs Relief Act were included in the economic agenda, which was released last week. “My top priority has always been growing the Inland Empire’s middle class,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “Bills like the On-the-Job Training Tax Credit Act and the Displaced Jobs Relief Act were ideas that emerged from conversations I had with residents, business owners, and local labor leaders looking for solutions to problems that have been affecting San Bernardino County families for years. We must do more to help get our economy back on track, and I believe these bills will play an important role in allowing us to do just that.” House Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer (D-Maryland) said, “In order to help more of our businesses and workers make it in America, Congress must take steps to break down barriers to manufacturing. Rep. Aguilar’s bill – the Displaced Jobs Relief Act of 2015 – would help do so by increasing funding for trade adjustment assistance for firms. I will continue to work with Rep. Aguilar to advance his bill as part of the new Make It In America, and I thank him for his work to expand job creation here at home.” The Make It In America plan was originally introduced in 2010 by House Democratic Leadership as a plan for encouraging economic growth and supporting American jobs. Since its introduction, over a dozen bills have been signed into law that address a number of important economic areas, including loans for small businesses, eliminating tax loopholes that allow companies to ship jobs overseas, and training skilled workers. The new Make It In America plan can be read in full here. Rep. Aguilar introduced the On-the-Job Training Tax Credit Act in May 2015 and the Displaced Jobs Relief Act in December 2015. The bills create a temporary tax credit for employers to use to help pay for training new hires and increase funding for the trade adjustment assistance for firms (TAA-F) program, which helps businesses that have been negatively impacted by foreign competition. The bills can be read here and here. Since taking office, Rep. Aguilar has introduced five bills that incentivize skills training, help small businesses expand, assist firms impacted by flawed trade deals, waive burdensome fees on Inland Empire entrepreneurs and open communication channels for local workforce development boards to communicate with job seekers. These bills were drawn from conversations Rep. Aguilar held with community members at his Jobs Roundtable Discussions last year, which led to the creation of his Jobs Plan that can be read in full here. Both of these bills, in addition to the Small Business Jobs Act, were also included in the New Democrats Coalition’s American Prosperity Agenda, which outlines similar principles for spurring economic growth and creating good-paying American jobs. The American Prosperity Agenda can be read in full here.
06.29.2016	Today, Representative Pete Aguilar joined members of the community for a press conference to call for commonsense gun safety reform following last week’s sit-in on the House floor. “I heard overwhelmingly from my constituents, both on the phone and through social media, that they want a vote on commonsense gun reform,” said Aguilar, reflecting on last week’s events. He added, “If House Republicans want to vote against commonsense reform, then that is on them to answer to their constituents, but refusing to even allow a vote is a despicable act of cowardice and violates their basic obligation to serve their districts.” Gail Howard of Redlands attended the press conference on Wednesday. Howard’s son Jordan was severely injured and two of his friends were killed by gun violence in 2011. She commented, “I’m tired of burying young ones, I’m tired of all of this…It’s time for us to come together, stop the bickering of Republicans and Democrats and find a solution.” Rep. Aguilar has been a strong advocate for commonsense reforms to reduce gun violence since taking office last year, and before that when he served as the Mayor of Redlands. He joined House Democrats in a sit-in protest last week to call on House Republicans to allow votes on two commonsense, bipartisan bills that would keep guns out of the hands of suspected terrorists and expand background checks to cover all gun purchases.
06.28.2016	Yesterday, Representative Pete Aguilar (D-San Bernardino) announced that the Department of Justice (DOJ) will allocate $500,000 to the State of California for San Bernardino County to help offset the cost of the response to the terrorist attack at the Inland Regional Center on December 2, 2015. The DOJ awarded the funds in the form of an Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant for Fiscal Year 2016. The funds will be distributed to affected localities through the California Board of State and Community Corrections. The grant will be used to reimburse state and local agencies for overtime and regular salary costs related to the heroic response by San Bernardino County law enforcement and other first responders on December 2, 2015. The funding was identified in a meeting with San Bernardino Police Chief Jarrod Burguan and San Bernardino County Sheriff John McMahon, who were in Washington to advocate for assistance in covering the cost of the response to the attack. Earlier this year, Rep. Aguilar and Rep. Ken Calvert (R-Corona) submitted a formal request to the House Appropriations Committee to allocate funds to the DOJ to support programs to help cities and towns like San Bernardino recover costs incurred from extraordinary emergency events like the attack at the Inland Regional Center. Beau Yarbrough with the San Bernardino Sun covered the announcement, which can be read in full here.
06.24.2016	Yesterday, Rep. Pete Aguilar honored Fontana High School student Faith Antillon in Washington, D.C. in recognition of her achievements in the arts. Faith won first place in this year’s Congressional Art Competition for California’s 31st Congressional District. The art competition, also known as the Artistic Discovery Contest, is a national art challenge hosted by congressional districts across the country. Faith represents California’s 31st Congressional District with her submission entitled “Undivided.” Faith participated in a ceremony at the U.S. Capitol that honored all art competition winners from across country. Her artwork is currently on display in the U.S. Capitol, where it will remain for one year. “I’m glad I was able to join Faith and her family to celebrate such a wonderful achievement,” said Rep. Aguilar. He added, “Her success underscores the importance of investing in the arts so more Inland Empire students have the support they need to build careers and futures inspired by their passions.” In April, Rep. Aguilar held an awards ceremony and reception in San Bernardino for the competition’s entrants and their families. California’s 31st Congressional District had over sixty submissions. As the winner of the Congressional Art Competition, Faith received free airfare to Washington, D.C. from Southwest Airlines and was awarded $1,000 by Time Warner Cable for hotel accommodations and expenses during her stay. For more information about the Congressional Art Competition, please visit Aguilar.house.gov.
06.23.2016	On Thursday, Rep. Pete Aguilar issued the following statement in response to the Supreme Court’s ruling on United States v. Texas, which addressed President Obama’s constitutional authority to expand the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program and create the Deferred Action for Parents of Americans and Lawful Permanent Residents (DAPA) program. The Supreme Court issued a 4-4 ruling, leaving in place the lower court decision that blocked the executive action. “Today’s ruling was disappointing, but the fight for immigration reform goes on. The president’s executive actions are commonsense steps to address our broken immigration system while we wait for Congress to take action on comprehensive immigration reform. This ruling is not the end; it is a disheartening setback but the Supreme Court has not ruled on the merits of the actions and we will continue to fight for reforms that will keep hardworking immigrant families together. Senate Republicans’ refusal to hold confirmation hearings to fill the vacant seat on the Supreme Court has shown us the dangerous consequences of their continued and purposeful inaction.” Rep. Aguilar has been a fierce proponent for comprehensive immigration reform with a pathway to citizenship. Earlier this month he hosted an Immigration Story Share at California State University, San Bernardino’s DREAMers Resource and Success Center, where students shared their personal stories of immigration. Rep. Aguilar also convened an Immigration Roundtable Discussion earlier this year; and last year he was lauded as a leader in the fight to keep the Department of Homeland Security operational when House Republicans attempted to shut it down over President Obama’s executive actions on immigration.
06.21.2016	On Friday, Rep. Pete Aguilar participated in a Mosquito Vector Control Ride Along with the San Bernardino County Department of Public Health, where he visited the San Bernardino County Vector Control Facility. The facility monitors mosquitoes in the area that can be carriers of the Zika virus and West Nile virus. Rep. Aguilar took a tour of the facility with an overview of the program, visited a potential mosquito breeding source at Meadowbrook Park in San Bernardino, and examined a chicken flock used by San Bernardino County to detect the West Nile virus in local mosquito populations. As the threat of Zika grows, Rep. Aguilar has called on House Republicans to allocate the White House’s full request in emergency funding to prepare and respond to Zika domestically and internationally. Leticia Juarez with ABC 7 covered the event, which can be viewed in full here.
06.20.2016	On Saturday, Rep. Pete Aguilar honored Inland Empire students who will be attending U.S. Service Academies this fall. “There is no greater honor than to serve our nation, so to have the Inland Empire’s best and brightest representing our region at U.S. Service Academies across the country is a point of pride for our community,” said Rep. Aguilar. He added, “It’s inspiring to see such bravery and nobility in the rising generation, and I hope these young leaders will serve as role models to their fellow classmates who will walk in their footsteps next year.” For the class of 2020, seven students from California’s 31st Congressional District will attend U.S. Service Academies. Andrew Aldaz will attend the United States Military Academy at West Point; Wade Preciado will attend the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis; Garret Gwozdz will attend the United States Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs; Eric Kawecki will attend the United States Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs; Luke Andres will attend the United States Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs; Nicole Thompson will attend the United States Military Academy at West Point; and Hannah Nance will attend the United States Air Force Academy Preparatory School at Colorado Springs. To be considered for U.S. Service Academies, students require nominations. Rep. Aguilar is allowed to nominate up to ten students for each vacant academy slot allocated to California’s 31st Congressional District. Since taking office, Rep. Aguilar has hosted two Academy Day information sessions, where U.S. Service Academy representatives were present to answer questions on admission timeline, admission requirements and preparation, the application process, course loads and more. The application deadline for the class of 2021 is October 14, 2016. Students interested in applying can find additional information, including an application package, here or call Rep. Aguilar’s San Bernardino office at 909-890-4445. Rep. Aguilar is a member of the House Armed Services Committee and serves on the Strategic Forces and Emerging Threats and Capabilities Subcommittees. (Pictured from left to right: Ret. COL Frank Guevara, LT COL Ted Alejandre, Luke Andres, Eric Kawecki, Garret Gwozdz, Andrew Aldaz, Wade Preciado, LTC Caroline Morales and Rep. Pete Aguilar.)
06.17.2016	Yesterday, Rep. Pete Aguilar called on House Republicans to take action on commonsense reforms to keep guns out of the hands of suspected terrorists and expand background checks to cover all gun purchases, reprimanding his Republican colleagues for their continued inaction in the aftermath of the attacks in San Bernardino and Orlando. “We cannot afford to stand in silence when people are being massacred in bars; when coworkers are being slaughtered at their holiday parties; when churchgoers are murdered in their place of worship; and when first graders are assassinated in classrooms,” said Aguilar. He continued, “Just hours ago we heard from Senator Murphy that the other chamber has reached a bipartisan agreement to allow votes on two important gun safety measures… When will this chamber do the same? When will we work to address meaningful solutions rather than acting on recycled bills from months ago that do little to address the issue? I’ve said before that House Republicans’ most significant action to curb gun violence has been to hold moments of silence, and I was wrong. They have consistently and deliberately worked to prevent commonsense reform from even being discussed in this chamber. For that – they should be ashamed.” Rep. Aguilar has been a relentless voice for commonsense reform to end gun violence, supporting legislation to expand background checks, keep weapons out of the hands of suspected terrorists and to ban assault weapons. Prior to serving in Congress, Rep. Aguilar joined the Mayors Against Illegal Guns coalition when he was the Mayor of Redlands. Rep. Aguilar’s full remarks on the House floor can be viewed here.
06.16.2016	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar introduced his latest jobs bill, the Job Opportunity and Business Services Act (JOBS) Act. This is Rep. Aguilar’s latest bill to help put Inland Empire residents back to work and will open communication channels for Workforce Development Boards (WDB) to use federal resources to advertise their services, such as résumé building, job training and employment opportunities. Since WDBs are currently restricted from utilizing federal resources to communicate their services, this legislation will drastically help expand communication between those seeking employment and employers looking for workers. “As our region continues to fight its way back from the Great Recession, we need to explore every avenue to help put people back to work – that includes increasing communication between those looking for work and those looking to hire,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “This bill will help San Bernardino County and other communities experiencing similar economic hardships across the nation. We can and we must do more to help working families get their feet on the ground, and I believe this bill is an important step to help us do just that.” “The San Bernardino County Workforce Development Board appreciates all of the support and backing from Congressman Aguilar. He has a sound understanding of the needs of business and has worked hard to meet those needs and support our workforce development program,” said Sandy Harmsen, the Director of the San Bernardino County Workforce Development Board. Connecting San Bernardino County residents with job opportunities is Rep. Aguilar’s top priority. His latest bill comes on the heels of the announcement of his Inland Empire Jobs Fair, which will take place on July 22nd. Rep. Aguilar authored the JOBS Act after receiving feedback on the issue from Inland Empire community members and small business owners during his Jobs Roundtable Discussions last spring. Since taking office last year, Rep. Aguilar has been an advocate for creating good-paying jobs and supporting Inland Empire small businesses. In his first term, Rep. Aguilar introduced five bills to help get the local economy back on track, established a Small Business Advisory Board, hosted United States Small Business Administrator Maria Contreras-Sweet and released a Jobs Plan. The JOBS Act can be read in full here.
06.15.2016	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar announced that he will host an Inland Empire Jobs Fair on Friday, July 22nd from 9:00AM to 12:00PM at the Frank Gonzales Community Center in Colton. The jobs fair will connect job seekers with Inland Empire employers looking to hire. This is Rep. Aguilar’s second jobs fair. Last year he hosted a similar event that helped over forty residents find work in the community. “Putting residents back to work is my top priority,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “When I took office, I promised residents that I would work to get the Inland Empire economy back on track. To do this, we need to explore every opportunity. That means hosting jobs fairs, enacting smart legislation to support small businesses and investing in job training programs. I’m glad I can serve the community with this event and I look forward to continuing these kinds of projects in the future.” In his first term in office, Rep. Aguilar introduced legislation to support small businesses and encourage local job creation, established a Small Business Advisory Board, convened multiple jobs roundtables with local employers, hosted a community forum with United States Small Business Administrator Maria Contreras-Sweet and released a comprehensive Jobs Plan – his strategy for kick-starting the Inland Empire economy. Rep. Aguilar’s Inland Empire Jobs Fair will be held at the Frank Gonzales Community Center, which is located at 670 Colton Avenue in Colton, California 92324. For more information about the event, please contact Rep. Aguilar’s office at 909-890-4445 or visit his event posting here. WHAT: Inland Empire Jobs Fair hosted by Rep. Pete Aguilar WHEN: Friday, July 22nd, 9:00AM to 12:00PM WHERE: Frank Gonzales Community Center 670 Colton Avenue Colton, CA 92324
06.14.2016	Yesterday, Rep. Pete Aguilar authored an op-ed in the San Bernardino Sun highlighting the need to reform our nation’s broken immigration system. Rep. Aguilar called for an end to hateful rhetoric and a return to bipartisan action to solve our nation’s immigration crisis by enacting comprehensive immigration reform Rep. Aguilar has been a staunch supporter of comprehensive immigration reform that includes a pathway to citizenship. Last year, he fought Republican attempts to shut down the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) as a means to block the president’s executive action on immigration. He has signed four amicus curiae briefs in support of the Deferred Action of Childhood Arrivals (DACA) and the Deferred Action for Parents of Americans and Lawful Permanent Residents (DAPA) programs that are being considered by the Supreme Court. Most recently, Rep. Aguilar hosted an Immigration Story Share at California State University, San Bernardino, where local DREAMers told their personal stories and the difficulties they’ve encountered with our nation’s immigration system. The full editorial can be read in the San Bernardino Sun or online here.
06.13.2016	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar announced that the Housing Authority of the County of San Bernardino (HACSB) was awarded a $409,800 grant by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and the United States Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) through the Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing (HUD-VASH) program. With this additional grant funding, HACSB now has the ability to subsidize housing for 457 veterans. “We cannot stand by while our veterans – the brave men and women who risked their lives to protect our sovereignty – are abandoned and left to live on the streets,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “We have an obligation to help those who gave this country so much. I’m glad to see federal funds come back to the Inland Empire to help our veterans, and I will continue advocating on their behalf to ensure they have the resources they need and deserve to live healthy and productive lives.” “The overwhelming response from our Congressional leaders like Representative Aguilar and County supervisors in adding resources to accomplish this mission is nothing short of amazing. We have gone from more than 2,600 vets on the streets in our county a few years ago to less than 140 now thanks to the laudable teamwork of many,” said Daniel Nackerman, HACSB’s Executive Director. Rep. Aguilar has been a leader in the Inland Empire on combatting veteran homelessness and called on the House Appropriations Committee to allocate funding to the HUD-VASH program in both 2015 and 2016. Public letters detailing the requests can be read here and here. Last year, the HACSB was awarded $405,804 to support the housing vouchers for veterans, of which Rep. Aguilar advocated for strongly on the county’s behalf. Rep. Aguilar has also met with VA Secretary Robert McDonald and convened his Veterans Advisory Board last month to discuss methods for reducing veteran homelessness in the community. Rep. Aguilar is a member of the House Armed Services Committee, where he serves on the Subcommittees on Strategic Forces and Emerging Threats and Capabilities.
06.12.2016	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar (D-San Bernardino) issued the following statement in response to the mass shooting at Pulse nightclub in Orlando, Florida that killed at least 50 people and injured 53, making it the deadliest mass shooting in United States history: “We watched in horror as moviegoers were slaughtered in their seats. We wept when we learned that first graders were killed in their classrooms. We bowed our heads when we heard that church attendees were murdered in their place of worship. And we were left to feel helpless and broken when coworkers were massacred as they gathered for a holiday party. And the list goes on. As we reel from the catastrophic events in Orlando that targeted the LGBT community, we cannot move on or heal our communities by remaining complacent with the status quo. Guns – guns designed to kill efficiently and quickly – have no place on our streets. Americans should feel safe in their communities and be able to live without fear that terrorists could strike their neighborhoods at any moment because guns are too accessible to those who want to kill. The LGBT community has been forced to endure decades of violence and death, and for this heinous act to happen during a time when we celebrate their achievements and progress is utterly tragic. We can and we must do better – for Orlando, for San Bernardino and for us all.” Representative Pete Aguilar represents California’s 31st Congressional District, which includes the City of San Bernardino.
06.09.2016	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar released a video message in honor of LGBT Pride Month, which is celebrated during the month of June: “This June, we celebrate LGBT Pride Month and honor the incredible sacrifices made by individuals in the LGBT community that have pushed our nation forward. Over the past year, we’ve seen historic strides in the fight for equal rights, including the Supreme Court’s decision that made marriage equality the law of the land. However, with those strides, we’ve also been reminded that our work is far from over, which we saw recently in North Carolina’s prejudiced bathroom law that discriminates against members of the transgender community. And here in the House of Representatives, I was saddened to see Republicans vote down an amendment to bar federal contractors from discriminating against the LGBT community in hiring. While our nation has certainly taken steps forward in the fight for equality, our work goes on. As a member of the LGBT Equality Caucus, I remain committed as ever to advocating on behalf of the LGBT community and working to ensure that every American enjoys full equality under the law.” Rep. Aguilar’s message can be viewed in full here.
06.03.2016	Last night, Rep. Pete Aguilar hosted an Immigration Story Share at California State University, San Bernardino’s DREAMers Resource and Success Center. Rep. Aguilar held the forum to hear from students about their personal stories of immigration and their experiences navigating the immigration system. “I’m so grateful that these brave young men and women had the courage to stand up and share their stories with me,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “In a time where immigration reform has become so politicized, I think it was more important than ever that these students tell their personal stories and highlight what this is about—keeping families together and building stronger communities through tolerance and inclusivity.” Over a dozen students told their stories during the forum that was framed in an open mic setting. One of those students was Veronica Velasquez, who shared how her father has struggled to find work and that her mother works three different jobs as a nurse to provide for her family. She said that she too wants to work in the field of medicine, adding, “I want to give back to the country that has provided so much for me.” While telling her personal story, Maria Barragan-Arreguin explained that when people use discriminatory language and tell her to “go home” she can only respond with, “I can’t go home. I am already home.” Rep. Aguilar has been a fierce advocate for immigration reform with a pathway to citizenship. In April, Rep. Aguilar hosted an Immigration Roundtable Discussion that focused on how he can help the Inland Empire immigrant community. Last year, Rep. Aguilar was a resounding voice of support for the immigrant community against House Republicans’ attempts to shut down the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) over the president’s executive order on immigration. He has also called on DHS to end their expansion of the Family Detention Program of undocumented women and children. Rep. Aguilar has signed four amicus curiae briefs in support of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) and the Deferred Action for Parents of Americans and Lawful Permanent Residents (DAPA) programs, which are being considered by the Supreme Court this month. ###
06.02.2016	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar issued the following statement, reflecting on the San Bernardino community six months after the Inland Regional Center terrorist attack on December 2, 2015: “The past six months have been an incredibly difficult time for our region, but our people and our community have continued to show the nation the resiliency of our city. We were dealt an unimaginable tragedy that took 14 innocent lives, injured 22 and shook the Inland Empire to its core. As we continue to heal and move forward, today we pause to remember those who were taken from us, pray for their families, and give thanks to our brave first responders who stopped the violence that day and continue to work around the clock to keep our neighborhoods safe.” Since the devastating attack last December, Rep. Aguilar has been working closely with law enforcement and local, state and federal officials and agencies to help communities recover costs incurred from the emergency response to the attack. Rep. Aguilar represents California’s 31st congressional district, which includes the City of San Bernardino. Prior to serving in Congress, Rep. Aguilar served as the Mayor of Redlands.
06.01.2016	Yesterday, Rep. Pete Aguilar convened another meeting of his Veterans Advisory Board. The committee of veteran health care providers, local veterans and representatives from veteran assistance organizations met with Rep. Aguilar yesterday morning to discuss improving health care services for Inland Empire veterans. This was Rep. Aguilar’s third meeting with his Veterans Advisory Board. Previous meetings addressed employment opportunities and veteran homelessness, which resulted in immediate actions. Following his first two meetings, Rep. Aguilar passed an important piece of legislation that will help veterans use the skills they developed during their service to obtain commercial driver’s licenses to help secure transportation and logistics jobs, both of which are major Inland Empire industries. Rep. Aguilar also advocated for increased funding for housing vouchers to assist veterans, and the Housing Authority of the County of San Bernardino was recently rewarded over $400,000 from the federal government to support housing vouchers for veterans. “We need to make improvements to our health care system to make sure our veterans have access to quality and timely care – period. As we’ve seen in recent years, there have been serious problems that we need to address to make sure our veterans have the care they’ve earned and deserve,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “I’m grateful to our community members who joined me yesterday to plan how we can solve these issues and I look forward to continuing this work for Inland Empire veterans.” Improving health care for Inland Empire veterans has been one of Rep. Aguilar’s top priorities since taking office last year. He has supported a number of initiatives to address health care concerns, including the VA Accountability Act, which makes it easier to fire or demote Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) employees who fail to do their jobs and properly serve our nation’s veterans. Rep. Aguilar also cosponsored the Women Veterans Access to Quality Care Act, which requires VA medical facilities to meet gender-specific health care needs of female veterans, and he supported funding to reduce the VA backlog. Rep. Aguilar has also been a leader on combatting the startlingly high rate of suicide among female veterans by passing legislation to study the most effective ways to reduce this disturbing pattern. Rep. Aguilar serves on the House Armed Services Committee and on the Subcommittees on Strategic Forces and Emerging Threats and Capabilities. ###
05.26.2016	Yesterday, Pastor Joshua Beckley of the Ecclesia Christian Fellowship in San Bernardino delivered the Opening Prayer before the House of Representatives. Rep. Pete Aguilar honored Pastor Beckley afterwards with a brief address on the House floor. The full text of Pastor Beckley’s prayer can be read below: Our Father and our God, we pray for this session of Congress, in light of all that is going on in our world and the threats that face us as a Nation, that You would give clarity and thought and discernment as they follow their agenda today. I pray that You would endow them with wisdom and knowledge, with empathy, and compassion to determine the best course of action that would affect the greatest good for all who would be affected by their decisions today. I pray that they would be mindful of our Pledge of Allegiance that declares that we are one nation under God and that You are the ultimate leader of this Nation. The Scriptures remind us that righteousness exalts a nation, but sin is a reproach to any people. Bless this 114th session of the House of Representatives. In the mighty Name of Jesus, we pray. Amen. Recognizing Pastor Beckley’s dedication to the Inland Empire Community, Rep. Aguilar said, “In the aftermath of the horrific tragedy at the Inland Regional Center in San Bernardino last December, Pastor Beckley was a resounding voice of comfort and an unwavering leader for thousands in our darkest hours. He provided solace to the families of victims, compassion to their co-workers and strength to the community as we recovered.” He continued, “His leadership was – and continues to be – an integral part of our efforts to heal and rebuild. We are so grateful for his dedication to the thousands of Inland Empire families that look to him for guidance and thank him for his continued service to our region.” Pastor Beckley was ordained in 1980 and became the Founding Pastor at Ecclesia Christian Fellowship in 1991, serving as Senior Pastor for the past twenty-five years. Pastor Beckley co-founded the Inland Empire Concerned African American Churches and today serves as the Chair of Community Action Partnership of San Bernardino County. Yesterday morning, he was joined by his wife Lynda and sister Tammie. Pastor Beckley’s Opening Prayer can be watched here and Rep. Aguilar’s full remarks can be viewed here.
05.19.2016	Last night, the House of Representatives passed the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year (FY) 2017, which included four national security amendments submitted by Rep. Pete Aguilar. The NDAA is an annual defense policy bill that directs the United States’ defense programs for the fiscal year. While Aguilar was glad to support the bill, which supports the nation’s defense priorities and authorizes funding for troops, he was deeply disturbed by the inclusion of a hateful anti-LGBT amendment that was added in the committee markup. The amendment, now provision, offered by Rep. Steve Russell (R-Oklahoma) allows federal contractors to discriminate against the LGBT community by claiming a “religious exemption” to get around rules that bar discrimination in hiring by federal contractors. House Republicans blocked a bipartisan amendment to remove the language from getting a vote on the House floor. “Funding our nation’s defense programs is essential to maintaining our national security structure, so for House Republicans to hold that hostage over a vile provision rooted in bigotry is reprehensible. This bill is about directing our nation’s defense priorities, not giving clout to those who want to discriminate against an entire community,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “I supported the NDAA because there are critical defense initiatives that we need to address, but I urge my fellow members who conference on this bill to strip this odious language and let us move forward with its true intentions: to fund our nation’s defense programs.” Aguilar voted against the Russell Amendment during the committee markup of the bill last month. Last night, he voted in favor of a Democratic measure which would strike the hateful provision and also prohibit another derogatory provision added by House Republicans, which safeguards the flying of the Confederate Battle Flag over The Citadel, a prominent military institution that is funded by American taxpayer dollars. The measure failed, with all Republicans voting against it. Three of Rep. Aguilar’s amendments were passed during the committee markup of the bill and one was added on the floor earlier this week. The amendments seek to increase and enhance the United States’ national security by strengthening our cybersecurity workforce; putting veterans back to work; supporting Hispanic Serving institutions that offer science, technology, engineering and mathematics education programs; and helping the Department of Defense (DOD) sync its cybersecurity training programs. To read more about Rep. Aguilar’s amendments, please see here and here. The NDAA passed the House of Representatives with a vote of 277 to 147. Rep. Aguilar serves on the House Armed Services Committee and the Subcommittees on Strategic Forces and Emerging Threats and Capabilities.
05.18.2016	Last night, Rep. Pete Aguilar passed a critical cybersecurity amendment through the House of Representatives, which was added to the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year (FY) 2017. The NDAA is an annual defense policy bill that directs the United States defense programs. Aguilar’s amendment establishes a pilot program to expedite the process for individuals in the cybersecurity field to become officers in the United States Army and the United States Air Force. This would incentivize students graduating from schools like California State University, San Bernardino that specialize in cybersecurity training, to enter the armed forces and become “cyberwarriors” quickly and efficiently. “As cyberwarfare continues to develop, we need to make sure we have the best and brightest helping us to take the fight to those who threaten our national security,” said Rep. Aguilar. He added, “The San Bernardino community knows all too well the difficulty that lies in finding expertly trained cybersecurity personnel to help us combat cyberattacks at home and abroad.” An example of a cyberwarrior is an agent who works for the Department of Defense (DOD) and is responsible for mitigating the threat of cyberattacks. Rep. Aguilar’s amendment on cyberwarriors was added to the NDAA, which will go before the House of Representatives for final passage later today. The amendment can read in full here. During the committee markup of the bill, Rep. Aguilar passed three other critical national security amendments. These amendments help veterans translate their skills to jobs at home; incentivize the development of science, technology, engineering and mathematics education programs at Hispanic Serving Institutions; and help sync DOD Cyber Training Equivalency programs to support students entering the cybersecurity field. Additional information about these amendments is available here. Rep. Aguilar serves on the House Armed Services Committee and the Subcommittees on Strategic Forces and Emerging Threats and Capabilities.
05.13.2016	This week, Rep. Pete Aguilar joined with Democrat and Republican members of the House of Representatives to pass over a dozen bills to help combat the opioid epidemic that has affected communities across California and the nation. While Rep. Aguilar was pleased to support the bipartisan legislation, he was disappointed that none of the bills allocate funding in any capacity to expand treatment for addiction that would save American lives. “The opioid epidemic has reached every corner of our nation, including San Bernardino County. Addiction is a debilitating disease that ends lives and destroys families – we cannot wait while this destructive threat continues to tear our communities apart,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “I was glad to join my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to support these measures, however, none of the bills include any funding for treatment programs or resources for first responders, which I find particularly alarming.” The bills mostly approve studies or create panels of experts on addiction and pain management. Some actions include: establishing a task force to study and release information on treating pain management and prescribing pain medication, improving treatment and care for babies born addicted to opioids, adding additional preventative measures to reduce unused prescriptions from falling into the hands of friends or relatives of patients, and studying the best information and resources about opioid abuse for youth athletes and families. Rep. Aguilar also supported H.R. 5189, the Democratic Substitute Opioids Package, which would allocate $600 million for resources to combat the opioid crisis. House Republicans blocked the bill from being considered on the floor today.
05.09.2016	On Saturday, Rep. Pete Aguilar hosted Spring Academy Day for Inland Empire students interested in attending U.S. Service Academies. Representatives from the U.S. Military Academy, U.S. Naval Academy and U.S. Air Force Academy spoke at the information session where they addressed a number of topics, including admission timelines, admission requirements and preparation, the application process, course loads, available degrees and expectations. “Expanding access to higher education opportunities and giving students the tools they need to make important decisions about their futures are my top priorities,” said Rep. Aguilar. He added, “I’m glad we were able to help connect these young leaders with the resources that they need and I look forward to seeing what their futures hold.” Dozens of students and family members attended the workshop, which was held at Summit Intermediate School in Etiwanda. This was the second Academy Day Rep. Aguilar has held since taking office last January. He previously held a similar information session in October. Students interested in applying to U.S. Service Academies require nominations to be considered. For the class of 2020, seven students from California’s 31st Congressional District will be attending U.S. Service Academies in the Fall of 2016, all of whom received nominations from Rep. Aguilar. For more information, please contact Rep. Aguilar’s office at 909-890-4445 or visit aguilar.house.gov.
04.28.2016	This morning, the House Armed Services Committee approved the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year (FY) 2017 that included three amendments added by Rep. Pete Aguilar (D-San Bernardino). The NDAA is the annual defense policy bill and sets the parameters and direction of United States defense programs for the next fiscal year. Rep. Aguilar’s amendments request the Department of Defense (DOD) to do the following: improve veterans’ access to commercial driver’s licenses after they leave the military; further collaborate with Hispanic-Serving institutions to harness the talent and innovation from their science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) education programs; and help sync the curriculum of our Centers of Academic Excellence (CAE) education institutions and Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC) with the DOD’s Cyber Training Equivalency programs, so that these graduates can help protect our nation and find work in this growing field. CAE institutions were created by the National Security Agency (NSA) and the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and are institutions with distinguished cybersecurity education programs. Hispanic-Serving institutions are colleges, universities or systems with at least 25 percent Hispanic enrollment. San Bernardino Valley College, Crafton Hills College, Chaffey College and the University of California, Riverside are all Hispanic-Serving institutions. California State Polytechnic University, Pomona is a certified CAE institution. California State University, San Bernardino is both a CAE institution and a Hispanic-Serving institution. “Strengthening our national security and our defense program is paramount. That’s why my amendments span across several important areas related to preserving and enhancing our national security, while supporting Inland Empire students and veterans,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “Supporting critical science, technology, engineering and mathematics programs like the ones offered at our community colleges, and helping returning veterans and students studying cyber defense and network security at schools like Cal State San Bernardino find work are all essential to our national and regional security.” The amendments were agreed to unanimously during the House Armed Services Committee’s markup of the NDAA. This bill will soon go to the House floor, where it will be debated further by the entire House of Representatives. Last year, four of Rep. Aguilar’s amendments were added to the NDAA for FY 2016 and ultimately passed the House of Representatives. Rep. Aguilar serves on the House Armed Services Committee and the Subcommittees on Strategic Forces and Emerging Threats and Capabilities.
04.26.2016	Last night, Rep. Pete Aguilar hosted an awards ceremony and reception to announce the winner of the 2016 Congressional Art Competition, also known as the Artistic Discovery Contest, a national art challenge that is sponsored in congressional districts across the country. All high school students living in California’s 31st Congressional District were encouraged to participate in the art competition, which saw over sixty submissions. The theme for this year’s art contest was “CommUNITY.” Faith Antillon, a sophomore from Fontana High School, was awarded first place. “We saw incredible talent and passion in every piece of art in this competition,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “Giving our kids the freedom to explore their creativity and express themselves is an important opportunity that every child should be able to enjoy. I congratulate all of the participants on their hard work and look forward to seeing where their paths will take them.” The judging panel was composed of local artists including Christine Coates, an Inland Empire muralist; Professor Martha Cowan, a painter and former San Bernardino Valley College instructor; Melissa Russo, the San Bernardino County Museum Director; Professor Annie Buckley, an instructor at California State University, San Bernardino; and Teresa Hernandez of the Inland Empire Latino Art Association. Faith Antillon’s submission, “Undivided” was awarded first place. Faith is a sophomore at Fontana High School and aspires for a career with Disney in art animation. Faith received free airfare to Washington, DC, courtesy of Southwest, where her artwork will be on display for one year in the United States Capitol. Time Warner Cable also awarded her $1,000 for hotel accomodations and expenses for her visit to our nation’s capital. Franco Daniel Marin Panameno, a junior at the Public Safety Academy in San Bernardino, was awarded second place and Esmerelda Lara, a senior from Carter High School, was awarded third place.
04.22.2016	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar hosted a meeting with some of the Inland Empire’s largest employers. The roundtable focused on what improvements can be made at the federal level to help alleviate unnecessary burdens facing businesses that employ large numbers of Inland Empire residents. “The Inland Empire is home to some of the most thriving businesses in the nation that provide good-paying jobs to thousands of residents,” said Rep. Aguilar. He added, “It’s important to have meetings like this so we can talk more about what can be done at the federal level to help employers with the tools they need to hire more skilled workers in San Bernardino County.” David Draper of Lewis Group of Companies in Upland attended the discussion and said, “First of all I appreciate the invitation, and I think this is important. I think this is some great insight we’ve learned from a lot of leaders in the Inland Empire area, and I want to thank the congressman for a great event. We hit a lot of issues, heard from a lot of voices, and each one has ideas that’s going to change our world here in San Bernardino County for the better.” Lawrie Jordan from the Environmental Systems Research Institute in Redlands participated in the meeting and said, “We appreciate the opportunity to attend the roundtable today. It was a very productive discussion. We’re very appreciative of Congressman Aguilar’s leadership in the area. We talked about substantive issues that focused on three main things – jobs, regulations and costs. It was a very productive conversation and I think some very good things will come out of it, so we appreciate again the opportunity to participate, and it’s a process that we’d like to stay actively engaged in from now on.” Job creation and growing the Inland Empire economy is Rep. Aguilar’s top priority. Since taking office, he has introduced four different jobs bills, held a jobs fair that connected San Bernardino County job-seekers with over two dozen local employers and held several roundtable discussions with small business owners. He also convened his first Small Business Advisory Board last week where he met with local small business owners and community stakeholders. Yesterday, Rep. Aguilar introduced his latest jobs bill, the Small Business Lending Assistance Act of 2016,which eliminates fees for certain Small Business Administration (SBA) loans to firms in areas with higher unemployment rates to help small businesses access capital. These were all recommendations in Rep. Aguilar’s Jobs Plan, which he released last April. His Jobs Plan can be read in full here.
04.21.2016	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar introduced his latest bill, H.R. 5029, the Small Business Lending Assistance Act of 2016, which eliminates fees for certain Small Business Administration (SBA) loans to firms in areas with higher unemployment rates to help small businesses access capital. Both San Bernardino and Riverside counties would benefit from this bill, allowing Inland Empire small businesses to get a much needed economic leg up. “Since I took office last year, supporting our small businesses has been one of my main objectives,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “This bill benefits Inland Empire businesses and is another step forward in getting our local economy back on track. After hosting jobs roundtables, touring local firms and convening my Small Business Advisory Board, I took the community feedback and wrote this bill so we can help our business owners access capital to grow their businesses and help create jobs.” Dr. John Husing, Chief Economist for the Inland Empire Economic Partnership commented, “Eighty-four and a half percent of businesses in the Inland Empire have under twenty-five employees so legislation that can serve that community has very fertile ground in this region.” The Small Business Lending Assistance Act clarifies that the SBA can use its authority to eliminate guarantee fees on all small SBA loans lasting for less than a year. It specifically orders the SBA to eliminate guarantee fees on all SBA 7(a) loans lasting less than a year in counties with an annual unemployment rate of at least one percent greater than the national unemployment average. This bill would target help to small businesses in counties like San Bernardino and Riverside counties, which had annual unemployment rates above the national average, which was 5.3 percent in 2015. Empowering small businesses with the tools they need to grow and expand was a critical piece of Rep. Aguilar’s Jobs Plan, which he released last year. By eliminating burdensome fees, Rep. Aguilar’s latest bill will give local business owners the ability to more easily access funds to expand and grow their operations. Since taking office in January of last year, Rep. Aguilar has taken a number of steps to boost the Inland Empire economy, including four jobs bills, jobs roundtable discussions with San Bernardino County businesses, tours of local job sites, visits to vocational and workforce training programs, an organized jobs fair to directly connect local employers with job seekers and a workshop with the SBA Administrator Maria Contreras-Sweet between business owners and Inland Empire lending partners to learn about increasing access to credit and capital. The Small Business Lending Assistance Act can be read in full here.
04.20.2016	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar announced that on Saturday, May 7th, his office will hold a Spring Academy Day for Inland Empire students interested in attending U.S. Service Academies. Representatives from the United States Military Academy at West Point, United States Naval Academy, United States Coast Guard Academy, United States Air Force Academy and the United States Merchant Marine Academy will be on hand to answer questions. “I’m glad to be able to connect our best and brightest with opportunities like this,” said Rep. Aguilar. He added, “Serving our country is the noblest thing someone can do and we are very fortunate to have such bravery and courage in the rising generation.” The information session will be held from 10:00AM to 11:30AM at Summit Intermediate School, located at 5959 East Avenue in Etiwanda. Staff members and military representatives will be on site to answer questions and hold information sessions on the admission timeline, admission requirements and preparation, the application process, course loads, available degrees, expectations and more. Students interested in applying to U.S. Service Academies require nominations to be considered. For additional information about the workshop, please contact Rep. Aguilar’s office at 909-890-4445 or visit aguilar.house.gov. This is the second academy day workshop Rep. Aguilar has held since he took office last January. Rep. Aguilar serves on the House Armed Services Committee and the Subcommittees on Strategic Forces and Emerging Threats and Capabilities. Before coming to Congress, Rep. Aguilar was the Mayor of Redlands where he resides today with his wife Alisha and their two sons.
04.18.2016	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar met with immigration activists and California residents who would be eligible for the expanded Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program and the new Deferred Action for Parents of Americans and Lawful Permanent Residents (DAPA) program under President Obama’s executive action. Only feet away, the Supreme Court heard oral arguments in the Texas v. United States case, which seeks to block the president’s action. President Obama issued the executive action in November 2014. The order would shield millions of immigrant families from being torn apart. “I urge the Supreme Court to do the right thing and keep Latino and other immigrant families together instead of tearing them apart,” said Aguilar. He added, “We’re talking about mothers, fathers, sons and daughters – this is about shielding families from the devastating possibility of being ripped from their homes and families.” Aguilar attended a panel hosted by the Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights of Los Angeles (CHIRLA), which also featured immigration activists from other organizations and California Representatives Xavier Becerra (CA-34), Norma Torres (CA-35), Zoe Lofgren (CA-19) and Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA-40). Rep. Aguilar is a staunch advocate for Comprehensive Immigration Reform with a pathway to citizenship and has consistently fought for the immigrant community. He has signed four amicus curiae briefs in support of both DACA and DAPA. These briefs highlight federal law passed by Congress that delegate the enforcement of immigration laws to the Administration and the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). If the Supreme Court decides that DACA and DAPA are constitutional, it is projected that 27,000 undocumented immigrants in San Bernardino County would benefit from the program.
04.14.2016	One year after releasing his Jobs Plan, Rep. Pete Aguilar highlighted his job-creating initiatives and next steps to help put San Bernardino County residents back to work. “Getting our economy back on track and putting people back to work has been my top priority since I took office,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “While we are certainly moving in the right direction, we have more work to do to make sure the Inland Empire begins to see the progress locally that we’ve seen nationally, and I look forward to continuing to work with both Democrats and Republicans at every level to make that happen.” Weeks after taking office, Rep. Aguilar convened multiple jobs roundtable discussions with business owners, community members and labor leaders throughout the district. Based on these meetings and his conversations with business owners on his small business tour, Rep. Aguilar released a Jobs Plan—a plan to get the Inland Empire economy moving again. Since releasing his Jobs Plan one year ago this week, Rep. Aguilar followed through on the recommendations included in the report, accomplishing a majority of the actions he outlined. These include: Cut taxes for small businesses to make it more affordable to start and expand a business: Rep. Aguilar’s Small Business Jobs Act is a targeted tax credit to small businesses that operate in counties with unemployment rates above the national average. This bill would benefit firms in both San Bernardino and Riverside County, helping to lift the Inland Empire regional economy. Rep. Aguilar’s Displaced Jobs Relief Act would help businesses recover that have seen significant jobs or sales losses due to foreign competition. Establish a Small Business Advisory Council to ensure small businesses have a voice in dealing with regulations that affect how they are able to do business: This week, Rep. Aguilar convened the first meeting with his Small Business Advisory Board, where small business owners discussed a number of issues facing Inland Empire employers and what other steps can be taken at the federal level to alleviate their burdens. Rep. Aguilar also voted for the America’s Small Business Tax Relief Act, which permanently extends three different tax provisions commonly used by many small businesses. Invest in our streets, roads, bridges, rail and public transit to support business growth and attract new business to the region: Rep. Aguilar advocated for and supported a number of local initiatives and grant requests to bring federal dollars back to the Inland Empire to invest in infrastructure. This included more than $1 million dollars for Loma Linda University Health for construction and infrastructure investments at their San Bernardino Campus. He also issued support for San Bernardino Associated Governments [SANBAG] projects and other municipalities for different local infrastructure projects that are making their way through the federal request system. Host a business workshop to connect entrepreneurs and businesses owners with resources to expand: In August, Rep. Aguilar hosted U.S. Small Business Administrator Maria Contreras-Sweet to meet with Inland Empire small business owners and local lending partners to discuss opportunities for local businesses and startups to grow their workforce and increase access to credit and capital in San Bernardino County. Create a National Infrastructure Bank to fund local projects and create jobs with public and private investments: Rep Aguilar joined Rep. Rosa DeLaura (D-CT) to introduce H.R. 3337, the National Infrastructure Development Bank Act. The bank will facilitate funding for a number of critical projects throughout California and the country, improving roads, bridges and rails that residents rely on each and every day. Expand job-training programs and incentives to help employers train their new hires: Rep. Aguilar’s bipartisan On-the-Job Training Tax Credit Act, provides a tax credit to small businesses to train and hire new employees. The bill was inspired by the Inland Empire Jobs Corps and the work they do training San Bernardino County residents for life-long careers and helping to close the skills gap so employers can train and hire experienced workers. Host Jobs Fairs to help connect job-seekers with job training resources, companies looking to hire, and other employment resources and opportunities: Last year, Rep. Aguilar hosted a Holiday Jobs Fair where he connected over two dozen local employers with Inland Empire job-seekers. Create targeted tax credits for businesses who hire new workers: Both the On-the-Job Training Tax Credit Act and the Small Business Jobs Act give businesses the means and resources through tax credits to expand, hire and train new employees. Make college more affordable by expanding Pell Grants, lowering student loan interest rates and making community college free: Rep. Aguilar cosponsored the America’s College Promise Act, which makes two years of community college free and also cosponsored the All-Year ACCESS Act, which restores full-year Pell Grants for full-time and part-time students. Rep. Aguilar has also held multiple college affordability events, including workshops for students struggling in the aftermath of for-profit college closures (such as Everest College) and an information session to connect students with federal student loan resources. Just last month he convened a Community College Roundtable Discussion to meet with Inland Empire education experts about what else can be done at the federal level to help students with access to affordable education opportunities. Invest in early childhood education and ensure our schools have the resources they need to educate our kids: Rep. Aguilar has toured local elementary schools and met with teachers and administrators in Head Start programs to highlight the need for investments in early childhood education. He also cosponsored the Strong Start for America’s Children Act, which sets up matching grants for states and districts to set up high-quality pre-kindergarten programs to serve low-income families. Increase the minimum wage to help people keep up with higher cost of living: Rep. Aguilar cosponsored the Raise the Wage Act, which would incrementally raise the federal minimum wage from $7.25 to $12.00 an hour by 2020 and phase out the tipped minimum wage. Ensure equal pay for women by supporting the Paycheck Fairness Act: Rep. Aguilar cosponsored the Paycheck Fairness Act, which would help close the wage gap that exists between men and women. Today, women earn approximately 79 cents to every dollar that white, non-Hispanic men make, on average. Rep. Aguilar will continue working to implement the remaining measures of his Jobs Plan. Rep. Aguilar’s Jobs Plan can be read in full here. Rep. Aguilar represents California’s 31st Congressional District. Prior to serving in Congress, Rep. Aguilar was the Mayor of Redlands where he resides today with his wife Alisha and their two children.
04.12.2016	Yesterday, Rep. Pete Aguilar (D-San Bernardino) hosted the inaugural meeting of his Small Business Advisory Board in San Bernardino. Local business owners and community members from across the Inland Empire joined Rep. Aguilar to discuss everyday obstacles that small business owners in San Bernardino County encounter, and what can be done at the federal level to alleviate those concerns. The Small Business Advisory Board was a recommendation included in Rep. Aguilar’s Jobs Plan. “Our small businesses are a driving force in the Inland Empire economy,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “Since the Great Recession, small businesses have created about 60 percent of all new jobs across the nation. We need to do more to empower our small business owners so they can expand their workforce and help lift our region as we work to get our economy back on track.” Manal Iskander, owner of the Green Shack Market, participated in the meeting and said, “Congressman Aguilar was very personable and was able to relate to the smaller businesses as well as the larger businesses that were in the room. I also liked that he addressed real life issues such as the FUTA tax or the minimum wage increase. He really dealt with things that really affect a small business on a daily basis. And he was able to allow us all to interconnect. He found issues that would face all businesses.” Ryan Berk, owner of à la minute ice cream, participated in the event and said, “The fact that we could all brainstorm together and sit down at one table, pretty much a roundtable meeting, and just be able to communicate based on what’s necessary to help us achieve and move forward with the next five to ten years in growth based around our companies—I think the fact that we could all get there together and actually communicate about those types of things was probably the most important aspect of the meeting.” Rep. Aguilar has made creating jobs and growing the Inland Empire economy his top priority. After taking office, he hosted a series of jobs roundtable discussions and small business tours throughout California’s 31st Congressional District. Last April, he released his Jobs Plan, a strategy for kick-starting San Bernardino County’s economy. Since releasing his Jobs Plan, Rep. Aguilar has put a number of his initiatives into action, including three jobs bills, hosting U.S. Small Business Administrator Maria Contreras-Sweet to meet with local lenders, holding a Jobs Fair to connect job-seekers with Inland Empire employers, and establishing a Small Business Advisory Board to recommend proactive steps to help support the small business community. The Jobs Plan can be read in full here.
04.08.2016	Yesterday, Rep. Pete Aguilar participated in a conference call sponsored by Americans for Responsible Solutions, focusing on the need for commonsense measures to curb gun violence, specifically highlighting the need to close the “terror gap.” Rep. Aguilar argued that ending gun violence is a bipartisan issue, rooted in commonsense reforms that include preventing suspected terrorists from acquiring firearms. This would close a loophole, which is commonly referred to as the “terror gap.” Jeff Horseman with the Press-Enterprise has the story, which can be read in full here.
04.07.2016	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar hosted an Immigration Roundtable Discussion with local stakeholders to highlight prevalent issues that families and institutions face when dealing with the United States’ immigration system, as well as problems faced by the immigrant community in the Inland Empire. Representatives from immigration advocacy organizations, higher education institutions and foreign governments participated in the discussion, which was held at the Mexican Consulate in San Bernardino. “Immigration reform is a bipartisan issue—Ronald Reagan taught us that,” said Rep. Aguilar. He added, “Fixing our immigration system will allow us to keep families together, bring millions of people into our economy, and will allow us to continue to set the moral standard that every other country in the world looks to for leadership.” Sylvia Juarez Magana, a Professional Expert at the Dreamers Resource Center at San Bernardino Valley College attended and said, “The congressman’s roundtable really took into consideration the entire landscape of immigration and how students are affected by immigration policy discussions.” Isabel Sanchez, a Policy Advocate for the Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights of Los Angeles (CHIRLA) participated in the roundtable and commented, “It was a pleasure attending the immigration roundtable meeting hosted by Congressman Pete Aguilar. I’m glad to have voiced issues that our immigration community faces and to know that we have his support on many issues discussed.” Rep. Aguilar is a steadfast supporter of Comprehensive Immigration Reform with a pathway to citizenship and has continuously advocated on behalf of the issue. Last year he was a leading voice against House Republicans’ attempts to shut down the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) over President Obama’s executive actions on immigration, and he coauthored a letter to then-Speaker John Boehner demanding a vote to keep the agency open. He has also called on DHS to end to the expansion of the Family Detention Program of undocumented women and children. Rep. Aguilar has signed four amicus curiae briefs in support of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) and the Deferred Action for Parents of Americans and Lawful Permanent Residents (DAPA) programs as they are considered by the Supreme Court.
03.31.2016	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar hosted a Water Roundtable Discussion with members of the Inland Empire water community to discuss a variety of issues related to California water, including water supply monitoring, federal legislation and proposals, and updates on Inland Empire water projects. Participants represented different fields of the water community, including representatives from San Bernardino County cities, water agencies and water consultants. Today’s session was held at the East Valley Water District in Highland. “Protecting our water supply is one of the most important issues we face as a region, state and nation. From conserving our water supply during California’s historic drought, to learning from the lead crisis in Flint, Michigan, there were a number of important topics for us to address,” said Rep. Aguilar. He added, “I’m grateful that representatives from the Inland Empire water community sat down with me to map out what we can do locally and nationally to safeguard our water supply.” Water Resources Consultant Maria Elena Kennedy attended the event and said, “I applaud Congressman Aguilar for his leadership in bringing together water managers from the Inland Empire to find solutions to our water supply needs. The Congressman’s dedication to the residents of California’s 31st Congressional District is admirable.” Preserving and maintaining the Inland Empire’s water supply is a critical issue of both public health and environmental sustainability. Since taking office last year, Rep. Aguilar has made this a top priority, cosponsoring and supporting legislation to confront the California drought crisis and to improve water quality in San Bernardino County and across the nation. These bills include the Drought Recovery and Resilience Act, the Water in the 21st Century Act, and the Safe Drinking Water Act Improved Compliance Awareness.
03.30.2016	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar hosted a Community College and Higher Education Roundtable with members of the Inland Empire education community. Participants represented different areas of the Inland Empire education field, including community college officials, public school board members, education advocates and more. Today’s session was held at the Inland Empire Job Corps and is one of the latest events Rep. Aguilar has held focusing on improving access and affordability for higher education in the Inland Empire. “In today’s world, many American workers need more than a high school degree to compete in our rapidly evolving economy. However, an education isn’t one-size-fits-all—four-year colleges may not work for all students, which is why the roles of community colleges and workforce training programs are so important,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “Addressing affordability and access to higher education in the Inland Empire are significant actions to help get our economy moving again and lift our region as a whole.” Director of Alliance for Education and Rancho Cucamonga City Council Member Dr. Lynne Kennedy attended and said, “College affordability and access to post-secondary education are current challenges facing students across the nation in general and more specifically in the Inland Empire. As we address these challenges and look for avenues to maximize access and lower costs, we must include community colleges as well as colleges/universities as viable options. The educational roundtable, hosted by Rep. Aguilar, resulted in meaningful dialogue and generated ideas we can implement to make higher education and careers a reality for students and young adults.” President of the San Bernardino Community College District, Former State Assemblyman and Former Mayor of Rialto John Longville commented, “I’m glad Rep. Aguilar convened this roundtable – community colleges play a critical role in the education system and can open up a world of opportunities for Inland Empire students of every age and income level.” Lorena Corona, Manager of Government Relations at Chaffey Community College added, “It’s important that Inland Empire educators and education professionals be included in policy discussions like this. These are our kids that we’re talking about, so it’s necessary that San Bernardino County community members have a voice to provide feedback and critiques on how our local, state and federal leaders can work with us to improve our education system.” Rep. Aguilar has been a strong advocate for investing in education, specifically for access to community college and workforce training opportunities. He cosponsored the America’s College Promise Act, which makes two years of community college free and also cosponsored the All-Year ACCESS Act, which restores full-year Pell Grants for full-time and part-time students. Rep. Aguilar has also held multiple college affordability events, including workshops for students struggling in the aftermath of for-profit college closures (such as Everest College) and an information session to connect students with federal student loan resources. Rep. Aguilar’s first bill—the On-the-Job Training Tax Credit Act—was modeled after the Inland Empire Job Corps and addresses the skills gap to help businesses pay for training new employees.
03.29.2016	Last week, Rep. Pete Aguilar submitted formal requests to the House Appropriations Committee to allot funds to the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and the Department of Justice (DOJ) to assist programs that can help municipalities like San Bernardino recover costs sustained from extraordinary emergencies like the attack at the Inland Regional Center. Rep. Aguilar submitted a request for funding for programs managed by the Department of Homeland Security, and was joined by fellow California Representative Ken Calvert (R-Corona) on an appeal for funds for programs administered by the Department of Justice. Richard De Atley with the Press-Enterprise has the story, which can be read in full here.
03.25.2016	This week, Rep. Pete Aguilar submitted formal requests to the House Appropriations Committee to allocate funds to the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and the Department of Justice (DOJ) to support programs that can help cities like San Bernardino recover costs incurred from extraordinary emergency events like the attack at the Inland Regional Center on December 2, 2015. “As our community recovers, we need to make sure that our first responders continue to have the resources they need so San Bernardino and the Inland Empire can move forward,” said Rep. Aguilar. He added, “San Bernardino was forced to bear a horrific burden emotionally and economically, and as we heal, we need to be sure our first responders and cities are equipped with the tools and funds they need to push on.” Rep. Aguilar co-authored his letter to the Department of Justice with fellow California Representative Ken Calvert (R-Corona), who is also an Appropriations Subcommittee Chair. Rep. Calvert stated, “The terrorist attack in San Bernardino was clearly a national security incident. In my opinion, it’s entirely appropriate for the federal government to help offset some of the significant costs our local law enforcement agencies incurred in their heroic response to this tragic incident.” San Bernardino County Sheriff John McMahon added, “We appreciate the help Congressman Aguilar and Congressman Calvert have provided and continue to provide related to reimbursement for this tragedy. The costs associated with events of this magnitude have a significant impact on local budgets.” San Bernardino Police Chief Jarrod Burguan said, “Securing federal funds to help our region recover from the attack in San Bernardino is critical. I'm glad to see the process is moving along and I commend Congressman Aguilar and Congressman Calvert for their leadership." In February, the House of Representatives began the annual appropriations process, which funds the federal government for the next fiscal year. This process empowers Congress to fund a number of departments, agencies and programs throughout the federal government. Rep. Aguilar’s letters to DHS and DOJ with his appropriations requests can be read here and here. Rep. Aguilar’s letters formally ask for sufficient funding for programs supported by these two agencies which are potential resources for San Bernardino and for other cities, should they experience an extraordinary emergency in the future like what happened in San Bernardino. The Appropriations Committee will review the requests in the coming weeks and months. Rep. Aguilar has worked closely with local law enforcement, federal agencies and his Democratic and Republican colleagues to help offset the costs sustained as a result of the attack at the Inland Regional Center, and will continue to do so to ensure that first responders and Inland Empire cities and towns have the resources they need to recover. Beau Yabrough with the San Bernardino Sun has the story here.
03.09.2016	Rep. Pete Aguilar and former Riverside Mayor Ron Loveridge co-authored an editorial in last week’s edition of El Chicano, which highlights the opportunities in combating climate change. The issue is on newsstands now. In his first year in Congress, Rep. Aguilar has advocated for and supported a number of measures to protect the environment from harmful effects caused by climate change, and to ensure Inland Empire families have the opportunity to enjoy a sustainable and safe environment with clean water, land and air. Prior to serving in Congress, Rep. Aguilar was the Mayor of Redlands, where he resides today with his wife Alisha and their two sons. Ron Loveridge is the former Mayor of Riverside and is currently an Associate Professor of Political Science and the Director of the Center for Sustainable Suburban Development at the University of California, Riverside.
03.04.2016	Yesterday, Rep. Pete Aguilar and United States Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-California) co-authored an editorial for TIME on the Apple encryption case. In the editorial, Rep. Aguilar and Senator Feinstein argue that Apple should help investigators preserve data on an iPhone left behind by one of the terrorists in the San Bernardino attack, which could potentially expose important information related to the investigation. They contend that refusing to comply with a court order in this particular investigation creates gaps in the United States’ national security. The editorial can be read in full below or at Time.com. Rep. Aguilar represents California’s 31st Congressional District, which includes the City of San Bernardino. He serves on the House Armed Services Committee, including the subcommittees on Strategic Forces and Emerging Threats and Capabilities. Senator Feinstein is the senior United States Senator from California and is the ranking Democratic member on the Senate Intelligence Committee. The Dec. 2 terrorist attack in San Bernardino, Calif., will forever be etched in our memory. The shootings—the deadliest terrorist attack on U.S. soil since 9/11—left 14 dead, 22 injured and shook our community to the core. We grieve for all the families who will forever be affected by this tragedy. And we offer our thanks to law enforcement agencies for their diligent work on this case. In the weeks that followed, local law enforcement and the FBI worked together to uncover details surrounding the attack to learn more about what happened and why. But last month, Apple CEO Tim Cook announced that the company would not cooperate with an order from a federal district court requiring Apple to assist the FBI in unlocking the assailant’s iPhone. The terrorists who carried out the attack at the Inland Regional Center left behind the locked and encrypted iPhone, which is actually owned by the San Bernardino County Department of Health. Despite a warrant issued in the case and consent from the county, investigators have been unable to unlock the phone and access information that could help with the investigation. In the past, Apple has worked with law enforcement to retrieve data from locked devices in certain situations. This case should be no different; in fact it should be easier since Apple is not being asked to retrieve data in this case. That’s why we’re urging Apple to abide by the judge’s court order so this investigation can continue unimpeded as law enforcement continues to work to prevent heinous terrorist attacks like this from happening again. While this incident has generated a great amount of controversy regarding security and privacy, we think it’s important at this time to focus just on the judge’s order in this particular case. Other requests by the Justice Department and other jurisdictions should be evaluated on an individualized basis. The court order in this case requires Apple to prevent the attacker’s iPhone from having all its data wiped while law enforcement attempts to unlock the phone. Access to the phone could provide a window into the terrorist’s motives and shed light on this attack in the broader context of the fight against ISIS. The merits of other cases should not interfere with the investigation of the San Bernardino attack. Complying with a judge’s order and helping authorities investigate this terrorist act does not compromise Apple’s commitment to privacy. Rather, it supports the duty of law enforcement to protect and serve, and it aids in pursuing justice for the innocent lives lost at the hands of terrorists. In addition, privacy rights are not afforded to the dead, and the assailant was killed in a shootout with police following his rampage at the Inland Regional Center. Individual privacy rights also do not cover another person’s property. The phone in question was not the individual property of the terrorist. It was his work phone and belonged to the San Bernardino County government, which has consented to the search. Warrants executed in this investigation have exposed every other aspect of the San Bernardino terrorists’ lives; why should they also not extend to the iPhone simply because it’s an Apple product? In the almost 15 years since the Twin Towers fell, those who wish to do us harm have turned to more advanced ways of recruitment and radicalization, including infiltrating social media platforms and using encrypted communications. As these operations grow increasingly complex, we must do everything in our power to disrupt and destroy the terrorists’ communication methods. That starts with uniting the intelligence community, law enforcement and technology companies with these common goals. In an increasingly dangerous and unpredictable world, we need the technology sector and law enforcement to work together to keep our communities safe. Legally, Apple should cooperate with the FBI’s request and the court’s ruling to prevent the phone from destroying all the data and expose possible critical information in the investigation. Morally, we should do everything within the confines of the law—which includes following the court’s order—to see this investigation through and seek justice for the victims’ families. Refusing to help law enforcement and the intelligence community risks the safety of Americans abroad and at home and leaves gaps in our national security. Our partners in technology can and should do everything in their power to help the FBI get the information it needs to prevent future terrorist attacks.
03.03.2016	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar announced that his office will hold the Artistic Discovery Contest, a nationwide art competition that is sponsored in congressional districts across the country. Rep. Aguilar will host the competition for high school students living in California’s 31st Congressional District. The theme for this year’s competition is “commUNITY” and is open to all high school students within the congressional district. “Supporting the arts and encouraging our students to share their work with the community creates a healthy and compassionate environment for our kids,” said Rep. Aguilar. He added, “Opportunities like this allow students to both express themselves and take pride in their accomplishments.” To participate in the Artistic Discovery Contest, students must be in high school and live in California’s 31st Congressional District, a map of which is available here. Their submissions may be up to 28 inches by 28 inches, 4 inches in depth and no more than 15 pounds. Original paintings, drawings, collages and prints are all accepted. Students should also adhere to the “commUNITY” theme. All participants will be invited to join Rep. Aguilar for an award dinner in the spring. The winner will have their artwork on display in the United States Capitol for one year, representing California’s 31st Congressional District. Submissions must be delivered to Rep. Aguilar’s office at 685 East Carnegie Drive, Suite 100 in San Bernardino no later than 5:00PM on April 6, 2016. For additional information, please visit Aguilar.house.gov or call 909-890-4445.
03.02.2016	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar highlighted the urgency of safeguarding women’s reproductive health care in his statement honoring Women’s History Month, which is celebrated throughout the month of March. “As we honor the extraordinary achievements of women throughout American history, we are reminded of their bravery and conviction to securing equality and justice across all boundaries. “We remember the sacrifices women made for the right to vote, equality in the work place and for access to fundamental health care. While we have seen some progress in these areas, women today are still fighting the same battles their mothers and grandmothers were forced to endure decades ago. “Today, the United States Supreme Court heard oral arguments for Whole Woman’s Health v. Hellerstedt, a case that threatens to close multiple abortion facilities in Texas and strip millions of women from accessing critical reproductive health services. This case is the most significant reproductive rights case in over twenty years, and the ruling may set a dangerous precedent and have devastating consequences for women across the nation. “Attacks on women’s health must stop. In the past year, we witnessed Planned Parenthood fall victim to fraudulent and baseless accusations, and we watched horrific violence erupt at a Colorado Planned Parenthood facility. The dangerous rhetoric and vicious treatment of women’s reproductive rights must come to an end. “We cannot be silent while the assault on women’s rights continues. We owe it to the women of history who got us here and to the future generations who will carry us forward, to end this fight once and for all.” Rep. Aguilar is fierce advocate for women’s reproductive rights and has been a consistent supporter for policies that safeguard and strengthen women’s reproductive health. He is a proud member of the Pro-Choice Caucus. Rep. Aguilar joined his colleagues in Congress and signed an Amicus Brief, calling on the Supreme Court to uphold women’s constitutional right to make their own health decisions.
02.29.2016	Over the weekend, Rep. Pete Aguilar connected Inland Empire families with critical student loan resources at his FAFSA (Free Application for Federal Student Aid) and student loan workshop. Student loan advisers were on hand to answer last-minute questions ahead of the March 2nd FAFSA application deadline. The workshop also included resources for DREAMers applying for student assistance and additional information on navigating the student loan process. Nearly 100 students and parents participated in the event, which was held at the Roy C. Hill Education Center in San Bernardino on Saturday morning. “I understand what our students are going through – I’ve been in their shoes,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “The student loan process is complex and can be very confusing, especially if you’ve never done it before. I’m glad we were able to host this workshop for families to help ease that burden.” Rep. Aguilar has been a tireless advocate for college affordability since taking office last year. He’s cosponsored a number of initiatives to expand access to loans and grants, including the All-Year ACCESS Act and the America’s College Promise Act. He also cosponsored the Protections and Regulations for Our Students (PRO) Act, which holds for-profit colleges accountable for their actions and protects students and administrators from potential predatory behavior. As a Pell Grant recipient, Rep. Aguilar personally understands the financial burden that thousands of Inland Empire families and millions throughout the nation struggle with every day. His FAFSA and student loan workshop is his most recent effort to help connect students with important resources, and follows the student loan and transfer workshop he held last year that assisted students who were affected by the closing of Everest College. Rep. Aguilar is working to make college more accessible and affordable for San Bernardino County families. If you or someone you know has questions on the FAFSA application or student loan process and was unable to attend the workshop, please call Rep. Aguilar’s office at 909-890-4445.
02.23.2016	Earlier this week, Rep. Pete Aguilar authored an editorial for the Press-Enterprise entitled “Reducing gun violence is not a partisan issue,” where he highlighted the need for commonsense measures and bipartisan efforts in Congress to reduce gun violence. Rep. Aguilar has been an unwavering advocate for commonsense reforms to curb gun violence, beginning when he served as the Mayor of Redlands and joined the “Mayors Against Illegal Guns” coalition. Since taking office last year, he has worked with both Democrats and Republicans to push forward meaningful solutions to combat the epidemic of gun violence in the United States. Rep. Aguilar cosponsored the Assault Weapons Ban of 2015 and has frequently called on his colleagues in Congress to allow debate on preventing suspected terrorists on the no-fly list from acquiring deadly weapons. Rep. Aguilar added his name as a cosponsor to two Republican led bills that help address gaps in background checks; these include the Public Safety and Second Amendment Rights Protection Act and the Denying Firearms and Explosives to Dangerous Terrorists Act. The full editorial can be read in the Press-Enterprise or online here.
02.18.2016	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar convened another meeting of his Veterans Advisory Board. The committee of local veterans, veteran assistance non-profit organizations, and local housing authorities met with Rep. Aguilar this afternoon to discuss the issue of veteran homelessness. The Veterans Advisory Board includes community members on a rotating basis to address a variety of issues facing veterans, including homelessness, employment, health care, the VA backlog and more. At Rep. Aguilar’s last Veterans Advisory Board meeting in November, participants focused on expanding job opportunities for San Bernardino County veterans. Rep. Aguilar meets frequently with the board to confront issues facing veterans throughout the Inland Empire. “While San Bernardino County is certainly a leader on decreasing veteran homelessness, we still have more work to do to make sure every veteran and their family has a roof over their head,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “I’m grateful to have the company of local veterans and experts in the field of veteran assistance and housing to join me today as we focus on the next steps we can take as a community to end this terrible trend.” Chris Williams, Veteran Outreach Coordinator for Vets on Deck 4 Vets said, “I’m glad Representative Aguilar organized this meeting. Homelessness is a big problem among the veteran population, so it’s important for us to come together as a community to address it head on.” Frank Guevara, Director of San Bernardino County Veterans Affairs said, “I think today’s discussion was helpful in hammering out promising measures that we can take as a community to end veteran homelessness, and to continue to be an example to the greater Inland Empire community on this issue.” Lisa Jones, Deputy Director at the Housing Authority for the County of San Bernardino said, “Veteran homelessness is a problem the Housing Authority is dedicated to tackling. Discussions like this are critical because we need to learn about what we’ve done right and where we can enhance our efforts. I appreciate Representative Aguilar’s efforts on tackling veteran homelessness and convening today’s meeting.” Rep. Aguilar serves on the House Armed Services Committee and has made fighting for veterans one of his top priorities since taking office. In January, Rep. Aguilar met with United States Veterans Affairs Secretary Robert McDonald and San Bernardino County officials to discuss veteran homelessness in the community and across the nation. Last year, Rep. Aguilar called on the House Appropriations Committee to allocate critical funding to the HUD-Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing (HUD-VASH) program, which combines rental assistance in the form of a HUD voucher to assist homeless veterans. The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) jointly awarded the Housing Authority of the County of San Bernardino $405, 804 to support housing vouchers for veterans. Shortly after taking office last year, Rep. Aguilar convened a Veterans Roundtable which set the parameters for his recurring Veterans Advisory Board.
02.11.2016	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar announced that he will hold a FAFSA (Free Application for Federal Student Aid) and college affordability workshop to answer any last-minute questions before the March 2nd application deadline. The workshop will provide information for students applying for FAFSA, resources for DREAMers applying for student assistance, and guidance for parents or guardians who have children navigating the student loan process for the first time. “My brother and I were the first in our family to go to college, so I know personally how daunting the financial aid process can be,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “College affordability is a critical issue in our country, so I’m glad we are able to hold a workshop like this to try and make it a little easier for Inland Empire students and families.” What: FAFSA and College Affordability Workshop When: Saturday, February 27th from 9:00AM to 10:00AM Where: Roy C. Hill Education Center [601 North E Street, San Bernardino, CA 92415] Anyone interested in attending can RSVP here. For additional information, please call Rep. Aguilar’s office at 909-890-4445. Rep. Aguilar was a Pell Grant recipient at the University of Redlands, and has been a fierce advocate for college affordability. He’s cosponsored several pieces of legislation to ease the financial burden on San Bernardino County families, including the All-Year ACCESS Act, the America’s College Promise Act and the Protections and Regulations for Our Students (PRO) Act. These bills will increase access to Pell Grants for students attending class year-round, make two years of community college free for all Americans, and will enact important accountability measures at for-profit colleges to protect students and administrators from predatory actions. Last year, Rep. Aguilar held a student loan transfer workshop for those affected by the Everest College closure. He is committed to making higher education more affordable and to helping Inland Empire families get the help and information they need to send their children to college.
02.08.2016	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar invited schools, public libraries and nonprofit organizations in California’s 31st Congressional District to participate in the Library of Congress’ Surplus Books Program. The Surplus Books Program allows Rep. Aguilar to distribute excess books collected by the Library of Congress to groups and organizations throughout the 31st Congressional District. “This is a great program that helps us get important educational resources to children of every age throughout our community,” said Rep. Aguilar. He added, “We should explore every avenue to increase resources that support education, and the Surplus Books Program allows us to do just that.” One recent donation of books was made to the San Bernardino Public Library. “On behalf of the San Bernardino Public Library Board of Trustees and the city, I would like to say thank you very much to Congressman Aguilar for thinking of our library with this very generous donation of new books from the Library of Congress Surplus Books Program,” said San Bernardino Public Library Director Ed Erjavek. He continued, “We’re grateful for his interest in promoting reading and early literacy, especially for young people, as libraries help to bring communities such as San Bernardino together. All of our patrons are encouraged to come in and check out these new books.” The Surplus Books Program is open to local, state and federal agencies, public educational institutions, and nonprofit schools. If you have any questions about the program or would like to participate, please call Rep. Aguilar’s office at 202-225-3201.
02.04.2016	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar shared updates from his Holiday Jobs Fair that he hosted last November, where he connected local job seekers with Inland Empire employers. “Our community was devastated by the Great Recession and families are still fighting to make ends meet. That’s unacceptable,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “While the economy has improved nationally, we just aren’t feeling it in the Inland Empire. That’s why jobs fairs like this play an important role and why I’ll continue to hold events like this and work with my Democratic and Republican colleagues in Congress to find new ways to get our economy moving again.” “Representative Aguilar's Holiday Jobs Fair helped connect me with the resources I needed to find a job that matched my skills,” said Trevor, a Colton resident who attended the jobs fair in early November. He added, “I really like my job and hope more people can see the same success I have from this opportunity.” Trevor was connected to the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act Youth Program, which placed him in a security guard position. Rep. Aguilar helped connect San Bernardino County residents with over two dozen different local employers and critical job training and education programs. At least forty-four people were placed in a job as a result of the jobs fair. Expanding access to employment through jobs fairs and other opportunities has been Rep. Aguilar’s top priority since taking office last year, and was included in his Jobs Plan. He has also taken other steps to get the regional economy back on track, including three different jobs bills and bringing federal agency representatives to California’s 31st Congressional District. In August, Rep. Aguilar hosted United States Small Business Administrator Maria Contreras-Sweet in San Bernardino to highlight specific opportunities for small businesses in the Inland Empire.
02.03.2016	Today, Representative Pete Aguilar announced that his office will host the Valentines for Veterans program, where local students in kindergarten through the fifth grade are encouraged to make Valentine’s Day cards for San Bernardino County veterans. “This is a nice opportunity to include our kids in thanking local veterans for their service to our nation,” said Representative Aguilar. He added, “A little bit can go a long way. I think these cards will brighten the day for veterans in our community and serve as a reminder that we’re always thinking of them and what they’ve done to keep us safe.” To participate, cards must be made by students in kindergarten through the 5th grade in California’s 31st Congressional District. Cards can be made with construction paper, crayons or markers, and should not include students’ names. For health purposes, students are also asked to refrain from using glitter. All valentines must be brought to Representative Aguilar’s office no later than February 12th. The office address is 685 E. Carnegie Drive, Suite 100 in San Bernardino. For additional questions on the Valentines for Veterans program, please contact Representative Aguilar’s office at 909-890-4445.
02.02.2016	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar released the following statement in honor of Black History Month, which is recognized during the month of February: “Throughout the month of February, we celebrate Black History Month by honoring the brave men and women who gave and risked their lives in the name of equality. From Harriet Tubman to Rosa Parks to Dr. King, to my colleague in Congress, Representative John Lewis—we owe a great debt to those who led the fight for freedom and pushed our nation forward. We remember their acts of courage and their conviction to justice in the face of unthinkable challenges. In a world that tried to intimidate them and divide our nation with hatred and bigotry, they refused to cower in fear. They changed a generation – they broke down barriers and shifted a nation so that every child, regardless of race, would have a chance at the American Dream. While we have come a long way, the struggle to eradicate discrimination and injustice endures. Attacks on the Voting Rights Act and hateful assaults on black communities, like the horrific shooting in Charleston, must stop. We owe it to those who paved the way to liberty to continue their work so that every American can live a life free of prejudice and enjoy full equality under the law.” Representative Aguilar represents California’s 31st Congressional District.
01.21.2016	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar toured the Center for Employment Training facility in Colton where he met with students, instructors and administrators. Aguilar, an advocate for expanding job training opportunities in the Inland Empire, toured the campus, visiting the Automotive Program, Welding Fabrication, Green Building Construction Skills (Solar) and Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning (HVAC) programs. The center also offers vocational and skills training for students studying CNC/Machinist Technology and Truck Driving. “I’m grateful for the opportunity to tour the Center for Employment Training facility and to see firsthand how these critical programs are preparing Inland Empire residents for the 21st century economy,” said Aguilar. He continued, “It’s so encouraging to see the devotion of the instructors and administrators in seeing their students succeed—we need more programs like this in San Bernardino County.” Campus Executive Director Eduardo Robles added, “We are grateful for the opportunity to share our campus with U.S. Representative Pete Aguilar and the people in his district. As a Non-Profit Vocational School, the services we offer prepare our graduates for highly skilled employment in their field of training. We are currently enrolling for all programs and welcome anyone interested in training, to please call 909-478-3818 to arrange a campus visit.” HVAC Technician and Green Technology student Veronica Sanchez shared her experience at the center. She said, “My aunt is my motivation, she pushes me to do better and that’s why I wanted to do this. I know this is kind of an industry for men, but now I see more women…women are vice presidents of companies and that makes me want to go and do more.” Expanding job opportunities in the Inland Empire has been Rep. Aguilar’s top priority since taking office last year. Weeks after being sworn-in, he convened regional jobs roundtables, embarked on a jobs tour across the region, released a jobs plan, and last session he introduced three bills to help put residents back to work. His first bill, the On-the-Job Training Tax Credit Act of 2015 would incentivize employers to train and hire more job seekers throughout San Bernardino County.
01.13.2016	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar issued the following statement in response to President Obama’s final State of the Union address: “The country has made a lot of progress since the president’s first State of the Union address seven years ago. We have seen steady job growth and record numbers of Americans getting health insurance, but we still have work to do to make sure that Inland Empire families feel the effects of the recovery. We need to ensure that our communities in San Bernardino County have a fair shot at the economic success that has been seen nationwide. “The fact remains that hardworking families in San Bernardino simply aren’t feeling the advances we’ve made. Parents are forced to work multiple jobs to keep up with the rising cost of everyday living expenses like groceries and gas, and are struggling to plan for long-term expenses like the cost of college, health care and retirement security. We can and we must do more to support middle-class families from San Bernardino to communities across the country. This means raising the minimum wage. It means growing small business jobs in the Inland Empire through targeted tax breaks. And it means making college affordable for every family. No parent should have to choose between sending their child to college and having reliable savings to retire. “I’m glad the president mentioned the gun violence epidemic that has touched communities across our nation, including our own. The threats we face from gun violence have long been a crisis in San Bernardino, before the terrorist attack at the Inland Regional Center, and will continue to be until we take meaningful and commonsense steps to make our neighborhoods safer. Our world is a dangerous place – as the president reminded us of the precarious position we find ourselves in as we continue to combat terrorism here and abroad. This means that we must continue to combat the Islamic State and the threat posed by radicalization, and take every opportunity to make our country and world safer for the next generation.”
01.08.2016	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar urged his colleagues in Congress to support commonsense reforms to help alleviate the country’s gun violence epidemic. “A little over a month ago, my hometown of San Bernardino fell victim to gun violence and was added to a list that no community wants to join. Aurora. Newtown. Chattanooga. Charleston. And the list goes on…and that’s the problem – the list goes on. The only action Congress has taken to address the epidemic of gun violence has been to hold moments of silence in honor of their memory,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “As a father of two young boys and as San Bernardino’s voice in Congress, I cannot be silent. We owe it our communities from San Bernardino to Newtown to do something. As one of the family members mentioned earlier in the week, 'Congress has offered their thoughts and prayers, but thoughts and prayers are cheap when you have the power they have.' While one single law could not have prevented the horrific events in San Bernardino, that doesn’t justify a refusal to take action or to make our communities safer.” Rep. Aguilar has been an advocate for commonsense reforms to reduce gun violence since he was the Mayor of Redlands, joining the Mayors Against Illegal Guns coalition. Rep. Aguilar also cosponsored the Assault Weapons Ban of 2015, which was introduced last month, and he has consistently called for expanding background checks and implementing measures to prevent guns from falling into the hands of suspected terrorists listed on the no-fly list. His remarks can be viewed in full here.
01.06.2016	Today marks one year in office for Rep. Pete Aguilar. Since his swearing-in a year ago today, Rep. Aguilar has focused on pushing legislation that supports San Bernardino County’s middle class and grows the Inland Empire economy. He’s been a champion for small businesses, veterans and working families, and has worked with his Democratic and Republican colleagues to advance meaningful legislation. Rep. Aguilar has also worked closely with federal agencies to bring critical funds back to the community and to Inland Empire residents. In his first year of office Rep. Aguilar has: Participated in 205 constituent meetings, tours and events. Held 72 mobile office hours to assist constituents. Helped 366 constituents with problems they faced with federal programs like Social Security, Medicare, veterans benefits and immigration. Returned over $1.6 million in benefits to residents, including nearly $100,000 in veterans benefits alone. Announced over $54 million in grant funding for California’s 31st Congressional District. Introduced three bills to help get the Inland Empire economy back on track through targeted tax credits for small businesses to train and hire new employees in high unemployment areas like San Bernardino, and to help businesses that have been hurt by unfair trade. Passed six amendments to put veterans back to work, investigate higher suicide rates among female veterans, support minority students pursuing STEM careers, help small businesses do business with the Department of Defense, and to help with infrastructure at the San Bernardino County International Airport. Rep. Aguilar also continued the spirit of bipartisanship that he was known for as the Mayor of Redlands, working with his Republican and Democratic colleagues to address critical issues facing the Inland Empire and the country. In 2015, Rep. Aguilar: Ranked 61st out of all House members and 21st among Congressional Democrats in number of votes breaking with his party. Ranked 5th out of California Congressional members and 4th out of California Democrats in number of votes breaking with his party. Cosponsored 136 bills, over a third of which were authored by Republicans. “I remain committed to supporting policies that will grow our economy and strengthen our middle class,” said Rep. Aguilar. He added, “I look forward to continuing that work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle and at every level of government to ensure that Inland Empire families always have a seat at the table.” Rep. Aguilar represents California’s 31st Congressional District. Prior to serving in Congress, he was the Mayor of Redlands where he resides today with his wife Alisha and their two sons.
01.06.2016	Yesterday, Rep. Pete Aguilar held a workshop for fire departments in San Bernardino County to review the application process and answer questions on federal assistance programs. The Federal Emergency Management Agency — Assistance to Firefighters Grants (FEMA-AFG ) workshop brought together local fire department representatives and FEMA staff members to have an open discussion about federal grants and assistance, both inside and outside of FEMA. “As San Bernardino’s representative, one of my most important responsibilities is to help bring crucial federal funds back to the Inland Empire, with our first responders being my top priority,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “I’m glad we were able to organize a meeting with officials from FEMA and our local fire departments to talk about the application process so we can work on bringing more dollars back to the community.” Rialto Fire Department Division Chief Sean Grayson attended the workshop and added, “Congressman Aguilar’s efforts allowed us to get additional information pertaining to FEMA-AFG grants and facilitated important regional partnering.” John Hamill, Director of External Affairs for FEMA, and Doug Woods, Regional Fire Program Specialist—AFG, were on hand to answer questions from fire department representatives on a variety of grant and assistance channels. These included: Homeland Security Grant Programs, Cost-Share Calculations, Hardship Waivers and Regional Project rules. For additional information on 2016 AFG applications and other federal grant opportunities, please visit Aguilar.house.gov.
12.16.2015	This morning, Rep. Pete Aguilar led the House of Representatives in a moment of silence in honor of those lost and affected by the terrorist attack in San Bernardino on December 2, 2015. “Mr. Speaker, today I rise with a heavy heart to pay tribute to the fourteen innocent lives lost on December 2nd in San Bernardino, California, in the terrorism attack at the Inland Regional Center. In the wake of this terrorist act, our San Bernardino community has come together and supported one another during this dark chapter of our region and our nation. Mr. Speaker, today I ask my colleagues, fellow Americans and those who hear this message around the world, to pray for the families of the fourteen victims, the speedy recovery of the 22 injured, the countless first responders who helped that day, and for the health and resilience of the San Bernardino community. In the aftermath of this pain, I have seen firsthand the tenacity and spirit of the area we call the Inland Empire. We have said loudly as one community that this tragedy will not define us and it will not divide us. We will not be afraid to come together in fellowship, to work together, to mourn together, or to rebuild together. Across faith and culture we will support one another in this time of need. Mr. Speaker, San Bernardino has been forced to soldier through difficult times before. As we face this new and different hurdle, I know my community will continue to stand together to show our country and our region the resolve of this city and of these people to heal. We are San Bernardino United. Mr. Speaker, I am joined by my colleagues and I ask the House to pause for a moment of silence in honor of those affected by the terrorist attack in San Bernardino on December 2nd.” Rep. Aguilar’s remarks can be viewed in full here.
12.06.2015	As our community mourns, we stand united and stronger than ever. I echo President Obama’s message of supporting each other as we rebuild in the aftermath of the devastating attack that took the lives of 14, injured 21 and wreaked havoc on our community. I’d also like to again recognize the heroic actions of our law enforcement officers, paramedics and firefighters who risked their lives to end the violence and tend to the wounded on Wednesday afternoon. Now more than ever, we need to come together across boundaries of religion, race and any other differences that our enemies would like to use to divide us. San Bernardino County is a community rich with diversity and history—this is something to embrace, not reject. We need to do more to combat ISIS to eliminate threats abroad and at home. As we continue to take the fight to ISIS, it is imperative that we explore every option available to the United States and our allies. This includes additional special operations forces and possible no fly zones. Additionally, in the coming days and weeks, it’s necessary for the future of our country to have meaningful conversations and action to prevent future terrorist attacks like this, and that includes reasonable changes to our nation’s gun laws. This has been a consistent problem in San Bernardino, with hundreds of gun related crimes in 2015 alone. And now, in the wake of this tragedy, we must lead and tell the nation that guns are not more valuable than lives. Tonight the President outlined some changes, like banning terror suspects on the No Fly List from buying guns and making it harder to acquire the assault weapons used to kill with lethal efficiency. As a Congressman and as a father, I believe that we can be better and do better to respond to the domestic and international threats our nation faces. As our community moves forward, we will show the country and world the resiliency of San Bernardino. We will remain unified, undeterred and unafraid.
12.03.2015	Rep. Pete Aguilar issued the following statement in response to yesterday’s attack in San Bernardino: “My heart goes out to the victims and their families during this dark time and I continue to keep them in my thoughts and prayers. I am thankful for our brave law enforcement officers, firefighters and paramedics who put their lives on the line yesterday to end the killing spree. I grew up in San Bernardino. This is the community my family has called home for four generations. There are no words to accurately convey the heartbreak I feel for my friends and neighbors as we reel from this attack. We need to acknowledge what happened yesterday for what it was: an act of terror. How many more times will we weep with our neighbors and fellow Americans while our communities are terrorized by the ongoing gun violence epidemic in this country? When will we say enough is enough? Yesterday, our community fell victim to the mass-shooting epidemic that plagues our nation. Another senseless, barbaric attack. But what’s just as tragic is that San Bernardino is no stranger to gun violence, with hundreds of gun-related crimes this year alone. After we mourn our loved ones who have been taken from us in these heinous acts of terror, we need to start taking real steps to eradicate the culture of gun violence and begin making these tragedies less routine so that our families and neighborhoods can start to feel safe again.”
12.02.2015	Rep. Pete Aguilar issued the following statement in response to the active shooting in San Bernardino: “My prayers are with the victims, families and survivors of this horrific attack. I’m on my way back to the district and am in touch with our local law enforcement to closely monitor the situation as it develops. My heart aches that the out-of-control gun violence epidemic has come to our community.”
12.02.2015	Yesterday, Rep. Pete Aguilar introduced his latest bill, H.R. 4142, the Displaced Jobs Relief Act of 2015, which will boost resources for the Trade Adjustment Assistance for Firms (TAA-F) program. The TAA for Firms program, facilitated by the U.S. Department of Commerce, offers technical assistance to businesses that—because of foreign competition—have seen significant job and sales losses. The bill increases funding authorization for the program per fiscal year from $16 million to $50 million, starting in 2016 and running through 2021. In 2009, authorization levels were set at $50 million until House Republicans cut funding levels to $16 million in Fiscal Year 2011. “As the Inland Empire fights its way back from the Great Recession, we need to make sure that we use every tool available to help our businesses recover. Small businesses were dealt heavy blows in the past decade, both from our weakened economy and from flawed trade agreements. International trade plays an important role in our economy, but history has taught us that not all agreements are fair. Sometimes they take a toll on local businesses that don’t have the ability to handle unfair foreign competition,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “That’s why I introduced this bill. Trade Adjustment Assistance has played a crucial part in retraining and placing Americans in good-paying jobs for generations. If we increase the available funds, we can help protect hardworking Americans from losing business to unfair competition overseas.” Once businesses apply for assistance, selected firms are paired with their local Trade Adjustment Assistance Centers (TAAC) to craft an economic recovery plan to help their businesses compete. The plan must be completely implemented within five years. Regional TAACs provide some financial assistance; however this is in a supportive role, not as the sole provider. Between 2007 and 2015, over 1,200 firms with total annual sales of nearly $20 billion and a combined workforce of over one hundred thousand employees benefited from Trade Adjustment Assistance. California’s regional center, the Western Trade Adjustment Assistance Center (WTAAC), has worked with over 700 businesses in its region and has specifically assisted firms in 51 of the 53 Congressional Districts, including the 31st. Getting San Bernardino County’s economy back on track is Rep. Aguilar’s top priority. That’s why weeks after taking office he convened regional Jobs Roundtables throughout the Inland Empire and released his Jobs Plan shortly thereafter. This is Rep. Aguilar’s latest bill to help businesses in the community recover and put residents back to work. Earlier this year he introduced the On-the-Job Training Tax Credit Act, which has received bipartisan support, and in July he introduced the Small Business Jobs Act. The text of the Displaced Jobs Relief Act can be read here and his remarks on the House Floor can be viewed here.
11.23.2015	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar announced that the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) awarded Social Action Community Health System (SACHS) $105,000 to go toward the development of their Community Resource Center. SACHS is located in the City of San Bernardino and is a non-profit organization that offers low-cost health care services to Inland Empire residents. “This is great news for the Inland Empire community,” said Rep. Pete Aguilar. He continued, “I’m glad to see important resources coming back to San Bernardino County to expand health care coverage for our residents.” Through funding from the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA), SACHS will offer certified specialists to help individuals in need of insurance to obtain coverage, and facilitate outreach to those eligible for affordable health insurance through health insurance marketplaces, Medicaid and the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP). SACHS also provides access to medical, dental, behavioral health, social, housing and educational services in the community. The grant will also help expand services from the current 42,000 square foot Norton facility and other sites to a new 150,000 square foot downtown campus in the City of San Bernardino. SACHS projects to enroll approximately 750 individuals into the health insurance marketplace during their first year and an additional 1,000 in the subsequent year. The Community Resource Center will help implement The ACA Health Center Outreach and Enrollment Assistance Program, which includes trained and certified outreach and enrollment personnel to help uninsured health center patients and non-health center patients through collaborative partnerships in the SAC Health System service area. According to Nancy Young, President and CEO of SACHS, “This funding will provide much-needed support to help the uninsured families in our region to obtain critical medical, dental, behavioral health and other supportive services. This can help change families' lives and make our community healthier and more vibrant.” Rep. Aguilar represents California’s 31st Congressional District. Prior to serving in Congress he was the Mayor of Redlands, where he resides today with his wife Alisha and their two sons.
11.19.2015	Rep. Pete Aguilar released the following statement after voting in favor of H.R. 4038, the American SAFE Act of 2015: “The safety of our citizens and the security of our country is my top priority. As we accept more refugees from Syria or Iraq, we must implement an additional level of security to guarantee our nation’s safety. The added level of security does not diminish our commitment to helping the innocent men, women and children fleeing the grips of Islamic State militants or the Assad regime, rather it strengthens our defense and will enable us to move forward through a safer and more secure process to relocate refugees. As we mourn those lost to terror attacks in Paris, Lebanon, and elsewhere, I remain committed to defeating ISIS and the threat posed by terrorists around the world.”
11.17.2015	Today, Reps. Pete Aguilar and Colonel Paul Cook introduced H.R. 4024, the Santa Ana Wash Plan Land Exchange Act, which is a land-use plan that allows the transfer of land between the San Bernardino Valley Water Conservation District and the Bureau of Land Management. The land exchange takes place in a designated region within the Santa Ana Wash, at the junction of the Santa Ana River and Mill Creek. Currently, land within the Santa Ana Wash is owned by both the San Bernardino Water Conservation District (the District) and the Bureau of Land Management (BLM). Parcels owned by the District are currently used for the purpose of recharging water in more than 77 basins, and also provide Riversidian Sage Scrub habitat. New lands would be set aside for conservation purposes near land managed by BLM. The wash area is occupied by two mining companies, Cemex and Robertson’s Ready Mix, which extract aggregate for cement and concrete production. The production of aggregate will support approximately $8.5 million in infrastructure projects and $36 million annually in payroll from this site alone. The exchange of land between the District and BLM will connect a patchwork of land ownership to create a consolidated open space for conservation purposes and will optimize mining efficiency and water conservation efforts. “I’m glad to have the opportunity to work with Rep. Cook and businesses, local governments and environmental groups to make this land transfer a success,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “The Wash Plan will empower industries to take root and flourish, continue investments in our transportation and infrastructure, and preserve our environment and regional wildlife. This is an important step forward for our communities.” Rep. Paul Cook said, “This important legislation will complete the land swap at the center of the Santa Ana River Wash Plan. This will align local land ownership with appropriate uses, setting aside already disturbed land for aggregate mining and setting aside important habitat for conservation purposes. It’s a win for the economy and a win for the environment. I look forward to working with Rep. Aguilar to get this done for our communities.” Robertson’s Ready Mix employs approximately 80 workers at the affected site. Property Manager Christine Goeyvaerts said, “It is with sincere appreciation that we provide our enthusiastic support for the Santa Ana River Wash Plan land exchange. From the many employees that call this site their workplace, we thank both Congressmen for their tenacity and hard work representing our area.” Daniel Cozad of the San Bernardino Water Conservation District added, “The land transfer will lead to more protection efforts for habitat, improved connectivity in the wildlife corridor, expanded water recharge and storage capacity, and the future establishment of public access and trails which, once built, would connect and help complete the Santa Ana River Trail.” He continued, “This project has been 15 years in the making. Doing a Habitat Conservation Plan with this many Task Force Members is unusual, particularly when you consider each has a different mission to implement.” In total, the land exchange will continue to support Inland Empire business and transportation projects, while safeguarding essential environmental conservation efforts. It also expands property for the development of a long-term water supply and storage. The Wash Plan has been an ongoing project since the late 1980s, when it was a proposal to the cities of Highland and Redlands. Years of meetings, studies and committee reports have culminated in the final presentation of the Upper Santa Ana River Wash Plan. While both on the Redlands City Council and as Mayor, Rep. Aguilar supported the initiative and numerous studies that went into making the Wash Plan a reality. A map of the land transfer can be found here.
11.12.2015	Earlier this month, Rep. Pete Aguilar authored an editorial for the Redlands Daily Facts entitled “Republican Attack on Planned Parenthood is Waste of Taxes and Time,” where he admonished House Republicans for prioritizing repeated attacks on women’s health over funding the federal government. Rep. Aguilar is a steadfast supporter of women’s reproductive health and is a proud member of the Pro-Choice Caucus. The full piece can be read in the Redlands Daily Facts or online here.
11.11.2015	On Veterans Day, Rep. Pete Aguilar announced the creation of his Veterans Advisory Board. The committee of local veterans, veteran assistance non-profit organizations, education facilities, and veteran employment groups met with Rep. Aguilar earlier this week in San Bernardino to discuss local and national initiatives to connect veterans with job opportunities. The Veterans Advisory Board is comprised of community members on a rotating basis to tackle a variety of issues facing veterans, including employment, health care, the VA backlog, homelessness and more. Rep. Aguilar will meet regularly with the board to address these problems facing veterans in the Inland Empire community. “Today we remember and honor our heroic service members who’ve risked and sacrificed everything to keep families in the Inland Empire like yours and mine safe and free. As we pay tribute to our men and women in uniform, we also recommit to supporting our veterans when they return,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “As we focus on getting veterans back to work, it’s important that community members weigh in on what we can do at the local and federal level. We need to expand job opportunities for veterans on the ground in the community as well as through policy in Congress. I’m grateful to have the input of our local veterans and organizations on how we can connect them with jobs, and I look forward to working together to help our veterans get access to the resources and tools they need to succeed when they come home.” Rep. Aguilar serves on the House Armed Services Committee. He’s cosponsored and supported a number of initiatives to help put veterans back to work, confront health care concerns and combat veteran homelessness. After taking office in January of this year, Rep. Aguilar convened a Veterans Roundtable to set the parameters for his Veterans Advisory Board.
11.10.2015	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar announced that the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and the U.S. Veterans Administration (VA) jointly awarded Housing Authority of the County of San Bernardino (HACSB) $405,804 to support housing vouchers for veterans. Earlier this year, Rep. Aguilar called on the House Appropriations Committee to allocate crucial funding to the HUD-Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing (HUD-VASH) program, which combines rental assistance in the form of a HUD voucher to assist homeless veterans. “I’m glad to see important funding heading to San Bernardino County veterans,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “We cannot sit back while Inland Empire veterans are left to suffer alone on the streets. Our service members risked their lives to keep our families safe and free—we owe it to them to ensure that they have the resources they need to live stable and healthy lives when they return.” “The overwhelming response from our Congressional leaders and County Supervisors in adding resources to accomplish this mission is nothing short of amazing. We have gone from over 2,600 vets on the streets in our county a few years ago to less than 150 now thanks to the laudable teamwork of many,” stated Daniel Nackerman, HACSB’s Executive Director. On the local level, the San Bernardino County leaders unanimously launched a final mission to end veterans homelessness in County at a special meeting held in July 2015. Since that declaration, the remaining number of vets to be housed is under 150 and with this federal announcement of another $405,804 granted jointly by the U.S. Veterans Administration and the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, the last battle and overall war to end veterans homelessness in San Bernardino County will soon be won. Through this new grant allocation, the Housing Authority would be able to house approximately 50 additional veterans throughout the County, bringing up the total veteran specific vouchers to 407. Since taking office in January of this year, Rep. Aguilar has made supporting veterans one of his top priorities. He cosponsored the Manufacturing Jobs for Veterans Act, which establishes a pilot program to support training, apprenticeships and certification classes for veterans. In June of this year, he passed an amendment through the House of Representatives to H.R. 2685, the Department of Defense Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2016, which requires the Department of Defense (DOD) to study the causes and ways to address the higher rate of suicide in women veterans. And just last week, Rep. Aguilar unanimously passed a bipartisan amendment to the surface transportation bill, which will help put veterans back to work by easing the process for those who drove specialized vehicles in the military to transition their skills to civilian jobs driving commercial vehicles. Rep. Aguilar also held a Veterans Roundtable in San Bernardino and convened a Veterans Advisory Board to discuss critical issues veterans face, including health care, the VA backlog, homelessness and unemployment. Rep. Aguilar serves on the House Armed Services Committee.
11.06.2015	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar hosted a Holiday Jobs Fair to connect job seekers with local businesses and organizations for employment opportunities. Rep. Aguilar, staff members and representatives from Inland Empire companies were on hand to meet with hundreds of San Bernardino County residents looking for work. “I’m grateful to all the businesses and organizations that joined us to help make this event possible,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “Directly connecting residents with job opportunities is critical to getting our economy back on track. I’m glad today was helpful for families in our community and I look forward to continuing efforts both on the ground and in Congress to help put people back to work.” Rep. Aguilar has made job creation a top priority since taking office earlier this year. He’s introduced two bills that focus on creating jobs, the On-the-Job Training Tax Credit Act and the Small Business Jobs Act, which incentivize local businesses to train and hire more employees and provide a tax break to geographically targeted businesses in areas with high unemployment rates. Both of Aguilar’s bills and the jobs fair were proposed in his Jobs Plan, which was released in April of this year. It can be read in full here.
11.05.2015	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar voted in favor of H.R. 22, the Surface Transportation Reauthorization and Reform Act of 2015. For months, Rep. Aguilar has continuously called on Congress to forgo short-term solutions to the transportation bill and focus on a long-term plan that allows cities and towns in San Bernardino County—and across the country— to plan and execute crucial infrastructure projects. The bipartisan bill reauthorizes funding for roads, rails and bridge projects for the next six years. “This long-term solution is critical for San Bernardino County, where federal funds assist important local projects such as the I-215 Bi-County HOV lane project,” said Aguilar. He added, “I’m glad Congress came together to see this through and I will continue to work with my Democratic and Republican colleagues to create jobs by ensuring that our roads, rails and bridges are safe and secure for the millions of working families and businesses that depend on them each and every day.” The bill contains an important amendment offered by Rep. Aguilar which will help put veterans back to work. The amendment, which unanimously passed the House yesterday afternoon, will facilitate the process for veterans who drove specialized vehicles in the military to transition those skills to civilian jobs driving commercial vehicles. Rep. Aguilar debated the amendment on the floor, which can be viewed here. The highway reauthorization bill passed the House of Representatives on a 363 to 64 vote. It will now move to a conference between the House and the Senate for final negotiations.
11.04.2015	Today, the House of Representatives passed Rep. Pete Aguilar’s amendment to the transportation bill to put veterans back to work. The amendment assists veterans by making it easier for those who drove specialized vehicles in the military to transition these skills to civilian jobs driving commercial vehicles. Rep. Aguilar’s legislation will help veterans obtain commercial driver’s licenses, as recommended in a report commissioned by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration two years ago. The report, which can be read here, was completed at the direction of the last surface transportation bill. Rep. Aguilar’s legislation directs the Department of Transportation (DOT) and the Department Of Defense (DOD) to work together to implement the report’s recommendations to help veterans more easily translate their military skills into commercial driver’s licenses. “We need to do better by our men and women in uniform who risked and sacrificed so much to keep us safe and free. As we focus on growing our economy, we need to keep our veterans in mind as we seek to expand job opportunities. Many veterans who drove specialized vehicles in the military struggle to put these skills to work when they return home because of unnecessary and burdensome regulations. My amendment makes it easier for veterans to put those skills into practice,” said Aguilar. Rep. Aguilar’s bipartisan amendment was unanimously adopted and added to the surface transportation bill, which reauthorizes funding for projects on roads, rails and bridges in San Bernardino County and throughout the nation for six years. The House will continue to debate amendments to the bill, H.R. 22, and final passage of the bill is expected tomorrow. After the House passes the bill, it will move to the Senate for consideration. Rep. Aguilar’s full remarks can be viewed here.
10.28.2015	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar issued the following statement after voting in favor of the two-year, bipartisan budget deal: “Today’s agreement shows us what is possible when Democrats and Republicans come together. While it is not perfect, this bipartisan budget deal accomplishes important objectives for the future of our country. It protects and improves Social Security and Medicare, increases funding levels for both domestic and defense programs for the next two years, creates more economic security and prevents our government from defaulting on its debt. This was about fulfilling our duty to the American people and upholding the full faith and credit of the United States. This bipartisan agreement shows us that Congress can govern responsibly and achieve long-term solutions when we work together. I look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to avoid a government shutdown and pass a final funding bill using the budget blueprint set by this agreement.” The bipartisan budget deal is a two-year agreement that fixes the spending caps that have prevented Congress from passing a year-long funding bill. It allows the United States to circumvent a default by extending the nation’s borrowing limit until March 2017. Rep. Aguilar voted in favor of the deal, which passed the House of Representatives with a vote of 266 to 167. The bill now moves to the Senate for consideration.
10.27.2015	Last week, Rep. Pete Aguilar joined members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus and the Joint Economic Committee to introduce a new report that examined access to economic opportunity for Latinos in America. Rep. Aguilar focused on the need to invest in education at every level as well as workforce training to ensure that Latinos throughout the nation have access and opportunity to succeed in today’s economy. California’s 31st Congressional District is over fifty percent Hispanic or Latino. Cassie MacDuff with the Press-Enterprise highlighted Rep. Aguilar’s announcement. Read about it here or in the Press-Enterprise.
10.26.2015	On Saturday, Rep. Pete Aguilar met with World War II veterans hailing from San Bernardino, Los Angeles and Orange Counties. Honor Flight Southland, a chapter of the Honor Flight Network, facilitated the trip that included the World War II Memorial in Washington, D.C. as well as other historical landmarks. Rep. Aguilar stayed in Washington, D.C. to join veterans, their family members, and volunteers for dinner and to thank them for their service. “While we can never repay our veterans for their heroism and bravery, we’re fortunate to have organizations like Honor Flight Southland that allow us to show our appreciation through efforts like this,” said Aguilar. He added, “I’m grateful to have been included in their program and to have the opportunity to personally thank our veterans for their service. I look forward to participating in more events like this in the future.” Co-Founder and Chairman of Honor Flight Southland Craig Van Doren said, “We appreciate Rep. Aguilar taking the time to meet with this group of our most humble heroes. His commitment to the issues concerning our veterans is important to them, and signifies a goal of supporting those who either risk or have risked their lives for our country. It’s important we don’t lose focus and forget that the veterans keep America safe from those who wish to see us fail.” Rep. Aguilar gave the keynote address at the dinner on Saturday night. He highlighted his commitment to improving resources and access to care for veterans, as well as his legislative record, which includes working with Rep. Paul Cook (CA-08) to expand the Work for Warriors program. Rep. Aguilar serves on the House Armed Services Committee. The Honor Flight is a non-profit organization that raises funds to coordinate visits for World War II veterans to visit the nation’s capital. It has chapters across the country, including the Inland Empire. If you or someone you know is a World War II veteran and would like to learn more about Honor Flight Southland, please contact Craig Van Doren at 949-310-6143 or at HonorFlightSouthland@yahoo.com
10.23.2015	On Friday, November 6th Rep. Aguilar will host a Holiday Jobs Fair to connect job seekers with local employers for work opportunities. Rep. Aguilar, staff members and representatives from Inland Empire businesses will be available to meet with residents looking for employment. “I’m glad we’re able to do this for our community,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “This is an opportunity to connect job seekers with employers and the resources they need to find work here in the Inland Empire. When I took office, I promised residents that I would do everything I can to put people back to work and get our economy moving again, and that’s why I’m hosting this jobs fair.” Rep. Aguilar has been a fierce advocate for job creation in the Inland Empire and throughout the nation. He’s introduced two bills since he was sworn in earlier this year, the On-the-Job Training Tax Credit Act and the Small Business Jobs Act, which incentivize local businesses to train and hire more employees and provide a tax break to geographically targeted businesses in areas with high unemployment rates. Both bills and the jobs fair were laid out in his Jobs Plan, which was released in April of this year. It can be read in full here. Rep. Aguilar is hosting his Holiday Jobs Fair on Friday, November 6th from 9:00AM to 12:00PM at Inghram Community Center in San Bernardino. The facility is located at 2050 North Mount Vernon Avenue. Admission is free and no RSVP is required. For additional information about the event, please contact Rep. Aguilar’s office at 909-890-4445.
10.22.2015	Yesterday, Rep. Pete Aguilar spoke at a press conference with the Congressional Hispanic Caucus and Rep. Carolyn Maloney (NY-12), the ranking Democratic Member of the Joint Economic Committee. The press conference focused on a new report conducted by the committee, entitled “The Economic State of the Latino Community in America,” which highlights the obstacles that Latinos and Latinas face for accessing education and economic opportunity. “The Joint Economic Committee’s report tells us a great deal about the economic struggles the Latino community faces each and every day in the workforce—it’s something we know all too well in San Bernardino. While we have certainly fought our way back with the help of incredible community organizations, local leaders, and our tireless residents, we still have further to go,” said Aguilar. He continued, “There is so much potential in the Latino community, which we can see in this new study. There is opportunity for Latinos if we invest at every stage—from early education, to k-12, to college, to workforce training—we need to put in the effort to continue to get our community where it needs to be. As we move into an increasingly competitive economy, it’s essential that we keep this momentum going and continue to work together to broaden opportunities for Latinos and Latinas in every community across the country.” According to the Kauffman Index of Entrepreneurial Activity, which is cited in the Joint Economic Committee’s report, Hispanics are more than 1.5 times more likely to become an entrepreneur than the rest of the population. It also found that Hispanics have outpaced all other major racial or ethnic groups for entrepreneurs over the past few years. The study can be read in full here. Rep. Aguilar co-chairs the Economic Development and Workforce Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, which focuses on economic opportunities for Hispanic men and women throughout the United States. Recent Census data shows that California’s 31st Congressional District is over fifty percent Hispanic or Latino.
10.21.2015	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar announced that the Department of Justice awarded over one million dollars to the County of San Bernardino to invest in public safety initiatives. The funds were dispersed in two different allotments—the first is for $478,327 and will go to the San Bernardino County Sheriff’s Department Crime Laboratory to help increase efficiency in the unit and reduce the backlog of DNA cases. The second grant is for $582,145 and will assist the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program (JAG), which will allow the county to invest in a wide array of necessary resources including equipment, police vehicles and to hire additional officers. “Investing in public safety is critical for the Inland Empire community,” said Rep. Aguilar. He added, “We need to make sure that our police departments have the resources and tools they need to do their jobs safely and efficiently at every level.” “These funds will allow the laboratory to obtain much needed robotic equipment that will be used to increase the number of DNA cases analyzed and reduce the backlog of cases awaiting analysis,” stated Sheriff John McMahon. Rep. Aguilar serves California’s 31st Congressional District. He sits on the House Armed Services and Agriculture Committees. Prior to serving in Congress he was the Mayor of Redlands, where he resides today with his wife Alisha and two sons.
10.19.2015	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar stopped by Los Amigos Elementary School in Rancho Cucamonga to visit and read with second and third grade students. Aguilar, a steadfast supporter of increased investments in k-12 schools, read House Mouse, Senate Mouse with the students, a well-known children’s book that explains the legislative process to kids. “I’ve got two elementary school students at home, so I know how important it is to invest in education early,” said Rep. Aguilar, who has two school-aged sons. He continued, “Our kids are the future—we need to make sure that we give them every opportunity to learn and thrive, and that starts with having the resources they need to succeed in the classroom.” Rep. Aguilar read to students from second and third grade classes in Los Amigos Elementary School’s “Dragon Den” library. Today was the first of many elementary school visits for Rep. Aguilar, who is traveling across the district to read with students and highlight the importance of investing in education, from pre-k through college.
10.16.2015	Yesterday, Rep. Pete Aguilar continued his “Coffee with your Congressman” series by meeting with students at Chaffey College in Rancho Cucamonga. Since taking office earlier this year, Rep. Aguilar has held personal gatherings with constituents in communities across the Inland Empire. The program was inspired by “Coffee with the Council,” which Rep. Aguilar started when he served on the Redlands City Council. “It was great to have the opportunity to hear directly from students about a wide variety of issues facing young people today. One of the most common things we hear from students is college affordability. I get it—I’ve been in their shoes. I know what it’s like to stress over where the money is going to come from each semester for books and to register for courses,” said Rep. Aguilar. He added, “I was also impressed at the other issues students wanted to talk about, from immigration reform to workforce training to gun control. These are critical issues that affect people of every generation.” Jazmin Bravo was one of the many students who attended. She is the founder of the DREAMers Club, a student organization that educates students about the plight of DREAMers and the opportunities that are available for undocumented students like her. Jazmin shared her personal story with Rep. Aguilar of coming to the United States with her mom when she was a little girl. She explained that it was through the help of her teachers—one in particular—who helped her succeed in the classroom. A Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) recipient, Jazmin described the disadvantages she faced financially when applying to schools. “I learned that most of the benefits people had only applied to those who were born here and wouldn’t apply to me. It really discouraged me from seeking further education since I knew I wouldn’t be able to pay for it,” said Jazmin. She continued, “Having Pete Aguilar’s support in our goals makes it that much more rewarding and we appreciate him coming to talk to students because we have a voice too. The struggles we face only make us fight stronger for our education.” Comprehensive immigration reform with a pathway to citizenship and improving our education system are top priorities for Rep. Aguilar. Throughout Hispanic Heritage Month, Rep. Aguilar spoke with families throughout the Inland Empire to learn more about their experiences with the immigration process. He has also been a continued supporter of investing more in education, from pre-k through college.
10.15.2015	As Hispanic Heritage Month draws to a close, Rep. Pete Aguilar (CA-31) continued his conversations with Inland Empire families caught in the immigration crisis. Throughout the month, Rep. Aguilar spoke with a number of families throughout San Bernardino County that have been personally involved with the immigration process. This week he spoke with Francisco Sandoval of Highland. Francisco and his wife Bertha became United States citizens when President Ronald Reagan signed the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 into law. “Francisco’s experience reminds us that immigration reform shouldn’t be a partisan matter—his story should be an example to my colleagues in Congress about what both Republicans and Democrats can accomplish on this issue,” said Rep. Aguilar. He added, “I was also struck by Francisco’s honesty—his frustration with not just how badly the system needs to be improved, but with how desperately we as a people need to stop stigmatizing immigrants for wanting the same thing our ancestors sought: a better life.” “I’m proud to be an American—I love this country. To me, what’s most upsetting is how we treat each other and how people see immigration as a ‘Latino’ problem,” said Mr. Sandoval. He added, “It saddens me to see how people look at each other and treat them differently based on assumptions of where they come from. It’s not fair—this country belongs to us all.” Rep. Aguilar’s conversation with Mr. Sandoval was the fourth discussion in a series of talks facilitated by the Coalition for Humane Immigration Rights for Los Angeles (CHIRLA), enabling Inland Empire residents affected by the immigration crisis to communicate directly with Rep. Aguilar. Throughout Hispanic Heritage Month, Rep. Aguilar has spoken with families throughout San Bernardino County to highlight the need for comprehensive immigration reform with a pathway to citizenship.
10.08.2015	This week, Rep. Pete Aguilar continued to observe Hispanic Heritage Month through conversations with Inland Empire families affected by the immigration crisis. His latest discussion was with Ernesto Cristotomo of San Bernardino, who would be eligible for Deferred Action for Parent of Americans (DAPA) under President Obama’s executive orders. Mr. Cristotomo has three children, one of whom is eligible for Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) and two who are United States citizens. “It’s important to stay connected with families and hear their personal stories—to have a firm understanding of the hardships they face,” said Aguilar. He continued, “I appreciate Ernesto taking the time to share his real fears and struggles, the same uncertainties that so many undocumented mothers, fathers and children experience throughout San Bernardino County every day.” “It was nice talking with Congressman Aguilar about my family. I have three children. The fear of being taken away from them terrifies me. I want to be able to go out and live freely with my family in our community without worrying about what could happen,” said Mr. Cristotomo. Rep. Aguilar’s conversation with Mr. Cristotomo was the third discussion in a series of storytelling to highlight Hispanic Heritage Month, and was facilitated by the Coalition for Humane Immigration Rights for Los Angeles (CHIRLA). Rep. Aguilar is a supporter of comprehensive immigration reform with a pathway to citizenship.
10.07.2015	Yesterday, Rep. Pete Aguilar led the K-12 education panel on the academic success of Latino students at the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute’s annual national conference. The panel, moderated by Rep. Aguilar, also featured U.S. Deputy Secretary of Education John B. King, Jr., San Bernardino County Superintendent of Schools Ted Alejandre, Vice President to College Board’s Access to Opportunity program Steve Colon, Senior Fellow at UC Berkeley Center for Latin American Studies Maria Echaveste, Board Member of the California Teachers Association Marty G. Meeden, and Joaquin Nuño-Whelan, who serves as a Chief Engineer at General Motors Global Product Development. “This was a great opportunity to hear from voices across the spectrum on what we can do to help Latino students thrive in the classroom,” said Rep. Aguilar. He added, “We need to make sure we’re investing in our kids at every step, from pre-k through college. I have two sons in public school—this is personal to me.” San Bernardino County Superintendent of Schools Ted Alejandre said, "I was honored to be among the speakers on yesterday’s Education Summit panel chaired by Congressman Pete Aguilar to discuss current challenges and promising initiatives that address the needs of Latino students. The more we inform leaders and policy makers, and build community and family awareness of both the needs and also the best practices to spur the educational achievement of underserved students, the greater the opportunities for success for students and the stronger our workforce." Rep. Aguilar is an avid supporter of early childhood education. He’s also backed a number of initiatives to invest in education at every level, including the All-Year ACCESS Act and the America’s College Promise Act, which expand access to Pell Grants and make two years of community college free. Later in the afternoon, Rep. Aguilar participated in a panel with fellow freshmen members Reps. Norma Torres (CA-35) and Ruben Gallego (AZ-07), where he highlighted education and comprehensive immigration reform as important issues for the Latino community today.
10.05.2015	On Saturday, Rep. Pete Aguilar held his first annual Fall Academy Day for Inland Empire students interested in attending U.S. Service Academies. Representatives from the United States Military Academy at West Point, United States Naval Academy, United States Coast Guard Academy and the United States Air Force Academy were on site for information sessions and to answer questions from students. “One of my priorities is to expand higher education opportunities for students, which includes connecting them with information to make smart decisions about their future,” said Rep. Aguilar. He added, “It was wonderful to see so many Inland Empire students who are interested in serving our nation—I know they’ll make us all very proud.” Over fifty students attended the session, which was held Saturday morning in Redlands. For additional information about applying to U.S. Service Academies, please contact Rep. Aguilar’s district office at 909-890-4445 or visit Aguilar.house.gov.
10.02.2015	Throughout Hispanic Heritage Month, Rep. Pete Aguilar is speaking with Inland Empire families to hear their personal stories of coming to the United States and their journey toward citizenship. Last week he spoke with Josefina Laguna of Redlands who would be eligible for Deferred Action for Parents of Americans (DAPA) under the President’s executive orders, which were issued last year. This week, Rep. Aguilar spoke with Blanca Becerril. Blanca and her husband Alberto are undocumented and would also be eligible for DAPA. They are San Bernardino residents and have three children who are United States citizens. “Blanca’s personal story reaffirms my support for programs like DAPA and DACA and furthers my commitment to fighting for comprehensive immigration reform. We need to have a system in place that recognizes the hard work and willingness of people to have legal status so we can keep families together and grow our community,” said Rep. Pete Aguilar. “My children are six, three and two. I want them to continue their education and graduate from university. I’m taking English classes so I can help them with their homework,” said Blanca. She continued, “My six year old is very smart and has a natural gift for talking with people—I push him to study hard so he can do well in school. If he keeps at it, I think he could be our President one day.” Blanca and her husband Alberto reside in San Bernardino. Alberto just finished a program to get his contracting license in California. Rep. Aguilar’s conversation with Ms. Becerril was facilitated by the Coalition for Human Immigration Rights of Los Angeles (CHIRLA). He supports comprehensive immigration reform and took a lead role in February of this year during the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) showdown when House Republicans threatened to shut down the agency in an effort to reverse President Obama’s executive orders on immigration.
10.01.2015	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar announced that on Saturday, October 3rd, his office will hold a Fall Academy Day for Inland Empire students interested in attending U.S. Service Academies. Representatives from the United States Military Academy at West Point, United States Naval Academy, United States Coast Guard Academy, United States Air Force Academy and the United States Merchant Marine Academy will be on hand to answer questions. “This is a great opportunity to connect students with the information and resources they need to make important decisions about their future,” said Rep. Aguilar. He added, “U.S. Service Academies empower and prepare students with crucial skills and certifications they’ll need to excel in a career with our Armed Forces.” Rep. Aguilar is hosting the workshop for students interested in attending U.S. Service Academies. It will be held from 9:00AM to 11:00AM at Citrus Valley High School, located at 800 West Pioneer Avenue in Redlands. Rep. Aguilar, staff and military representatives will be on site to answer questions and hold information sessions on the admission timeline, admission requirements and preparation, the application process, course loads, available degrees, expectations and more. For additional information about the workshop, please contact Rep. Aguilar’s office at 909-890-4445.
09.30.2015	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar announced that the U.S. Department of Commerce has awarded Loma Linda University Health more than $1.4 million in grant funding for construction and infrastructure investments for the Loma Linda University Health—San Bernardino Campus. The grant will be facilitated by the U.S. Economic Development Administration (EDA). “Loma Linda University Health is a top medical facility and plays an important role in our regional economy, so to see federal funds going toward such an important economic driver for the Inland Empire is great news,” said Rep. Aguilar. He added, “This grant will allow us to invest in our workforce, improve local infrastructure projects and create hundreds of new jobs in San Bernardino.” Richard H. Hart, MD, DrPH, president of Loma Linda University Health, said the grant will be instrumental in building a new facility in downtown San Bernardino, which is scheduled to be completed in Spring of 2016. “We are tremendously grateful to Rep. Aguilar’s efforts and to the Commerce Department for this support of our initiative to bring health care and education to those in need in the San Bernardino area.” The grant for Loma Linda University Health is for $1,437,132 and will create new jobs in San Bernardino. The new San Manuel Gateway College will offer local high school students and recent graduates the opportunity to train for immediate entry-level jobs in the health care industry, which is the fastest growing sector of the Inland Empire economy. In addition to the San Manuel Gateway College (which takes its name from the San Manuel Band of Mission Indians who made a $10 million gift toward its construction), LLUH-San Bernardino will house the expanded SAC Health Clinic. The clinic is already the largest provider of Medi-Cal services in San Bernardino. Rep. Aguilar wrote a letter of support for the award earlier this year. In his Jobs Plan, released in April, Rep. Aguilar cited workforce training and investments in infrastructure projects as key elements to getting the Inland Empire economy back on track.
09.28.2015	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar announced that the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) awarded Redlands Municipal Airport over one hundred thousand dollars to install a runway lighting system to improve safe airfield operations during low visibility conditions. The grant for Redlands Municipal Airport comes on the heels of similar investments in San Bernardino International Airport (SBD), which was awarded funds last week to renovate its taxiway. “Investing in transportation and infrastructure plays a significant role in growing the Inland Empire economy. I’m glad to see federal funds going toward improving Redlands Municipal Airport and look forward to working with our state and local leaders to improve our roads, rails, bridges and air transportation for San Bernardino County families,” said Rep. Aguilar. Redlands Mayor Paul Foster said, “We appreciate Congressman Aguilar’s continued support for the City of Redlands. This federal grant will assist the City as we continue to make improvements to the Redlands Municipal Airport, which is an asset to the City, its residents and local businesses as well as to the region’s transportation needs.” Rep. Aguilar is a steadfast supporter of investing in transportation and infrastructure, making it a vital component in his Jobs Plan that he released earlier this year. He is an advocate for long-term funding for the Highway Trust Fund and he’s a cosponsor of legislation to create a National Infrastructure Bank.
09.24.2015	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar (CA-31) announced that the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) awarded a $1.3 million federal grant to the San Bernardino International Airport (SBD). The funds will go toward repairing and updating 22,300 feet of taxiway to ensure safe conditions for departing and arriving aircraft, and for airport personnel. Located on the former site of the Norton Air Force Base, SBD today primarily serves cargo and private aircraft. “I’m glad the FAA made this critical investment in San Bernardino International Airport,” said Rep. Aguilar. He added, “Improving our roads, rails, bridges and air transportation is key to getting our regional economy back on track and connecting the Inland Empire with the rest of the state and country.” SBIAA Commission President, Mayor Carey Davis said, “We extend our utmost appreciation to the Federal Aviation Administration who worked closely with SBIAA to ensure that this important airport improvement project received the attention and funding it deserved.” Inland Valley Development Agency (IVDA) and SBD International Airport Executive Director, Michael Burrows added, “This FAA grant will increase the lifespan of SBD’s taxiway system, ensuring continued reliability in SBD’s first-class facilities for aviation users and the traveling public.” Since taking office in January, Rep. Aguilar has prioritized investing in transportation and infrastructure, making it a central component of his Jobs Plan. He cosponsored legislation to create a National Infrastructure Bank and is a tireless advocate for long-term funding for the Highway Trust Fund.
09.24.2015	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar (CA-31) released the following statement in response to Pope Francis’ historic speech before a joint meeting of Congress: “Pope Francis is a global voice and a moral influence on a number of issues facing our world today, including climate change and immigration reform. His vision of bringing the international community together to confront these challenges—to be proactive in protecting our environment and to show humanity and kindness to those seeking a better life in a new world—is one I share with him. I’m grateful to have had the opportunity to bear witness to His Holiness’ visit and look forward to working with my colleagues in Congress to address these issues.” Since taking office in January, Rep. Aguilar has been an advocate for strengthened environmental protections and comprehensive immigration reform that includes a pathway to citizenship. He voted to support the President’s Clean Power Plan to combat climate change, and he was a leading voice for the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program when Republicans attempted to shut down the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) in an effort to roll back protections for new immigrants. Prior to serving in Congress, he was the Mayor of Redlands, where he resides today with his wife Alisha and two sons.
09.23.2015	Throughout Hispanic Heritage Month, Rep. Pete Aguilar is speaking with Inland Empire families to hear their personal stories of coming to the United States and their journey toward citizenship. Aguilar—an ardent supporter of comprehensive immigration reform that includes a pathway to citizenship—spoke earlier this week with Josefina Laguna, a Redlands resident. Ms. Laguna would be eligible for Deferred Action for Parents of Americans and Lawful Permanent Residents (DAPA) under President Obama’s executive orders. “I want to have the opportunity to hear directly from families about what they’re going through, from the process itself to what they’re seeing and feeling in the community,” said Aguilar. He continued, “I’m so grateful that Josefina shared her story with me, a tale we’ve heard so many times throughout our district. Stories and families like hers are what make us see how personal and critical immigration reform is for our community because at the root of it all, this is about keeping families together and bringing them into our community.” Ms. Laguna lives in Redlands and has four children, all of whom are eligible for Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA). Her youngest daughter is 19 years old and is currently a student at the University of Redlands. Ms. Laguna said, “We came here because my husband, he was a bookkeeper from Mexico, and the company he worked for closed. So that’s why he tried to come here. And then after that I came here. Our family came here. I’m so happy with the opportunities we’ve been given since coming here. It’s hard with the papers. We are waiting, but I believe—I hope— it will be better for the next generation.” Rep. Aguilar’s conversation with Ms. Laguna was facilitated by the Coalition for Humane Immigration Rights of Los Angeles (CHIRLA). Rep. Aguilar is a firm supporter of comprehensive immigration reform. He took a lead role earlier this year during the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) showdown when House Republicans nearly forced a shutdown of the agency in an attempt to roll back the President’s executive orders on immigration. ###
09.22.2015	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar (CA-31) honored local heroes, Detective Justin Musella and Deputy Arturo Ramirez for courageous acts in the line of duty. Aguilar joined the San Bernardino County Sheriff’s Department for the ceremony, accompanied by Rep. Paul Cook (CA-08) and Rep. Ken Calvert (CA-42) who honored Detective Larry Lopez and Deputy Daniel Rosa from their home districts. “Detective Musella and Deputy Ramirez are heroes who showed true courage in the line of duty. We are forever grateful to them for their bravery, sacrifice and service to the Inland Empire community,” said Rep. Aguilar. Detective Justin Musella was awarded the Congressional Badge of Bravery for his heroic actions during the shootout with Christopher Dorner in February of 2013, where he risked his life to save his fellow deputies. Deputy Arturo Ramirez was honored for his brave response that saved multiple lives in a Victorville fire in June of the same year. The Federal Law Enforcement Congressional Badge of Bravery was established in 2008. It pays tribute to exceptional acts of bravery in the line of duty by federal, state and local law enforcement officers. Congressional representatives present recipients with the awards every year, which are formally granted by the U.S. Attorney General.
09.21.2015	In its latest issue out last week, El Chicano highlights Representative Pete Aguilar’s (CA-31) journey to Congress. Focusing on his path to a life in public service, the profile outlines the Congressman’s humble beginnings in San Bernardino as well as his thoughts on being a role model for the rising Latino generation in the Inland Empire. Rep. Aguilar took office in January of this year and sits on the House Armed Services and Agriculture Committees. Prior to serving in Congress, he was the Mayor of Redlands, where he resides today with his wife Alisha and two sons. Anthony Victoria has the story, which can be read in El Chicano or online here.
09.17.2015	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar (CA-31) led the discussion on the importance of investing in education for Latino students during a Hispanic Heritage Month press conference held by the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. “It’s a critical time for Latinos in America. To talk about where we’re headed, we need to talk about where we’ve begun. We walk in the footsteps of giants: Cesare Chavez, Justice Sotomayor, Dolores Huerta, and the list goes on. We need a generation that can keep that going. We need leaders who can—if we invest in them now—who can lead us into the future. We can’t afford to miss that chance,” said Aguilar. He continued, “College affordability is a big piece for me personally. I know what it’s like to balance studying in school and working part time just to make ends meet. I was one of the lucky ones. I had a Pell Grant to help me along the way. But students shouldn’t have to be lucky. No student should be denied a quality education because he or she can’t afford it. We’re better than that. Every kid—whether you grow up in New York City or whether you grow up in San Bernardino, California—you deserve a chance at the American Dream.” Aguilar also highlighted the importance of early childhood education, investments in underprivileged K-12 schools and free community college as critical pieces to improving education in the United States for Latino students. Rep. Aguilar is a steadfast supporter of increasing opportunity in the classroom—he cosponsored the All-Year ACCESS Act, which increases access to Pell Grants and he cosponsored the America’s College Promise Act of 2015, which provides two years of free community college and puts low-income students on the road to achieving a four-year college degree. Earlier this year, Rep. Aguilar held a student loan workshop for students affected by the closure of Everest College. He’s a cosponsor of the Protections and Regulations for Our Students (PRO) Act, which sets up accountability measures for for-profit colleges like Everest and strengthens whistleblower protections for students and staff.
09.16.2015	U.S. Representatives Pete Aguilar (D-San Bernardino), Ken Calvert (R-Corona), and Paul Cook (R-Apple Valley) will award the Congressional Badge of Bravery to four San Bernardino County Sheriff’s deputies during a ceremony on Tuesday, September 22. Three of the deputies will be recognized for their actions during the Christopher Dorner manhunt in 2013. A fourth deputy will be honored for rescuing occupants of a Victorville apartment who were trapped during a fire. Established in 2008, the Federal Law Enforcement Congressional Badge of Bravery honors exceptional acts of bravery in the line of duty by federal, state, and local law enforcement officers. The medals are awarded annually by the U.S. Attorney General and are presented by the recipients’ Congressional representatives. Detective Larry Lopez, Detective Justin Musella, and Deputy Daniel Rosa will be awarded the Congressional Badge of Bravery for their heroic actions to save the lives of fellow deputies during a shootout with Christopher Dorner on February 12, 2013. After detectives Alex Collins and Jeremiah MacKay were seriously wounded by the assailant, Lopez, Musella, and Rosa coordinated a plan to provide concealment so that the injured deputies could be extracted. Once a smoke screen was deployed, all three deputies left their positions of cover, exposing themselves to the assailant’s gunfire, and dragged Collins and MacKay to safer positions. Despite their efforts, MacKay succumbed to his injuries. On June 15, 2013, Deputy Arturo Ramirez was dispatched to a fire at a Victorville apartment. Upon arriving on scene, Ramirez was advised that occupants of the apartment were trapped inside. Realizing that the fire was growing quickly, Ramirez ran inside the structure and rescued four residents, including a five-month old and a toddler. Once outside, the occupants notified Ramirez that another young child was trapped inside. Again, he rushed inside the apartment and successfully extracted the young girl who was reunited with her family. For his efforts to rescue the family, Ramirez will receive the Congressional Badge of Bravery. Lopez, Musella, Ramirez, and Rosa will each receive the Congressional Badge of Bravery during a 9:00AM press conference at the San Bernardino County Sheriff’s Department headquarters, located at 655 East Third Street in San Bernardino, on Tuesday, September 22.
09.16.2015	Yesterday, Reps. Pete Aguilar (CA-31) and Jeff Denham (CA-10) sat down with local leaders of the Rail to Redlands Working Group and the County of San Bernardino to discuss the status of the Redlands Passenger Rail Project. Prior to serving in Congress, Rep. Aguilar was the Mayor of Redlands and a San Bernardino Associated Government (SANBAG) member, and had a part in the inception of the Redlands Passenger Rail Project. “I’m proud to have played a role in this project when I was Mayor and I’m glad to have the opportunity to continue that work at the federal level with my colleagues, including Rep. Denham. The Redlands Passenger Rail will create economic opportunities in the Inland Empire, provide safe and reliable transportation for working families, ease traffic, and benefit the environment by curbing greenhouse gas emissions and improving air quality,” said Rep. Aguilar. Rep. Jeff Denham added, “The Rail to Redlands project is an example of how targeted local passenger rail can positively impact the daily lives of Californians who rely on rail to get to and from work, school and their families. I supported the Passenger Rail Reform and Investment Act earlier this year because it will improve infrastructure and streamline local, state and federal coordination, enabling Redlands to continue to invest in local rail projects.” San Bernardino County Supervisor James Ramos said, “We were very excited to have both Congressman Aguilar and Congressman Denham join our working group meeting this afternoon. Congressman Aguilar has been a key member of our group since the beginning of the project. We definitely appreciate his continued support and his advocacy of the Redlands Passenger Rail Project at the federal level. We thank both Congressman Aguilar and Congressman Denham for their participation and for sharing their knowledge of federal legislation regarding rail and transit projects with our working group members.” Rep. Aguilar is a staunch supporter of investing in transportation and infrastructure. Since taking office in January, he’s cosponsored legislation to create a National Infrastructure Bank, voted in favor of reauthorizing Amtrak and passenger rails through 2019, and has continuously advocated for long term funding for the Highway Trust Fund. Earlier this year, Rep. Pete Aguilar sent a letter to US Secretary of Transportation Anthony Foxx in support of SANBAG’s Transportation Improvement Generating Economy Recovery (TIGER) grant application for the Redlands Passenger Rail Project.
09.15.2015	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar released a video message in honor of Hispanic Heritage Month, which is celebrated from September 15th – October 15th: “During Hispanic Heritage month, we celebrate the courageous men and women who’ve dedicated their lives and careers to fighting for equality for Latino men and women across the country. From Cesar Chavez and Dolores Huerta inspiring a nation during the Chicano Civil Rights Movement, to Justice Sotomayor becoming the first Latina Supreme Court Justice, to California’s own Juan Felipe Herrera, the United States’ first Latino Poet Laureate, we have come so far as a community and have taken on roles that have shaped the cultural, social and political world of today,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “I’m proud of my heritage and my family, and I’m honored to serve California’s 31st congressional district. I will never forget those who helped me get to where I am today, from my family to the program directors at the Inland Empire Future Latino Leaders Program, who mentored me and countless other young students and created an environment dedicated to raising the Latino community up and inspiring students to lead. I hope that I can pay it forward and do for other young Latinos what they did for me. ” Rep. Aguilar’s video message can be viewed in full here.
09.08.2015	As Congress resumes session on Tuesday, Rep. Aguilar reflected on the August Recess, where he spent the month holding constituent service events, touring and visiting local manufacturers and healthcare facilities, and hosted a cabinet secretary in the Inland Empire to highlight opportunities for small business owners. “While I’m home most weekends, having the extra time in August to meet with residents and discuss the issues that matter to them and their families is what this is all about. I was glad to have the opportunity to sit down with folks at our Senior Fair to talk about their Medicare, Social Security and veterans benefits claims,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “I was also grateful to have U.S. Small Business Administrator Maria Contreras-Sweet join us to discuss ways we can help Inland Empire businesses grow their workforce, and increase their access to credit and capital. Connecting our residents to federal agencies so we can support middle-class families and grow our local economy has always been my priority, and I’m glad that during this August recess I was able to be on the ground to personally help folks do just that.” During the month of August, Rep. Aguilar held constituent events, visited businesses and healthcare facilities, and met with city leaders on critical issues including transportation and homelessness. Included among these events were an open house in the San Bernardino office, Rep. Aguilar’s first annual Senior Fair, a visit from the U.S. Small Business Administrator Maria Contreras-Sweet, visits to local manufacturer Gentex and business Gate City Beverage Distributors, and tours of Loma Linda University Children’s Hospital, the Community Hospital of San Bernardino, and the Homeless Access Center. Rep. Aguilar also delivered the keynote address at the Inland Empire Jobs Corps’ commencement ceremony. While the August recess has ended, Rep. Aguilar will be back in the district this weekend, holding a “Coffee with Your Congressman” at Corky’s Kitchen and Bakery in Rialto on Saturday at 9:00AM.
09.03.2015	Last week, Rep. Pete Aguilar (CA-31) continued his tour of Inland Empire healthcare and assistance facilities, making visits to the Homeless Access Center in San Bernardino and to Loma Linda University Children’s Hospital. At the Homeless Access Center in San Bernardino, Rep. Aguilar accompanied city leaders, Mayor Carey Davis, Councilmember and Mayor Pro Tem Rikke Van Johnson, City Attorney Gary Saenz and Councilmember Virginia Marquez to tour the facility and discuss homelessness in the Inland Empire. Rep. Aguilar also visited Loma Linda University Children’s Hospital, where he toured the facility and met with Dr. Richard Chinnock and other medical personnel to discuss improving access to quality and affordable healthcare for San Bernardino children and families. The Precinct Reporter covered Rep. Aguilar’s visit to the Homeless Access Center in San Bernardino, which can be read here. Highland Community News followed Rep. Aguilar for his tour of Loma Linda University Children’s Hospital, and can be read here.
09.02.2015	Rep. Pete Aguilar (CA-31) released the following statement announcing his support of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) between the P5+1 and Iran: “As a member of the House Armed Services Committee, I have carefully reviewed the JCPOA, spent hours in military and intelligence briefings, met with the Israeli Prime Minister and President, sought out experts and diplomats who support and oppose this agreement, and heard from passionate San Bernardino County residents on both sides of this issue. There is no such thing as a perfectly negotiated agreement, and the JCPOA is no different. However, it is the best diplomatic solution available to the international community and I will vote to support the agreement. “The bottom line is this: Iran can never be allowed to obtain a nuclear weapon. I support the JCPOA because the national security of the United States, Israel, and the entire international community would be at risk should Iran ever obtain a nuclear weapon. The agreement verifiably prevents Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon. Eliminating the pathway for Iran to develop a nuclear weapon is the safest outcome for the world and the region, and is consistent with my own nuclear non-proliferation positions. I remain steadfastly dedicated to supporting Israel and am committed to addressing any security concerns with continued robust U.S. support. Our unwavering support of Israel—our most trusted friend and ally in the Middle East—is an important counterbalance to Iran’s ambitions in the region. “Since 2002, the United States has worked to prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon. Working with an international coalition that includes Britain, France, Germany, Russia, and China, the United States has led the way in preventing Iran from creating highly enriched uranium and weapons-grade plutonium. Iran’s pursuit of a nuclear weapon has been a destabilizing force in the region for decades. In an effort to bring Iran to the negotiating table, both President George W. Bush and President Barack Obama fought for increased international sanctions on Iran’s economy. The sanctions worked, forcing Iran to the negotiating table to find a diplomatic solution. “In exchange for sanctions relief, the JCPOA requires Iran to abstain from creating highly enriched uranium for 15 years, significantly limits the number of centrifuges they are permitted to have for 10 years, and forces a redesign and rebuild of the Arak reactor to prevent the production of weapons-grade plutonium. Iran also acknowledged the terms of the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty, of which the country is a signatory, permanently restricting the regime from acquiring a nuclear weapon. “Iran has demonstrated a pattern of broken trust, which is why the JCPOA further mandates detailed and intricate inspections that provide international inspectors access to all Iranian locations, whether they be disclosed facilities, military installations, or currently unknown sites. “We must stay vigilant for any possible violations of this agreement and keep all options on the table should diplomacy fail. The JCPOA does not remove any of our options to prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon. The President has consistently stated that the United States will take whatever means necessary to achieve that goal, including military means. All of our options remain on the table, for the life of the deal and beyond.”
09.02.2015	Earlier this year, Rep. Pete Aguilar (CA-31) sat down with Joel Waldman of Fox News to talk about his experience as a freshman member of Congress. The interview—which was released yesterday afternoon—covers Rep. Aguilar’s first few months in office where he discusses his focus on working across party lines to support middle-class families, as well as connecting residents with the federal government through assistance with Social Security, Medicare, veterans benefits, immigration, and more. “We’ve tried to work hard on constituent services, making sure that we connect the federal role to residents back in San Bernardino County has been an important part, as well as supporting legislation on a bipartisan basis and working with both sides to get things done,” said Rep. Aguilar. When asked about the journey from his humble beginnings in San Bernardino to representing his hometown in Congress, Rep. Aguilar replied, “I’m a fourth generation kid from San Bernardino County who is living this dream. It’s an amazing opportunity to be able to represent the residents of San Bernardino County…so, starting emptying ashtrays and mopping floors in the San Bernardino County courthouse and to be able to serve the region that I love and care so much about is just a very special feeling.” Rep. Aguilar represents California’s 31st Congressional District in San Bernardino County. He sits on the House Armed Services and Agriculture Committees. Before entering Congress, Rep. Aguilar served as the Mayor of Redlands, where he resides today with his wife and two children. The interview can be viewed in full here. ###
08.31.2015	Last week, Rep. Pete Aguilar (CA-31) hosted U.S. Small Business Administrator Maria Contreras-Sweet in San Bernardino at the Inland Empire Economic Partnership for a roundtable discussion to highlight opportunities for local businesses. The event was held on Monday afternoon with Inland Empire lenders and focused on how small businesses and startups can grow their workforce and increase access to credit and capital in San Bernardino County. Read about it here or in the Fontana Herald News.
08.28.2015	Yesterday, Rep. Pete Aguilar (CA-31) toured the Homeless Access Center in San Bernardino and met with city leaders to discuss homelessness in the Inland Empire. Rep. Aguilar toured the facility with Mayor Carey Davis, Council member and Mayor Pro Tem Rikke Van Johnson, City Attorney Gary Saenz, and City Council member Virginia Marquez. The tour was facilitated by the center’s Deputy Director of Housing, Brandon Mims and the CEO of Mercy House, Larry Haynes. “I’m grateful to have had the opportunity to tour the facility and meet with our city leaders to discuss homelessness in San Bernardino. This is a huge problem in our community, especially among our veteran population. I look forward to working with our community and local leaders to curb this crisis and to help San Bernardino families find safe and stable homes,” said Rep. Aguilar. Mayor Davis said, “We appreciate Congressman Aguilar taking time to visit the Access Center. This is one measure the City is taking to address a concern that impacts all communities." Council member Marquez added, “We've learned a lot more about homelessness through the Access Center and Mercy House. Providing vouchers or similar resources serves as an immediate form of assistance, but our staff focuses on permanent housing options and makes every attempt to get to the underlying issues. Only then can we connect people to the right resources that will, in the long-term, perhaps prevent homelessness altogether." The San Bernardino Access Center opened in May of this year. It is managed by Mercy House Living Center, where it currently helps between twenty-five and sixty people per day. The center provides a number of resources for members of the community who are homeless or at risk of becoming homeless, including food vouchers, bus passes, rapid re-housing, and more. If you or someone you know is homeless or at risk of becoming homeless, please call 908-888-4800 for assistance.
08.26.2015	Yesterday, Rep. Pete Aguilar (CA-31) visited Gate City Beverage Distributors in San Bernardino to continue his tour of Inland Empire businesses. Rep. Aguilar toured the facility and spoke with executives and staff members about ways to help local businesses grow. Gate City supplies beverages to over 3,800 accounts between San Bernardino and Riverside Counties, and has been in operation since 1927. “I enjoyed walking around Gate City and meeting many of their dedicated employees. This is a great example of a locally owned business that values its workers and continues to look for ways to expand. I am committed to ensuring Inland Empire businesses like Gate City have the resources they need to hire more people and grow their companies,” said Rep. Aguilar. Eddie Buenrostro, General Manager, added, “It was our pleasure to show the Congressman the history of our family owned and operated business. Gate City Beverage Distributors has been a staple of the community for 88 years and we feel it’s important for us to establish relationships with existing and new leaders of the community.” Since taking office in January, Rep. Aguilar has taken many steps to support small business owners. Since releasing his jobs plan in April of this year, Rep. Aguilar has introduced two bills aimed at empowering Inland Empire businesses to expand their workforce. The On-the-Job Training Tax Credit Act of 2015 and the Small Business Jobs Act of 2015 both provide tax credits to business owners, encouraging them to grow their workforce and increase business throughout San Bernardino County. Rep. Aguilar also co-sponsored the Small Brew Act, which reduces the federal excise tax on small brewers, leveling the playing field and increasing competition with large beer producers. Rep. Aguilar is also co-sponsoring the Craft Beverage Modernization and Tax Reform Act, which will streamline regulations and reduce taxes for brewers.
08.25.2015	Yesterday, Rep. Pete Aguilar (CA-31) hosted a roundtable discussion with U.S. Small Business Administrator Maria Contreras-Sweet and Inland Empire lending partners to highlight opportunities for local businesses and startups to grow their workforce and increase access to credit and capital in San Bernardino County. Rep. Aguilar invited the Administrator to the Inland Empire for the event, which was held at the Inland Empire Economic Partnership. “I’m glad the Administrator could join us for such an important event. I look forward to working with our local business owners and the Small Business Administration to ensure better communication between the local and national levels so Inland Empire business owners have the resources they need to expand their workforce and grow their business,” said Rep. Aguilar. “At the SBA, we are making the agency’s initials stand for smart, bold, and accessible, through programs like Startup In A Day, which challenges local cities to streamline their small business permitting process and take it online; and through (STEP) the State Trade and Export Promotion program, which helps entrepreneurs take bolder steps into international markets, we are living up to those words,” said Administrator Contreras-Sweet. “By making our services accessible to all communities and investing in our underserved small businesses, they are able to create jobs and opportunities that are lifting up the Inland Empire, all of California and our country." The Small Business Administration (SBA) empowers small businesses throughout the nation to grow and expand by helping them increase capital, facilitate contracting, and provide counseling to entrepreneurs and business owners. Last year alone, the SBA supported or assisted with more than $127 million in loans throughout California’s 31st Congressional District. Rep. Aguilar invited the SBA Administrator to the Inland Empire to highlight different opportunities for local business owners to improve access to credit and capital, and to ultimately grow their businesses. Ricardo Robles of Anita's Mexican Foods in San Bernardino also attended the event. Anita’s Mexican Foods received more than $9 million in loans facilitated by the SBA. Since taking office in January, Rep. Aguilar has taken a number of steps to support small business owners. After releasing his Jobs Plan in April of this year, Rep. Aguilar introduced two bills to empower Inland Empire businesses to expand their workforce. The On-the-Job Training Tax Credit Act of 2015 and the Small Business Jobs Act of 2015 both provide tax credits to business owners, encouraging them to grow their workforce and increase business throughout San Bernardino County.
08.21.2015	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar (CA-31) hosted his first annual Senior Fair at the Multicultural Center at Victoria Gardens in Rancho Cucamonga. Over three hundred seniors attended the event that hosted over forty vendors to assist residents with a variety of issues, including free health screenings, information on food programs, and help with Social Security, Medicare, veterans benefits, immigration, and more. Rep. Aguilar was joined by local elected officials, including Mayor Dennis Michael and Assemblymember Marc Steinorth. “This was about connecting seniors with the resources they need to live healthier and happier lives here in the Inland Empire. I’m grateful to our vendors who participated to make this possible and I look forward to hosting more events like this so our residents always have access to the programs and facilities they need,” said Rep. Aguilar. Rafael Rios, a Fontana resident, was helped by Rep. Aguilar’s office earlier this year, assisting Mr. Rios in obtaining more than $30,000 in veterans benefits he was owed. Mr. Rios attended the fair this morning to thank Rep. Aguilar and staff for their help. “It’s been an excellent experience, ever since we started. I called the Representative—Mr. Aguilar—because I had some problems with my claims with the VA, and thank God everything’s been working out okay, we’re still in the process of sorting things, but so far so good. I appreciate that.” Rep. Aguilar sat with constituents to discuss casework, which focused on Social Security, Medicare, immigration, veterans benefits, and more. He also met with vendors from different agencies, organizations and local government officials to discuss how the Inland Empire can improve resources and access to critical information for seniors. Rep. Aguilar is committed to improving and strengthening crucial programs including Social Security and Medicare so all Americans can retire with dignity. Today’s event was Rep. Aguilar’s first annual Senior Fair.
08.20.2015	Yesterday, Rep. Pete Aguilar (CA-31) held an open house in his new San Bernardino office, inviting constituents and local officials to celebrate the opening of the new location. Over 200 people attended the event. “I’m glad so many members of the community were able to join us last night for our open house. It’s important to have a central and accessible location so we can provide constituents with the resources they need, whether it’s help with veterans benefits , immigration, Social Security, or Medicare,” said Rep. Aguilar. The office opening allowed constituents to meet with Rep. Aguilar and staff members at the new location, which is open and ready to assist constituents with issues they face with veterans benefits, Medicare, Social Security, immigration and more. The office is open from 9:00AM to 6:00PM to serve residents of the 31st Congressional District. It’s located at 685 E. Carnegie Drive, Suite 100. For additional information, please contact the office at 909-890-4445 or aguilar.house.gov. Rep. Aguilar represents California’s 31st Congressional District in San Bernardino County. He sits on the House Armed Services and Agriculture Committees. Before entering Congress, Rep. Aguilar served as the Mayor of Redlands, where he resides today with his wife and two children.
08.10.2015	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar announced his support for a package of commonsense legislation to strengthen environmental protections and safeguard key health and safety provisions for communities affected by hydraulic fracturing, or fracking. The three bills—the Fracturing Responsibility and Awareness of Chemicals (FRAC) Act, the Focused Reduction of Effluence and Storm water runoff through Hydrofracking Environmental Regulation (FRESHER) Act, and the Bringing Reductions to Energy’s Airborne Toxic Health Effects (BREATHE) Act—were introduced earlier this year. “Our children should be able to breathe fresh air, drink clean water, and live in a safe and healthy environment. I’m supporting these bills because they will reduce pollution, combat the harmful effects of climate change, and hold energy companies more accountable,” said Rep. Aguilar. He added, “We have a responsibility to confront these issues today so our children don’t pay the price tomorrow.” The bills, part of the “Frack Pack,” aim to curb pollution caused by fracking. The FRAC Act would remove fracking exemptions under the Safe Water Drinking Act, and require oil companies to disclose chemicals used in fracking. The FRESHER Act would end a loophole in the Clean Water Act, and implement national standards to safeguard stream waters from chemical runoffs. The BREATHE Act would eliminate an exemption in the Clean Air Act that has allowed fracking companies to skirt toxic air pollution regulations that other industries have been required to follow for years. Rep. Aguilar is committed to supporting policies that combat climate change and improve quality of life for Inland Empire families and millions of Americans across the country.
08.05.2015	This week, Rep. Pete Aguilar authored an editorial for the San Bernardino County Sun entitled “Small businesses key to kick-starting Inland Empire economy,” where he discussed his newest bill, the Small Business Jobs Act of 2015, which will help San Bernardino County small businesses expand and addresses the regional unemployment rate. The bill encourages businesses to hire new workers by providing a tax credit to owners in counties that experienced an average annual unemployment rate of one percentage point or higher than last year’s national average. This would apply to local businesses in both San Bernardino County and Riverside County, which showed annual average unemployment rates of 8.1 and 8.2 percent, while the national unemployment rate held at 6.2 percent. This is Rep. Aguilar’s second bill to address job creation, following his On-the-Job Training Tax Credit Act of 2015, a bipartisan bill to increase workforce training and help small businesses grow, which he introduced in May. The full piece can be read in the San Bernardino County Sun or online here.
08.04.2015	Last week, Rep. Pete Aguilar (CA-31) joined fellow California member Rep. Zoe Lofgren (CA-19) and 176 members of Congress on a letter to the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), calling on it to end its Family Detention Program. The letter followed the U.S. District Court’s ruling that the DHS detention program violated the 1997 Flores Settlement, which guided protocol for unaccompanied minors caught crossing the border. It also applies to those apprehended with their parents. Judge Dolly M. Gee of Federal District Court for the Central District of California ruled on the decision late Friday, July 24th. “As our nation continues to deal with an immigration crisis, we must remember to always show care and compassion, especially for those who are most vulnerable. The women and children held in these detention centers are from nations ravaged by war, poverty, and disease—we cannot subject an already susceptible population to more hardship and strife. Judge Gee made an important ruling last month and I stand with my colleagues in Congress and urge Secretary Johnson and the Department of Homeland Security to heed this decision,” said Rep. Aguilar. Rep. Aguilar is a strong advocate of comprehensive immigration reform and a champion of the President’s program to create and expand programs for undocumented immigrants, including DACA (Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals) and DAPA (Deferred Action for Parents of Americans and Lawful Permanent Residents). He was also a leader in the successful efforts to fund the Department of Homeland Security without attaching anti-immigration provisions to the funding bill in February of this year. The letter to Secretary Johnson can be read in full here.
07.30.2015	Yesterday afternoon, Rep. Pete Aguilar (CA-31) joined Rep. Rosa DeLauro (CT-03) in introducing H.R. 3337, the National Infrastructure Development Bank Act as a cosponsor. Rep. Aguilar listed a National Infrastructure Bank as a top priority in his Jobs Plan that was released earlier this year. The bank will facilitate funding for a number of critical transportation projects throughout California and the country—improving the roads, bridges and rails that millions of Americans rely on every day. “I’ve heard it from constituents at ‘Coffee with your Congressman,’ telephone town halls, and even in the super market: our roads and bridges are crumbling beneath us. We cannot wait any longer, we need to act. Improving our transportation network and infrastructure will both put people back to work and provide us with reliable infrastructure to attract new businesses to the Inland Empire. That is precisely why I prioritized establishing a National Infrastructure Bank in my Jobs Plan, and it is why I cosponsored this legislation. We’ve kicked the can down the road long enough on federal funding for transportation—it’s time to take proactive steps to invest in our nation’s roads, bridges and rails,” said Rep. Aguilar. The National Infrastructure Development Bank, created by the bill, would use federal funding investments to leverage private dollars to invest in public transportation and infrastructure projects. The Bank would finance up to half the cost of a project, and prioritizes those with a regional or national significance, that create jobs, and that grow the economy. Projects could include transportation projects like bridges, rail, airports and roads; environmental projects like water systems and industrial site cleanup; energy projects like efficiency improvements for public housing and energy storage; and telecommunications projects like expanding broadband. Investing in transportation systems and infrastructure is one of Rep. Aguilar’s top priorities in Congress and a major component to getting the Inland Empire economy back on track. He included this in his Jobs Plan, which was released in April and can be read here. Earlier this month, he cosponsored the GROW AMERICA Act—a long-term funding bill that would extend authorization of the Highway Trust Fund for six years, allowing San Bernardino County to plan and execute crucial transportation and infrastructure projects.
07.23.2015	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar (CA-31) introduced his latest bill, the Small Business Jobs Act of 2015, which gives small businesses looking to expand their workforce a tax credit equal to what they pay in payroll taxes for the first five new job openings their business generates. This tax credit is targeted to small businesses expanding in areas with consistently high unemployment rates. “Since taking office, my priority has been to create and support policies that improve our economy and strengthen San Bernardino’s middle class. A few weeks ago I introduced a workforce training bill—which has received bipartisan support—and today I’m proud to introduce my newest piece of legislation that will empower small businesses to expand and will help lower our unemployment rate,” said Rep. Aguilar. He added, “It’s time to get the Inland Empire economy back on the road to recovery and put our residents back to work—this bill will help us do just that.” Rep. Aguilar’s bill specifically targets businesses in areas with an average annual unemployment rate of at least one percentage point above the national average for the previous calendar year. This includes San Bernardino County, which had an average annual unemployment rate of 8.1 percent in 2014 compared to the national average of 6.2 percent. Empowering small businesses to expand their workforce and curbing the unemployment rate were priorities included in Rep. Aguilar’s Jobs Plan, which can be read here. This is Rep. Aguilar’s second job creation bill in two months. In May he introduced the On-the-Job Training Tax Credit Act of 2015, which has since received bipartisan support. The text of the Small Business Jobs Act of 2015 can be read here.
07.20.2015	Last weekend, Rep. Pete Aguilar (CA-31) hosted a student loan transfer information session and workshop for students who were affected by the Everest College closure. Rep. Aguilar’s office coordinated the workshop to help connect students with resources and information about dealing with their student loans and finishing their education after Everest College suddenly shut down. Charles Roberts of Highland Community News covered the event and highlighted the story of Francine Prieto Estrada, who was affected by the closure and benefited from the workshop last Saturday. “Aguilar to the Rescue for Victims of For-Profit Schools” can be read in full here.
07.20.2015	On Friday, Rep. Pete Aguilar (CA-31) toured the Inland Empire Jobs Corps in San Bernardino, meeting with instructors and trainees of programs offered by the organization. This is his latest visit to a job training facility since he introduced his bipartisan bill, the On-the-Job Training Tax Credit Act of 2015, which will help close the skills gap and incentivize local businesses to increase hiring. “I was glad to have the opportunity to tour the Inland Empire Jobs Corps and to meet with the instructors and students. This is precisely what our community needs—training programs and educational resources to equip our residents with the skills they need to thrive in the 21st century,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “Their work inspired my first bill to help get our economy moving again. I look forward to continuing to work with our local organizations and my colleagues in Congress to strengthen workforce training opportunities and to put people back to work.” “Our staff and students have worked hard and continue to work hard to achieve the goals that will lead to a better future. I was very glad the Congressman was able to see and experience first-hand our students’ commitment to change their lives,” said Claudia Lopez, Business and Community Liaison. Electrical trainee Diana O’Neill said, “We felt that it was pretty cool he took time out of his busy schedule to come see what we’re doing, to actually want to meet us individually and ask our names.” “Personally, having the Congressman come visit our tile setting shop, in San Bernardino, was an honor. Much pride was felt when shaking his hand,” added Marianna Garza, tile trainee. Since taking office in January, Rep. Aguilar has worked with his colleagues on both sides of the aisle to put Inland Empire residents back to work. Following his Jobs Tour across San Bernardino County, Rep. Aguilar released a Jobs Plan—his plan to kick-start the local economy. It can be read here. In May he introduced his first bill, the On-the-Job Training Tax Credit Act of 2015, which creates a temporary tax credit to help small businesses pay for the cost of training new hires. He was inspired to write this bill after seeing the success of the Inland Empire Jobs Corps and their dedication to equip locals with the proper skills and tools to find work and thrive in the San Bernardino County economy.
07.15.2015	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar urged his colleagues to pass a long-term surface transportation bill in light of the impending expiration of the Highway and Transportation Funding Act of 2015, and voted against Republican Leadership’s short-term fix to extend authorization for only five months. Rep. Aguilar spoke on the House floor this afternoon to advocate for a long-term transportation bill to fund the improvement of streets, highways and bridges in the Inland Empire and across the country. “Enough is enough. We need a comprehensive and long-term surface transportation plan—not a short-term fix. The Highway Trust Fund supports critical projects, which include improving the I-10 freeway in the Inland Empire, as well as countless other projects across the country. It’s time for Republican Leadership to start governing and bring us a long-term extension that is measured in years, not months. We don’t need another short-term patch. It’s time for real solutions,” said Rep. Aguilar. The Inland Empire has a number of projects currently supported by the Highway Trust Fund, including improvements to the I-10 and US-395. Future projects, such as the Pepper Avenue Interchange in Rialto—which would create a new freeway access point with a full-service interchange—depend on reliable funding and proper planning. To support these and other local transportation projects, Rep. Aguilar cosponsored H.R. 2410, the GROW AMERICA Act—a long-term funding bill that would extend the authorization for six years. This bill would provide long-term stability and enable San Bernardino County and cities in the Inland Empire to plan and execute critical transportation and infrastructure projects. Republican Leadership chose to introduce another band-aid bill this afternoon which extends the authorization for five months. Rep. Aguilar voted against the short-term fix, which only extends highway projects through December 18th. It passed the House 312 to 119.
07.14.2015	On Saturday, Rep. Pete Aguilar will hold his next “Coffee with your Congressman” event in Grand Terrace. This is the latest meeting in an ongoing series of intimate and informal sessions with constituents to discuss important issues facing Inland Empire families. Rep. Pete Aguilar Continues “Coffee with your Congressman” Series in Grand Terrace WHEN: Saturday, July 18th from 9:00AM to 10:00AM WHERE: Food Connection, 22400 Barton Road, Suite 1, Grand Terrace, CA 92313 WHO: Inland Empire residents WHY: Rep. Aguilar is committed to supporting policies that strengthen San Bernardino County’s middle class and grow the economy. He holds constituent events regularly, where he meets with residents to discuss critical issues facing Inland Empire families. Rep. Aguilar originally started “Coffee with your Congressman” when he served on the Redlands City Council, where it was then known as “Coffee with the Council.”
07.13.2015	On Saturday, Rep. Pete Aguilar (CA-31) hosted a student loan transfer information session and workshop for students who were affected by the recent closing of Everest College. Rep. Aguilar, staff members from his office, and officials from San Bernardino Valley College and the California Bureau for Private Postsecondary Education met with students and parents. Rep. Aguilar’s office coordinated the workshop to help connect students with resources and information about dealing with their student loans and finishing their education after Everest College suddenly shut down. One of Rep. Aguilar’s top priorities in Congress is college affordability. He recently cosponsored two important bills to address this crisis. The first is the PRO Students Act (Protections and Regulations for Our Students), which was introduced by Rep. Takano (CA-41) and will set up accountability measures for for-profit colleges like Everest and strengthen whistleblower protections for students and faculty. The other bill is the America’s College Promise Act, which would make two years of community college free and put low-income students on the road to achieving a four-year college degree. Only weeks after taking office in January, Rep. Aguilar cosponsored the All-Year ACCESS Act, which restores full-year Pell Grants for full-time and part-time students to cover the costs of summer and winter break classes. Doug Saunders from the San Bernardino County Sun covered Saturday’s event—it can be read in full here.
07.10.2015	Yesterday, Rep. Pete Aguilar (CA-31) stood up for women’s reproductive rights, first when he spoke on the House Floor against dangerous anti-choice language that was slipped into the 21st Century Cures Act, a bill intended to advance medical research. He also cosponsored legislation that protects women’s health. “Tomorrow, The House will vote on the 21st Century Cures Act, legislation that will advance medical research at the FDA and the NIH to lead to new treatment and cures for countless people. This is necessary. However, what is not necessary is the dangerous language that Republican leadership quietly tucked in the bill that blocks access to reproductive care. This is unacceptable. As a Member of the Pro-Choice Caucus, I oppose this and other attempts to expand restrictions on reproductive care. We can’t allow this type of anti-choice language to keep appearing in what is otherwise important legislation. Today it’s in legislation to further medical research, before it was in legislation to fund Community Health Centers and to protect victims of trafficking,” said Rep. Aguilar He continued, “Allowing this policy to move forward will move women’s healthcare backward – we cannot allow these attacks to continue. Reps. Lee, Clarke and Schakowsky have offered an amendment to strike this destructive anti-choice language, and today I offer them my strong support. I urge my colleagues to vote in favor of their amendment and to also insist that we need to stop injecting the Hyde language into parts of law it doesn’t belong.” Rep. Aguilar also announced that he cosponsored H.R. 2972, the EACH Woman Act, which will ensure that low-income, military, and other women in federal health programs have equal access to abortion coverage. He also cosponsored H.R. 448, the Women’s Health Protection Act, which bans any state or local government from restricting access to abortion services. Rep. Aguilar is a member of the Pro-Choice Caucus and is committed to fighting for policies that support women’s access to reproductive healthcare. Rep. Aguilar’s floor remarks can be viewed in full here.
07.08.2015	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar (CA-31) announced his co-sponsorship of several campaign finance reform bills. These include H.R. 20, the Government By the People Act; H.R. 430, the DISCLOSE Act; H.R. 2125, the Keeping our Campaigns Honest Act; and H.J. Res 22, the Democracy for All Amendment. Rep. Aguilar believes reform is necessary to get dark money out of campaigns and ensure that every day Americans have the biggest voice in elections, not special interests. “This is critical legislation to fix our electoral system and level the playing field. We need more transparency and accountability in politics and these measures will put us on track to do just that,” said Rep. Aguilar. He added, “I look forward to working to enact campaign finance reform to get dark money out of elections and ensure that the voice of the people is the loudest.” The Government By the People Act, which was introduced by Rep. Sarbanes (MD-03), would create a public financing framework to level the playing field for all candidates and reduce special interests’ influence. The DISCLOSE Act, which was introduced by Rep. Van Hollen (MD-08), focuses on transparency and shedding light on dark money in politics by increasing disclosure requirements. The Keeping our Campaigns Honest Act, which was introduced by Rep. John Yarmuth (KY-03), requires Super PACs and outside groups airing political advertisements to disclose their major donors in their ads. The Democracy for All Amendment, which was introduced by Rep. Deutch (FL-21), is a Constitutional amendment to overturn Citizens United.
07.07.2015	This month marks Rep. Aguilar’s first six months in office. Since his swearing-in this past January, Rep. Aguilar has focused on creating and supporting legislation that will grow the Inland Empire economy and help strengthen the middle class. From releasing his Jobs Plan, to introducing bipartisan legislation to provide tax relief to local businesses, to co-sponsoring a bipartisan measure with fellow Inland Empire Representative Colonel Paul Cook to put veterans back to work— Rep. Aguilar has fought tirelessly for families throughout San Bernardino County. January 2015: Rep. Aguilar co-sponsored the Protect Medical Innovation Act, which repeals the medical device tax that was implemented as part of the Affordable Care Act. It will help Inland Empire medical device manufacturers by providing relief from a burdensome tax, which has forced business owners to slow investments in research and development and cut jobs. Rep. Aguilar co-sponsored the Small BREW Act, which helps the Inland Empire’s local brewers by lowering the federal excise tax on small brewers, leveling the playing field with large distributors. Rep. Aguilar co-sponsored the All-Year ACCESS Act, which restores access to full-year Pell Grants, and would help non-traditional and part time students take summer and winter break classes. Rep. Aguilar co-sponsored the Manufacturing Jobs for Veterans Act, which establishes a pilot State Manufacturing Employment Program to support training, apprenticeships, and certification classes for veterans. February and March 2015: Rep. Aguilar fought to prevent the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) from shutting down. He spoke on the House Floor multiple times, urging Speaker Boehner to bring a clean bill to a vote to ensure that DHS was fully funded through the end of the fiscal year. He co-authored a letter to the Speaker with Rep. Ruben Gallego (AZ-07) demanding a vote on DHS funding, and gained the support of 122 of his colleagues. After weeks of advocating, Speaker Boehner finally agreed and brought a clean bill up for a vote. It passed 257-167 and was signed into law by the President. During the month of February, Rep. Aguilar held Jobs Roundtable Discussions across San Bernardino County with local business owners, community leaders, labor representatives, and veterans to talk about job creation and economic growth in the district. The forums were held in San Bernardino, Rancho Cucamonga, and Redlands. Rep. Aguilar co-sponsored and voted for legislation to cut taxes and help small businesses. He voted for the Small Business Regulatory Flexibility Improvements Act, which requires federal agencies to take into account the costs that small businesses may incur from new regulations. Rep. Aguilar also voted for America’s Small Business Tax Relief Act, which permanently extends three different tax provisions commonly used by many small businesses. Rep. Aguilar co-sponsored the Paycheck Fairness Act. This will help end wage discrimination against women, who on average earn 78 cents to the dollar men make. April 2015: Rep. Aguilar released his Jobs Plan, his strategy for kick-starting the Inland Empire’s regional economy and putting residents back to work. Read it here. Rep. Aguilar held a Veterans Roundtable with local veterans to discuss critical issues they face today, including health care, the VA backlog, housing, and unemployment. Rep. Aguilar met with Ernesto and Dina Gudiño of Redlands and their family to discuss immigration reform. The Gudiños would be eligible for Deferred Action for Parents of Americans and Lawful Permanent Residents (DAPA) under the President’s executive orders issued last November. They have three American-born children and have lived in the United States for eighteen years, but due to their undocumented status, they are at risk of being deported and torn away from their children. Rep. Aguilar worked with fellow Inland Empire Representative Colonel Paul Cook (CA-08) to pass an amendment in the Armed Services Committee to help states create pilot programs to put veterans back to work. May 2015: Rep. Aguilar fought to raise wages for Inland Empire residents by co-sponsoring a bill to raise the federal minimum wage from $7.25 to $12.00 an hour by 2020. Rep. Aguilar met with students at the San Bernardino Valley College Dreamers Resource Center workshop to discuss the immigration crisis and the plight of Dreamers. Rep. Aguilar took the SNAP challenge with his wife Alisha, where each lived on $4.73 a day for one week to raise awareness for hunger and food insecurity in the Inland Empire. The Redlands Daily Facts documented his experience. Read it here. Rep. Aguilar passed four amendments through the House of Representatives that were included in the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016, which sets the nation’s defense priorities. The amendments will help put veterans back to work, create a review process to encourage more minority students to pursue STEM careers, improve accessibility of Department of Defense (DOD) contracting opportunities for small businesses, and support the San Bernardino County International Airport. Rep. Aguilar fought to protect California transportation and infrastructure by supporting the Highway and Transportation Funding Act of 2015, which will allow authorized federal funding for transportation and infrastructure projects in California and throughout the nation to continue through the deadline of July 31st. Rep. Aguilar introduced his first bill, H.R. 2431, the On-the-Job Training Tax Credit Act of 2015, which will create a temporary tax credit to help small businesses pay for the cost of training new hires. This was a key initiative in his Jobs Plan that he released in April. Rep. Aguilar spearheaded the effort for Congressional support for a $5 million grant to help fund the Inland Empire Utilities Agency’s application to help support its sustainable water initiative. June 2015 Rep. Aguilar’s amendment to curb the increasing suicide rate among female veterans passed the House of Representatives. The amendment was added to H.R. 2685, the Department of Defense Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2016, and requires the Department of Defense to study the causes and ways to address the higher rate of suicide in women veterans. Rep. Aguilar’s co-sponsored bill to repeal the medical device tax passed the House of Representatives. “I’m proud of our work so far to support our veterans, lower the tax burden for small businesses, raise the minimum wage, and expand employment opportunities in San Bernardino County. We’re just getting started and I will continue working with my Democratic and Republican colleagues on behalf of Inland Empire residents,” said Rep. Pete Aguilar. Rep. Aguilar has held over 130 constituent meetings. These include his reoccurring Coffee with Your Congressman get-togethers, local business site visits, roundtable events, tours of local industries and school programs, and more.
07.06.2015	Last week, Rep. Pete Aguilar (CA-31) authored an editorial for the San Bernardino County Sun entitled “San Bernardino’s resiliency, heart shouldn’t be over looked,” where he reflected on the recent LA Times profile of his hometown. Rep. Aguilar argued that the story of San Bernardino is found in its tale of survival and the community’s dedication to rebuild a city fit for the 21st century, with investments in education, workforce development, and transportation and infrastructure. The full piece can be read in the San Bernardino County Sun or online here.
07.02.2015	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar (CA-31) released a statement in honor of the 51st anniversary of the Civil Rights Act, which was signed by President Lyndon B. Johnson on July 2, 1964. “On this day, we remember and honor the heroic men and women who fought and died to make our nation more free. From Rosa Parks refusing to give up her seat on a Montgomery bus, to sit-ins across the south, to the march from Selma to Montgomery – today we reflect and honor those who risked and gave their lives in the name of equality,” said Rep. Aguilar. He added, “We are forever indebted to those brave souls for their courage and relentless pursuit of liberty and freedom, which ultimately pushed our nation forward. May we remember their stories and sacrifices, and recommit ourselves to continuing the fight for full equality for all Americans under the law.” The Civil Rights Act of 1964 was a defining moment and groundbreaking legislation during the Civil Rights Movement. It outlawed segregation in the public sphere and barred discrimination against prospective employees or those seeking government services based on race, color, religion, sex, or national origin. It was originally offered by President John F. Kennedy, who did not live to see it come to fruition. The Civil Rights Act of 1964 was signed into law by President Johnson.
06.30.2015	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar (CA-31) issued the following statement in light of the looming expiration of the Export-Import Bank, which ends at midnight tonight: “Allowing the Export-Import Bank to expire is partisan politics at its worst. There are Inland Empire businesses that rely on the bank to level the playing field in a global economy. Despite bipartisan support for the bank, Republican leadership chose politics over policies that create jobs and grow the economy,” said Rep. Aguilar. The Export-Import Bank’s charter expires tonight at midnight because Congress did not act. Republican leadership’s refusal to reauthorize the charter jeopardizes American businesses that rely on the bank to level the playing field so they can compete fairly when conducting business overseas. Last week, Rep. Aguilar spoke on the House floor, urging Republican leadership to bring the Export-Import Bank reauthorization to a vote. His remarks can be viewed here.
06.25.2015	Today, Rep. Aguilar sent a video message to congratulate the Girl Scouts partaking in the Cyber Security Camp entitled, “GenCyber.” The program is sponsored by the National Science Foundation and the National Security Agency, and supported by camp administrators from California State University, San Bernardino (CSUSB) Cyber Security Center and the Girl Scouts of San Gorgonio Council. The camp is hosting 250 middle school Girl Scouts from San Bernardino and Riverside counties to explore the world of Cyber Security. Rep. Aguilar congratulated the students on their hard work and encouraged them to push forward in the world of Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM). “Exploring the world of cyber security is an incredible opportunity, which I’m sure has given you the chance to create and maneuver new and innovative technological tools. From building a microcomputer to learning team-building skills in group activities, this week you have taken the time to find and develop skills and talents that will stay with you for the rest of your lives,” said Rep. Aguilar in the recorded message. He continued, “It’s so important that young women have access to advanced and changing technology – we need more young women like you taking the reins to steer our world into the future. We need you to help us build a bigger and better world for the generations to come.” STEM Manager for the Girl Scouts Carrie Raleigh said, “The GenCyber Day camp has provided the Girl Scouts of San Gorgonio Council the opportunity to introduce girls to new experiences like flying drones, coding, online security and team building on a high ropes course. The girls are connecting with professionals in potential career fields and learning how they could also pursue these fields. The experience has been empowering for all of the girls as they have continually exceeded expectations and conquered challenges throughout the week.” Prof. Tony Coulson, director of the Cyber Security Center at Cal State University San Bernardino added, “With 70 percent of women in college not in technology, this camp is very important to help secure our nation and economy.” Throughout the program, which spans from June 22nd through June 26th, campers participate in a number of challenges in the STEM fields, including internet safety, cyber security principles, and cryptography. Rep. Aguilar is committed to investing in biotechnology and other high-tech manufacturing fields to build a 21st century economy. He is a dedicated supporter of research and investments in the STEM sectors. The video will be shown to the campers during their patch ceremony on the final night of the program. It can be watched in full here.
06.24.2015	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar (CA-31) announced a federal grant awarded to the San Bernardino County Preschool Services Department. The United States Department of Health and Human Services awarded the county department over $42 million for the Head Start and Early Head Start programs over the course of five years, spanning from 2015 through 2020. “I’m happy to announce this significant grant for Head Start programs throughout San Bernardino County. We’ve seen the differences that Head Start has made in the lives of children across the Inland Empire and our nation, so it’s crucial that we continue to invest in our students’ future and improve education at every level, from pre-k through college.” said Rep. Aguilar. San Bernardino County Director of Preschool Services Diana Alexander said, “We are beyond excited to have been awarded this grant because it enables us to provide comprehensive services to the most vulnerable children and families in our county, and allows us to positively influence a change in the trajectory of their lives for the present and in the years to come.” Rep. Aguilar visited a Head Start program in San Bernardino last month, sitting down with teachers, administrators, and students at the Baker Family Learning Center. He also worked as a teacher’s aide in a Head Start program when he was a student at the University of Redlands, where he earned the nickname “Mr. Pete” from his students. In his Jobs Plan released in April, Rep. Aguilar highlighted investing in early childhood education and making college more affordable as two of his priorities in Congress, and to get the Inland Empire economy back on track. The Jobs Plan can be read in full here.
06.19.2015	On Thursday, Rep. Pete Aguilar took to the House floor to stand up for Inland Empire business owners. With only four legislative days left until the Export-Import Bank expires, Rep. Aguilar urged House leadership to take action to reauthorize the charter for the bank, which is set to end on June 30th. The Export-Import Bank levels the playing field for American businesses of all sizes that sell their products overseas and participate in the global economy. “As of now, we have only 4 legislative days until the Export-Import Bank expires. This Bank helps American businesses of all sizes and markets around the world,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “China’s businesses have the support of their country’s Export-Import Bank and we need to give our businesses the same certainty. For years, the Ex-Im Bank has helped level the playing field for businesses in my district and across this nation, empowering and supporting them to grow and conduct business overseas. I’ve had the opportunity to work with colleagues on both sides of the aisle to support businesses and create jobs in my home district in San Bernardino County. There is no reason we can’t continue working together to reauthorize the Ex-Im Bank so American workers and businesses have the opportunity to play a role in the global economy.” The Export-Import Bank’s charter will expire on June 30th if Congress does not act, which will leave businesses across the nation vulnerable. The Export-Import Bank doesn’t cost taxpayers a dollar, and levels the playing field so businesses of all sizes can fairly sell their products overseas. Since 2007, the Export-Import Bank has created or maintained 1.5 million private sector jobs. Rep. Aguilar’s remarks can be viewed in full here.
06.18.2015	Today, the Rep. Aguilar co-sponsored bill to repeal the medical device tax passed in the House of Representatives. The bill repeals the Affordable Care Act’s medical device tax, and was among the first bills co-sponsored by Rep. Aguilar. “Repealing the medical device tax is about supporting our manufacturers to create jobs and grow the Inland Empire economy. This burdensome tax hurts American innovation, has slowed research and development in an important industry, and has cost American jobs. I’m proud to have been a part of the bi-partisan effort to see this succeed in the House.” Last month, Rep. Aguilar joined 17 members of Congress in sending a letter to Speaker Boehner, asking him to expedite the bill and to bring it to a vote. The letter can be read here. The bill, H.R. 160, the Protect Medical Innovation Act, was introduced by Rep. Erik Paulsen (R-MN). It passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 280 to 140.
06.17.2015	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar (CA-31) announced a federal grant awarded to Upland Library. The National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH) awarded Upland Library with a $3,000 federal grant as a part of the Latino Americans: 500 Years of History program. “I’m happy to announce this grant for Upland Library and to share in the excitement with them as we highlight this news for our community. Cultural programs like this are crucial for the Inland Empire as we both honor and celebrate the diversity of our region and take the time to learn more about the experiences our friends and neighbors have had that brought them here. This will be a great project for Upland Library, and I commend both their staff as well as the Ontario City Library staff for making this happen,” said Rep. Aguilar. Blanca Garcia-Barron, a library assistant and grant writer at Upland Library said, "The impact that we hope this grant will have on our communities is to broaden the awareness of the contributions of Latino Americans in Upland, Ontario and the Inland Empire at large. We hope to foster new relationships within our communities, and continue to expand our bi-lingual and cultural programming.” The Upland Library and Ontario City Library worked together to help secure the grant. The grant was made possible through a partnership with the NEH and the American Library Association (ALA) which has awarded more than 200 grants to local sites to tell the stories of Latino American experiences in the United States.
06.16.2015	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar (CA-31) released the following statement in recognition of Men’s Health Week: “It’s important that we remind men throughout our community and across the country to prioritize their health and get critical preventative screenings. This is about family health, ensuring that our fathers, brothers, and sons in every neighborhood have access to proper healthcare and are taking care of themselves. I’m pleased to stand with Mayor Carey Davis on this issue. We need to have these important conversations with our families, so I’m happy to take the time to highlight this during Men’s Health Week,” said Rep. Aguilar. Mayor Carey Davis said, "As we celebrate Father’s Day this weekend, it’s important to remember that Men’s Health Week is the perfect time to highlight the importance of awareness for preventable health issues and to encourage healthier lifestyle choices for males of all ages." Rep. Aguilar met with representatives from Men’s Health Network and offered his support for San Bernardino Mayor Carey Davis’ official proclamation in recognition of National Men’s Health Week, which runs from June 15th-June 21st. Men’s Health Month is celebrated every year during the month of June. Rep. Aguilar is committed to working with his colleagues on both sides of the aisle, as well as officials and representatives at every level of government, to raise awareness for crucial preventative screenings for men and to promote general health awareness.
06.11.2015	Last night, Rep. Pete Aguilar’s (CA-31) amendment requiring the Department of Defense (DOD) to address the rising rate of suicide in female veterans passed the House unanimously. The amendment was added to H.R. 2685, the Department of Defense Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2016, which funds the DOD. The amendment funds a study of the causes and ways to address the higher rate of suicide in female veterans, which was reported earlier this month in a new study in the journal Psychiatric Services in Advance. “Our brave men and women in uniform risk their lives every day to keep us safe and free, yet they often don’t get the care they deserve and need when they return home. While attention has been given to the subject in the past, we have recently seen a conspicuous need for research that deals with the high suicide rates among our female service members and veterans. This week the LA Times reported on a recently released study which found that female military veterans commit suicide at nearly six times the rate of other women,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “We need to do better by the women who risk their lives to protect our nation– we cannot sit idly by while our female service members and veterans suffer in silence. My amendment would set aside $1 million to study the possible causes for this level of suicides among our women in uniform. Service-related causes like traumatic brain injuries and PTSD, in addition to non-service related factors such as adverse childhood experiences, financial troubles, and other external stressors, must be investigated if we hope to seriously confront this travesty head on.” Rep. Aguilar’s amendment was adopted by voice vote and added to the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, which passed the House. Rep. Aguilar sits on the House Armed Services Committee and is a member of the Work for Warriors Caucus.
06.09.2015	On Saturday morning, Rep. Pete Aguilar (CA-31) delivered the keynote address at Cal State San Bernardino’s Latino graduate recognition ceremony, held by the Association of Latino Faculty, Staff and Students. Rep. Aguilar joined over 200 graduates, their families, and CSUSB President Tomás D. Morales for the event. In his address entitled “Strength and Significance in Community,” Rep. Aguilar advised graduates to dispel naysayers who only see how people are divided today, and to instead focus on the importance of finding an essential role in the community that allows them to work with their peers on critical issues facing our world. “Education drove me to be involved in my community and I hope it’s something that you will find too … that ultimately, our devotion to community is stronger than the politics that at times try to divide us. It’s difficult. And in today’s world, it’s even more challenging than in years past. We live in a world full of cynics that’s forced us to doubt our personal abilities as well as our shared responsibilities. We see it in the news, we read it in the papers, we experience sometimes at awkward family dinners—we are so caught up by what can divide us that we ignore the values that unite us,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “As you sit in your seats today waiting for the moment when you move your tassel, I’d like you to think about just one thing—What kind of role do you want to play in your community? Our nation, and the Inland Empire for that matter, has produced some of the greatest minds and talents of our generation. Teachers, doctors, educators, nurses, pilots, police officers, firefighters, soldiers, artists, conductors, small business owners, mothers, and fathers—we all play roles that are inherently tied to our community.” Rep. Aguilar’s remarks can be viewed in full here.
06.08.2015	Last month, Rep. Pete Aguilar (CA-31) and his wife Alisha completed a week-long SNAP challenge, where they lived on no more than $4.73 per person, per day on food – the average benefit for California’s Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) recipients. The Redlands Daily Facts covered the challenge, and this weekend followed up with Rep. Aguilar as he confronted the myths and challenges associated with SNAP and what he learned from the experience. The full piece, “Pete Aguilar reflects on SNAP challenge, lists facts and myths” can be read in the Redlands Daily Facts or online here.
06.04.2015	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar (CA-31) released the following statement in recognition of LGBT Pride Month, which is celebrated during the month of June. “During LGBT Pride month, we celebrate the heroic men and women who have tirelessly fought for equality and human rights across our nation and world. Too many of our friends, neighbors, sons, and daughters have been victims of grave injustices simply because of who they love—this needs to stop. No one should ever be denied the right to marry who he or she loves. No one should ever be fired because of who he or she loves—No one should ever be treated any differently under the law because of who they are,” said Rep. Aguilar He continued, “I’m proud to stand with the LGBT community to honor our heroes and leaders who have pushed this movement forward, and today I recommit myself to confronting and wiping out hate and prejudice in California and throughout our nation. Our country has come a long way, but we have much further to go. I look forward to working with the Inland Empire community, the state of California, and my colleagues in Congress so every man and woman can enjoy full equality under the law.” Rep. Aguilar has been a staunch supporter of the LGBT community. Only weeks after taking office in January he co-sponsored H.R. 197, the Respect for Marriage Act, which officially repeals the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA) to ensure that LGBT couples are treated equally under federal law. In March, Rep. Aguilar, along with 210 other Members of the House and Senate, filed an amicus brief at the Supreme Court supporting marriage equality in the cases to be decided later this month. Also in March, Rep. Aguilar called on the California State Bar to conduct an inquiry into the homophobic ballot proposal submitted by a California lawyer, which would allow the murder of gays and lesbians in California. The brief can be read here and the letter can be found here. LGBT Pride Month is celebrated throughout the month of June, honoring those who have fought for human rights and worked to advance the gay rights movement so all men and women can enjoy full equality under the law.
05.29.2015	Yesterday, Rep. Pete Aguilar (CA-31) honored veterans and local business owners who are making strides to employ veterans throughout San Bernardino County. Rep. Aguilar recognized business owners from Lowes (Redlands), Home Depot Distribution Centers and Retail Stores (Redlands), BNSF Railway, and Securitas. Last month, Rep. Aguilar worked with fellow Inland Empire Representative Colonel Paul Cook (R, CA-08) on legislation that will expand California’s “Work for Warriors” program and help put veterans back to work across the country. “Especially on the heels of Memorial Day, it’s crucial that we support and advocate for the brave men and women who risk their lives every day to keep our nation safe and free. For their valor, we owe them the very best when they return home—and that begins in the workplace and in the home,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “Yesterday I was joined by a number of businesses who have prioritized hiring veterans throughout our community, and I was proud to stand beside them and recognize their commitment to honoring and hiring our hometown heroes.” Rep. Aguilar sits on the House Armed Services Committee and is a member of the Work For Warriors Caucus. Putting veterans back to work and increasing workforce training were a few of Rep. Aguilar’s priorities in his Jobs Plan that he released last month. It can be read in full here.
05.28.2015	Yesterday afternoon, Rep. Pete Aguilar (CA-31) visited a Head Start program at the Baker Family Learning Center in San Bernardino, where he met with teachers and students to discuss improving access to early childhood education and the importance of investing in education from pre-kindergarten through college. “Head Start empowers children across the nation to succeed and thrive. Over the years, we have seen the difference Head Start makes in children’s lives and it’s clear that we need to continue investing in education from pre-k through college,” said Rep. Aguilar. He added, “To remain a global competitor in education, especially in the fields of math and science, we must continue to support and improve projects that foster learning and create safe environments for students in all communities across the nation.” The Head Start program celebrated its 50th anniversary last week. As a student at the University of Redlands, Rep. Aguilar worked as a teacher’s aide for one year, three days a week, where he earned the nickname “Mr. Pete” from his students. Investing in early childhood education and making college more affordable are a few of Rep. Aguilar’s top priorities, which he included in his Jobs Plan that was released last month. It can be read in full here.
05.27.2015	Last week, Rep. Pete Aguilar (CA-31) led the Inland Empire’s congressional delegation to support the Inland Empire Utilities Agency’s application for a $5 million grant to help fund its sustainable water initiative. “As California faces increasing challenges from this historic drought, we need to be more thoughtful about how we use and conserve our water,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “This project will help protect our region’s groundwater supply and will reduce our reliance on imported water. I’m pleased to have worked to help make this important project successful.” The grant, awarded by the Bureau of Reclamation’s WaterSMART Title XVI Water Reclamation and Reuse program (the U.S. Department of Interior’s sustainable water initiative), will help the Inland Empire Utilities Agency to create an additional 10,600 acre-feet per year of treated drinkable water and improve the quality of ground and surface water in the region. It will provide additional funds for the Chino Desalter Phase 3 Expansion of the Lower Chino Dairy Area Desalination and Reclamation Project. Rep. Aguilar led the Inland Empire congressional delegation with support from Reps. Paul Cook, Norma Torres, Judy Chu, and Ed Royce. Their letter of support can be read here. Additional information surrounding the grant and the Inland Empire Utilities Agency’s projects can found here.
05.26.2015	Last week, Rep. Pete Aguilar (CA-31) introduced his first bill, which would help small businesses and increase hiring throughout the Inland Empire. The On-the-Job Training Tax Credit of 2015 establishes a temporary tax credit for small businesses to use to help pay for training for new employees. The bill addresses the skills gap— the disconnect between prospective employees and vacant jobs that demand workers with specific skills—by creating a new tax credit for employers with five hundred or fewer employees to pay for half of the cost for training new hires. It would run from 2015 through 2017, and would cover apprenticeship programs, trainings offered by vocational or technical schools and community colleges, trainings offered by industrial or trade training organizations and labor unions, or industry-sponsored training programs. Last month, Rep. Aguilar unveiled his Jobs Plan to put Inland Empire residents back to work, which included specific tactics to close the skills gap and increase job training opportunities across San Bernardino County. Beau Yarbrough covered the story, which can be read here or at the Redlands Daily Facts, San Bernardino County Sun, and Inland Valley Daily Bulletin.
05.21.2015	This afternoon, Rep. Pete Aguilar (CA-31) took to the House floor to discuss his plans to support Inland Empire small businesses and increase hiring throughout San Bernardino County. Rep. Aguilar introduced his first piece of legislation yesterday, the On-the-Job Training Tax Credit of 2015, which creates a temporary tax credit for employers to use to help pay for training for new hires. “Since taking office, my top priority has been to support policies that improve our economy and strengthen the Inland Empire’s middle class. Last month I released my Jobs Plan summarizing what I’ve heard from small business owners, job-seekers, and community leaders throughout San Bernardino County. One theme that came up in my discussions with employers was the need for more workforce training assistance – something this bill addresses,” said Rep. Aguilar. He added, “The On-the-Job Training Tax Credit creates a temporary tax credit for employers to use to help pay for the cost of training new hires. This will help local owners expand their businesses and empower employees training through apprenticeship programs, vocational schools, community colleges, and more. Job-seekers who have been locked out of today’s economy will be retrained and brought back into the fold in the Inland Empire’s economy. It’s time to retrain our workforce and build up the middle class, and this bill will help us do just that.” Rep. Aguilar’s bill would create a new tax credit allowing employers with five hundred or fewer employees to pay for half of the cost (up to $5,000) for training new hires, beginning in 2015 and running through 2017. The tax credit would cover apprenticeship programs, trainings offered by vocational or technical schools and community colleges, trainings offered by industrial or trade training organizations and labor unions, or industry-sponsored training programs. Closing the skills gap and increasing job training opportunities was included in Rep. Aguilar’s Jobs Plan, which can be read here. The text of the On-the-Job Training Tax Credit of 2015 can be read here and today’s remarks can be viewed here.
05.20.2015	Yesterday, Rep. Pete Aguilar introduced his first piece of legislation, H.R. 2431, the On-the-Job Training Tax Credit Act of 2015. The bill creates a temporary tax credit to help small businesses pay for the cost of training new hires. This legislation addresses the “skills gap” that exists between job-seekers and open jobs that require specific or technical skills. This was a topic raised by employers during Rep. Aguilar’s Jobs Tour. “Confronting the skills gap and empowering local employers to grow their workforce were a few of the biggest concerns I heard from employers and job-seekers during my Jobs Tour of the Inland Empire,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “This bill will enable local employers to hire more employees to support their businesses, while also equipping new employees with critical skills to help them succeed in our economy. This bill builds on successful programs we heard about during the Jobs Tour, like the San Bernardino County Workforce Investment Board’s On-the-Job Training program. I’m proud to introduce this legislation and look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to see it through and to continue to put Inland Empire residents back to work.” The On-the-Job Training Tax Credit Act creates a new tax credit that employers with five hundred or fewer employees can claim to pay for half of the cost for training employees, covering up to $5,000 in training expenses per worker. It is set to begin in 2015 and run through 2017. The credit can be used to pay for apprenticeship programs, trainings offered by vocational or technical schools and community colleges, trainings offered by industrial or trade training organizations and labor unions, or industry-sponsored training programs. Expanding job training opportunities is one of Rep. Aguilar’s top priorities, which he included in his Jobs Plan that was released in April and can be read in full here. The text of the On-the-Job Training Tax Credit Act of 2015 can be viewed here.
05.19.2015	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar (CA-31) fought to protect California transportation and infrastructure, supporting the Highway and Transportation Funding Act of 2015, which will allow authorized federal funding for transportation and infrastructure projects in California and across the country to continue through the deadline of July 31st. “Protecting the Inland Empire’s transportation and infrastructure projects is vital to our local economy and workforce. The Highway Trust Fund supports crucial initiatives in our community, including the Devore Interchange and the I-215 Bi-County HOV lane projects. With local projects and jobs on the line, we cannot continue with small patches and quick fixes to fund our regional transit system,” said Rep. Aguilar. He added, “The time is long overdue for Congress to introduce a long-term funding plan that allows localities the time and power to see regional projects through without impediments from the federal government. Our friends and neighbors deserve dependable public transportation and strong, thriving local economies that have access to reliable channels to transport goods and services to and from local businesses.” Rep. Aguilar voted in favor of H.R. 2353, the Highway and Transportation Funding Act of 2015, which passed with a vote of 387 to 35 to 1. The Highway Trust Fund supports a number of projects throughout California’s 31st congressional district, including the I-10 Tippecanoe Interchange Phase II and the I-15 Baseline Interchange among several others.
05.18.2015	On Friday, Rep. Pete Aguilar (CA-31) took to the House floor to fight for funding to improve California transportation and infrastructure. With only four legislative days left until the Highway and Transit Trust Fund expires, Rep. Aguilar urged House leadership to take action to address funding for transportation projects and crumbling infrastructure throughout California and the nation. “We have just four legislative days until the Highway and Transit Trust Fund expires on May 31st. Once again, we’ve been pushed to the brink because of Republican leadership choosing to continue small, short-term patches rather than a comprehensive and decisive planning document. We cannot gamble with our infrastructure and transportation network—our streets, our roads, our bridges, our railways are crumbling and aren’t up to par. We can’t afford to wait any longer for a long-term plan,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “The Highway Trust Fund supports critical projects in our communities. In my district in San Bernardino County, it would help fund the Devore Interchange, one of three routes in and out of Southern California, improving transportation and increasing efficiency for channeling goods in and out of the region. The American people deserve better—they deserve safe streets and roads, dependable transit to get to and from work, and the opportunity for local businesses to grow and expand. Without a long-term plan, Congress is part of the problem, not part of the solution.” The Highway and Transit Trust Fund will expire on May 31st if Congress does not act, which will jeopardize the future of approximately 660,000 jobs and 6,000 projects throughout the country. Rep. Aguilar’s remarks can be viewed here.
05.15.2015	Today, the House of Representatives approved four amendments submitted by Rep. Pete Aguilar (CA-31) that were included in the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016, which outlines the country’s defense priorities. The four amendments will help put veterans back to work, create a review process to encourage more minority students to pursue STEM careers, improve accessibility of Department of Defense (DOD) contracting opportunities for small businesses, and to support the San Bernardino County International Airport. “When I took office in January, I promised to stand up for working families and support initiatives that strengthen the middle class, which is precisely what these amendments will do. From sharing California’s model of putting veterans back to work to encouraging deserving women, minority, and disabled candidates to join the STEM workforce—these are the middle-class priorities I promised to fight for,” said Rep. Aguilar. He added, “My amendments also respond to the themes I heard on my Jobs Tour, including improving communication between small businesses and the federal government and addressing local security concerns that affect regional transportation and infrastructure. This is what I came to Congress to do—to put veterans back to work, to help small business owners succeed, to encourage our students to excel, and to fix our local infrastructure. I’m honored to represent the people of California’s 31st district, and I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to ensure that middle-class families always have a seat at the table.” The amendments were agreed to unanimously during the Armed Services Committee markup of the bill and during floor consideration. Rep. Aguilar voted in favor of H.R. 1735, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016. The bill passed the house on a 269 to 151 vote. Representative Aguilar serves on the House Armed Services Committee and he sits on the Subcommittees on Strategic Forces and Emerging Threats and Capabilities. He is also a member of the Work for Warriors Caucus.
05.14.2015	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar (CA-31) took to the House floor to stand up for DREAMers – children who were brought to the United States as children. He defended DREAMers as patriotic young adults and advocated for the right for them to serve in the military. Rep. Aguilar spoke against Rep. Mo Brooks’ (R-AL) amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), the legislation that sets the country’s defense priorities. The amendment would repeal language in the bill that supported allowing DREAMers to enlist and serve in the United States military. “Our men and women who risk their lives every day to keep our country safe and free deserve the utmost respect and admiration. They are tasked with a responsibility far greater than the rest of us. It takes bravery and honor to put their lives on the line every day to protect our nation and to promote our ideals of liberty and freedom. I believe we can all agree on this. What I cannot believe or understand is that some of my Republican colleagues think that it is fair to punish those who want to take on this courageous responsibility simply because they have not yet been granted full citizenship,” said Rep. Aguilar He continued, “My colleague from Arizona’s amendment passed out of committee and merely recognizes the willingness of DREAMers – young people brought to this country as children – to serve in the military for the country they love. For most, this is the only country they have ever known. We shouldn’t allow our broken immigration system to stand in the way of their distinguished military service.” Representative Aguilar serves on the House Armed Services Committee and he sits on the Subcommittees on Strategic Forces and Emerging Threats and Capabilities. His remarks can be viewed here.
05.13.2015	Last night, Rep. Pete Aguilar (CA-31) took to the House floor to fight for increased quality and integrity protections for California water. He offered an amendment to H.R. 1732, the Regulatory Integrity Protection Act of 2015, a bill that would rollback the Environmental Protection Agency’s ability to protect waterways from pollution. Rep. Aguilar’s amendment requires that the new rules included in the bill protect the quality and integrity of water used for the public’s drinking supply, drought mitigation, agriculture, and coastal flooding from hurricanes or super storms. “This motion is simple. It requires the Army Corps and the EPA to ensure that important surface waters and wetlands are protected during the new rulemaking process this bill starts. This motion requires that the quality of public water supplies be protected. Around the country we have seen drinking water sources contaminated, like the algal bloom in Lake Erie that forced Toledo, Ohio to use bottled water,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “In California, the historic drought has reduced many surface waters to stagnant pools of water. Seven million Californians rely on these streams for their drinking water. We need to make sure these drinking water sources are protected to keep families and communities healthy.” Rep. Aguilar is a member of the House Committee on Agriculture.
05.12.2015	On Sunday evening, Rep. Pete Aguilar (CA-31) and his wife Alisha completed a week-long SNAP challenge, where they could not spend more than $4.73 per person, per day on food – the average benefit for California’s Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) recipients. Rep. Aguilar and his wife did the challenge to raise awareness for nutrition and hunger throughout the Inland Empire and to better understand what thousands of families on SNAP throughout San Bernardino County go through every day. “This was definitely an eye-opening experience. While my wife and I were able to plan relatively well, we only did this for a week. For families relying on SNAP, this is their lifestyle—this is every day. As the father of two young sons, this is very personal to me. Thousands of parents in our community, especially single parents who work multiple jobs, struggle each day to find ways to plan balanced, healthy meals for their children,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “This challenge really showed me that we have a lot of work to do to ensure that parents aren’t forced to choose between what’s nutritious and what’s affordable. It’s critical that Congress safeguards funding for SNAP and expands resources for recipients that helps them find and plan healthy meals on a tight budget. I look forward to sharing my experience with my colleagues and working together to confront the issues of hunger and nutrition across the Inland Empire and the rest of the country.” Rep. Aguilar is a member of the House Committee on Agriculture and the Subcommittee on Nutrition, which has jurisdiction over the SNAP and other nutrition programs. He also recently joined the House Hunger Caucus, a bipartisan organization made up of Members dedicated to working on food insecurity issues. Rep. Aguilar and his wife Alisha did the SNAP challenge from Sunday, May 3rd through Sunday, May 10th. The Aguilars’ experience was documented by the Redlands Daily Facts and can be read here.
05.08.2015	Yesterday, Rep. Pete Aguilar (CA-31) met with students at the San Bernardino Valley College Dreamers Resource Center workshop. Rep. Aguilar joined students, immigration law experts and representatives of immigrant advocacy organizations, including Mi Familia Vota and Inland Congregations United for Change to discuss the immigration crisis and the plight of Dreamers. “The significance of passing comprehensive immigration reform is anchored in the stories and lives of the students I spoke with last night. This is about showing compassion and creating opportunity by bringing hardworking people into the fold of the Inland Empire’s economy and community," said Rep. Aguilar. He added, "We can’t give up on the American dream, and that starts by empowering young men and women like the students at San Bernardino Valley College with the ability to have a role in their community. This is about supporting families, not tearing them apart.” Since he took office in January, Rep. Aguilar has made comprehensive immigration reform a top priority. He has been a champion of President Obama’s actions to expand the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program and to create a new program for guardians of American-born children – Deferred Action for Parents of Americans and Lawful Permanent Residents (DAPA). Rep. Aguilar was also a leading voice in the successful fight to fund the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) without attaching anti-immigration riders to the funding bill. Rep. Aguilar’s floor remarks on DHS funding can be viewed here. Most recently, Rep. Aguilar met with Ernesto and Dina Gudiño to discuss the immigration crisis. Ernesto and Dina qualify for DAPA. They have lived in Redlands for eighteen years and are raising their three young children in the community. David Olson of the Press-Enterprise covered the event, which can be read here.
05.07.2015	This week, Rep. Pete Aguilar (CA-31) and his wife Alisha are participating in the “SNAP Challenge.” The SNAP Challenge encourages individuals to spend only $4.73 a day on food, which is the average daily amount for a California SNAP (Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program) recipient. As a member of the Agriculture Committee and Nutrition Subcommittee, Rep. Aguilar is taking steps to understand what tens of thousands of residents throughout San Bernardino County and more across the United States experience every day. “My wife and I wanted to do this together so we can get a glimpse of what more than 32,000 families throughout my district experience every day. We sat down to map out our meals and tried to find a balance between what is healthy and what is affordable—a struggle thousands of families throughout my community face on a daily basis,” said Rep. Pete Aguilar. He added, “As a husband and father, this really hits home. No child should have to go to bed hungry and no mother or father should have to sacrifice healthy and nutritious options simply because they cannot afford it. We need to do better by our friends and neighbors, and I look forward to completing this challenge and sharing my experience with my colleagues so together we can confront hunger and nutrition in the United States.” Rep. Aguilar and his wife Alisha started the challenge on Monday morning after purchasing a little over $60 worth of groceries total for the week. The Redlands Daily Facts has been documenting the experience. Posts from Monday and Tuesday can be read online.
05.06.2015	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar (CA-31) announced his co-sponsorship of a bill to raise the federal minimum wage. The Raise the Wage Act would incrementally raise the federal minimum wage from $7.25 to $12.00 by 2020. “Thousands of hardworking men and women throughout the Inland Empire work full time and still live below the poverty line. That’s unacceptable. The time is long overdue to raise the minimum wage to give our residents the ability to keep up with the rising cost of everyday living expenses and provide for their families,” said Rep. Aguilar. According to a recent study done by the Economic Policy Institute, over two million California employees who work more than 35 hours a week at the minimum wage could see their paychecks increase to $12.00 an hour by 2020 [Economic Policy Institute, 2015]. Raising the minimum wage is a top priority for Rep. Aguilar, and a key component of his Jobs Plan, which was unveiled last month.
04.30.2015	Yesterday, California Representatives Pete Aguilar (D, CA-31) and Colonel Paul Cook (R, CA-08) introduced legislation to help states create pilot programs to put veterans back to work. Their amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act, which outlines the nation’s defense priorities, enables the Department of Defense to fund job placement programs for members of the National Guard and Reserve, similar to the ‘Work for Warriors’ program in California. Expansion of the Work for Warriors program was included in Rep. Aguilar’s Jobs Plan released earlier this month. “With nearly 4,000 California veterans finding work through the Work for Warriors program, we need to empower other states to follow our lead to help veterans across the nation find full-time work. Colonel Paul Cook and Congressman Mark Takano have done an incredible job advocating for Work for Warriors, and I’m proud to take a lead role in expanding employment opportunities for our service members,” said Rep. Aguilar. "The Work for Warriors program is the most effective jobs program I know of for Service Members," said Maj. Gen. David S. Baldwin, Adjutant General of the California National Guard. "Rep. Aguilar's work as a member of the Armed Services Committee to support the program will help many guardsmen and veterans in the San Bernardino area." Rep. Paul Cook said, “The Work for Warriors program in California has been hugely successful and cost effective. I hope this legislation will replicate the success we’ve had in California. Federal job placement programs often cost ten times more than what we’re attempting here. I’m optimistic that this nationwide pilot program can be just as effective at helping to put our service members back to work. I want to thank Rep. Aguilar for joining with me in recognizing the critical need for this program and helping to ensure its inclusion in this year’s NDAA. I also want to thank Rep. Takano (D-CA) and Rep. Mulvaney (R-SC) for their leadership in introducing the original legislation with me earlier this year.” Representatives Pete Aguilar and Paul Cook are members of the Work for Warriors Caucus and serve on the House Armed Services Committee. Their amendment passed the House Armed Services Committee by unanimous consent and was added to the National Defense Authorization Act, which was voted out of Committee early this morning. The full text of the Aguilar-Cook Amendment is available here.
04.27.2015	This weekend, Rep. Pete Aguilar (CA-31) met with constituents at Johnny Carino’s in Rancho Cucamonga for his latest ‘Coffee with your Congressman’ event. Saturday’s meeting was the most recent event in an ongoing series of intimate and informal sessions with constituents. Rep. Aguilar originally started the program when he served on the Redlands City Council and has continued it since taking office earlier this year. “It’s important for me to meet with people in the community and these informal meetings are a great way to hear directly from residents about the issues that matter most to them. This weekend, I spoke with Rancho Cucamonga residents about a number of concerns, from job creation to support for our veterans to preserving Social Security and Medicare,” said Rep. Aguilar. He continued, “We also discussed my Jobs Plan and the steps we need to take to get our economy back on track. From tax credits for small businesses to creating good-paying manufacturing jobs to making education more affordable – we have a lot of work to do to get our economy moving again, and it’s important to continue getting feedback from residents through these types of events across the Inland Empire.” Saturday’s event at Johnny Carino’s was the latest in Rep. Aguilar’s recurring series with constituents. His last “Coffee with your Congressman” event was held in Redlands, and he has previously held sessions in San Bernardino, which was covered by the San Bernardino County Sun and can be read here.
04.23.2015	Last week, Rep. Pete Aguilar (CA-31) marked his first 100 days in office by releasing a Jobs Plan – his strategy to create jobs throughout the Inland Empire and get the local economy back on track. The Jobs Plan release follows his Jobs Tour, where Rep. Aguilar met with local businesses, employees, elected officials, labor stakeholders and others about the best ways to create jobs in the Inland Empire. Following his announcement, Rep. Aguilar spoke on the House floor to share his proposal, and this week he authored an editorial where he detailed his plan to get the Inland Empire economy back on the road to recovery. “Changes Needed for Middle Class to Thrive” is Rep. Aguilar’s most recent editorial since he took office on January 6th. Rep. Aguilar’s plan addresses four main areas to put Inland Empire residents back to work and get the local economy moving again. They include: support for small businesses to grow and expand, create 21st century jobs in emerging sectors such as renewable energy and biotechnology, connect job seekers with employers and job training programs, and invest in infrastructure to support business growth. To read the editorial in full, please visit the Redlands Daily Facts. Rep. Aguilar’s remarks on the House floor can be viewed here, and his Jobs Plan can be found at www.aguilar.house.gov.
04.16.2015	After marking one hundred days in office yesterday, Rep. Pete Aguilar (CA-31) unveiled his Jobs Plan this morning; his strategy for kick-starting the Inland Empire economy and putting residents back to work. The release of his Jobs Plan follows his Jobs Tour, which he started in January and continued through last week. During the Jobs Tour, Rep. Aguilar held a number of Jobs Roundtable discussions with small business owners, community members, labor representatives, and job seekers throughout San Bernardino County. He also traveled across the district to visit with business owners and employees at their job sites. "While we have made progress since the financial crisis hit seven years ago, many families throughout the Inland Empire are still struggling to make ends meet. That’s why I spent my first one hundred days in office traveling across the district to discuss job creation directly with San Bernardino County's small business owners, community members, labor representatives, and job seekers,” said Rep. Pete Aguilar. He added, “My Jobs Plan lays out the steps we need to grow the Inland Empire economy and put our residents back to work." Rep. Aguilar’s plan addresses four core areas to get the local economy back on track, including: supporting small businesses to help them grow and expand, creating 21st century jobs in emerging sectors including renewable energy and biotechnology, connecting those looking for work with employers and job training, and investing in infrastructure to support business growth. The Jobs Plan also calls for bipartisan support on commonsense issues including pay equity for men and women, raising the minimum wage, investing in early childhood education, and passing comprehensive immigration reform. Rep. Aguilar’s Jobs Plan can be read in full here.
04.15.2015	On Tax Day, Rep. Pete Aguilar (CA-31), along with Rep. Mike Quigley (IL-05) and Rep. Raul Ruiz (CA-36), introduced the Ending Taxpayer Subsidies for Yachts Act to end a special tax break for yacht owners. The bill ends a special tax provision that allows luxury yacht owners to deduct their interest payments on their yachts by calling them second homes. The change is estimated to save more than $150 million over the next ten years. “This is a commonsense bill that closes a tax loophole so that middle-class families no longer subsidize yachts for the ultra-wealthy,” said Rep. Aguilar. “We can't continue to give tax breaks for multimillionaires while cutting education and services for seniors and veterans. This bill will help us level the playing field and make the tax code more fair for the middle class.” Rep. Aguilar also fought today for Inland Empire taxpayers by supporting the Taxpayer Bill of Rights Act of 2015, an initiative that requires the IRS to adhere to a list of rights which protects taxpayers and promotes a fairer tax system. “Taxpayers should have the right to be heard, be informed, and have access to any help that they may need to understand and participate in a fair and just tax system,” said Rep Aguilar. He added, “This is commonsense legislation that will help middle-class families throughout the Inland Empire who deserve accountability and transparency from their government and services affiliated with it.” The bill, H.R. 1058, passed the House unanimously today. Rep. Aguilar has a record of fighting for San Bernardino County taxpayers. He also supported H.R. 636, the America’s Small Business Tax Relief Act, which permanently extends three different tax provisions that are commonly used by small businesses, including Section 179 expensing. He is also a co-sponsor of legislation to repeal the medical device tax that affects local manufacturers and a bill to reduce the federal excise tax on local small breweries.
04.13.2015	On Friday, Rep. Pete Aguilar (CA-31) continued his jobs tour at the America’s Job Center of California in San Bernardino. He joined members of the County of San Bernardino Workforce Investment Board to take a tour of the training facility and discuss job creation in the Inland Empire. “I’m glad I had the opportunity to join members of the County of San Bernardino Workforce Investment Board for a tour of the jobs center on Friday afternoon. Since I took office in January, I’ve been meeting with community members to discuss how we can grow the Inland Empire’s economy and create 21st century jobs throughout San Bernardino County," said Rep. Aguilar. He added, "Friday’s visit gave me the opportunity to explore our local training programs and resources, which are crucial to investing and strengthening our region’s workforce and getting our economy back on track.” "Our job seekers and other clients were thrilled to meet Congressman Aguilar," said Sandy Harmsen, executive director of the County of San Bernardino Workforce Investment Board. "He took the time to ask many questions and learn about the people we help. At the county's three America's Job Centers, we offer free services to those looking for a job or seeking to build a new career. These include access to funds for training, a staff person to walk them through the entire process, help with resumes and interview skills, and even funds for tools or supplies needed to complete training." Rep. Aguilar has been traveling across San Bernardino County since taking office in January, meeting with small business owners, community leaders, and labor representatives to discuss job creation in the Inland Empire. Friday’s visit was the latest stop on his jobs tour. The County of San Bernardino Workforce Investment Board operates the America’s Job Center of California, with locations in San Bernardino, Rancho Cucamonga, and Victorville. It helps train unemployed job seekers and assists small businesses.
04.10.2015	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar (CA-31) hosted a roundtable discussion with veterans to discuss critical issues facing our veterans today, including health care, the VA backlog, housing, and unemployment. Local veterans, representatives from veterans’ organizations, and health care professionals participated in the roundtable held at the San Bernardino Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW) Post 8737. “I’m grateful to the veterans who joined me today for this important discussion. Our brave men and women in uniform risk their lives every day to keep us safe and free – yet they don’t get the care they deserve when they return home,” said Rep. Aguilar. He added, “From the VA backlog to lack of affordable housing and high unemployment, we need to do better by our veterans. I will continue advocating for policies and programs that provide our veterans with the resources they need to readjust to civilian life and live healthy, productive lives.” United States Marine and Vietnam veteran Richard Valdez participated in Friday’s roundtable. He said, “I think it’s great that Rep. Aguilar had this event, in fact, we need to have more of them. We were able to discuss several issues, including education, mental health, and specific concerns facing women veterans. I was also pleased to see VA representatives, County representatives, and other officials who listened to what we had to say. I’m glad I was able to participate and look forward to attending more events like this in the future.” Mr. Valdez is also the California Department Legislative Director for the Disabled American Veterans. Only three months into office, Rep. Aguilar has championed several initiatives that support Inland Empire veterans. He co-sponsored a bill that would establish a pilot program to support on-the-job-training and apprenticeships for veterans. He also voted for legislation that creates incentives for businesses to hire more veterans, and he supported a resolution that aims to reduce military and veteran suicides, while improving access to quality mental health services. Rep. Aguilar sits on the House Armed Services Committee and is a member of the Work for Warriors Caucus, a caucus that works to try to connect veterans with employers seeking their specialized skills.
04.08.2015	Yesterday, Rep. Pete Aguilar (CA-31) met with Ernesto and Dina Gudiño of Redlands and their family to discuss immigration reform. Both Ernesto and Dina, parents to three American-born children, are eligible for Deferred Action for Parents of Americans and Lawful Permanent Residents (DAPA) under President Obama’s executive orders issued last year. They have lived in the United States for eighteen years, raising their family in Redlands, however due to their undocumented status, they are at risk of being deported and torn away from their children who are citizens. “The time is long overdue for us to repair our broken immigration system. The Senate passed a bipartisan bill nearly two years ago, which the House leadership has refused to bring to the floor. This is about showing compassion and keeping families together, and also bringing hard working men and women like Ernesto and Dina into the fold of the Inland Empire’s economy. While I realize a difficult road lies ahead, I’m confident that Democrats and Republicans will be able to work together to finally see this through,” said Rep. Aguilar. Rep. Aguilar has been a vocal supporter of comprehensive immigration reform. Last week, he joined 180 of his colleagues and signed an amicus brief in support of the President’s immigration executive orders, which would expand Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) and create a new program for parents of American-born children—DAPA—under which both Ernesto and Dina would qualify. In February, a federal district judge in Texas halted the enrollment period for DACA and DAPA applicants, which was originally set to begin on February 18th. The Obama administration is currently appealing the ruling. Rep. Aguilar spoke on the House floor several times during the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) showdown when Republicans tried to force a shutdown of the DHS in an attempt to roll back the President’s executive orders. Rep. Aguilar also co-authored a letter to Speaker Boehner, calling for an end to the showdown and for an immediate vote to fully fund the DHS without harmful anti-immigration policies intended to block DACA and DAPA. The amicus brief, which supports the administration’s appeal, can be read here, and the letter to Speaker Boehner can be read here. Rep. Aguilar’s floor remarks can be viewed here. Tuesday’s meeting with the Gudiños was facilitated by the Coalition for Humane Immigration Rights of Los Angeles (CHIRLA).
03.31.2015	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar released the following statement in honor of Chicano Civil Rights leader and activist, César Chávez: “Today we honor the life and work of César Chávez, a titan in the Chicano Civil Rights Movement. He was a local farmer and activist, who ultimately rose to become one of the most influential grassroots civil rights and labor leaders in the Chicano community.” “While he is no longer with us, his voice, work, and the community he cultivated live on through those who stood beside him, including Dolores Huerta, and through those who will continue to carry his message forward.” “I was proud to co-sponsor a resolution honoring the accomplishments and legacy of César Chávez, recognizing his mission to attain dignity and respect for farm workers, and his practice of nonviolence. He empowered our community and nation, and inspired others fighting for human rights around the world.” Last week, Rep. Aguilar co-sponsored a resolution honoring César Chávez. He also attended the Inland Empire Chicano Latino Caucus’ 4th Annual César Chávez Memorial breakfast in San Bernardino on Saturday. César Chávez Day is a national holiday celebrated on March 31st.
03.30.2015	Late last week, Rep. Pete Aguilar (CA-31) called on California State Bar President Craig Holden to conduct an inquiry into the homophobic ballot proposal submitted by attorney Matthew McLaughlin, which would permit the murder of gay and lesbian Californians. In a letter sent to Mr. Holden, Rep. Aguilar suggested an investigation be conducted and possible disciplinary action be taken, including disbarment. He wrote: “The contents of this proposal, and views of Mr. McLaughlin, are homophobic, beyond the pale, and unbecoming of an officer of the court. The notion that persons can be singled out and murdered because of their sexual orientation is repugnant and constitutes a violent threat to countless citizens and individuals within our community.” “This cannot be tolerated, and I believe that an inquiry must be conducted into this proposal and those disciplinary actions, including disbarment, that may be applicable in this circumstance.” The disturbing ballot initiative calls for a law authorizing “any person who willingly touches another person of the same gender for purposes of sexual gratification be put to death by bullets to the head or by any other convenient method.” Last week, California Attorney General Kamala Harris sought a court order to stop the proposal from moving forward. Rep. Aguilar’s letter can be read in full here.
03.25.2015	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar (CA-31) co-sponsored the Paycheck Fairness Act, which would help end wage discrimination against women. Women currently earn 78 cents for every dollar men make, on average. “I’m proud to support the Paycheck Fairness Act. This commonsense legislation will make strides in closing the wage gap between men and women performing the same jobs in the workplace. It is unconscionable that in 2015 we are still debating whether women deserve equal pay to men. In our communities, African American women only make 64 cents and Hispanic women only make 56 cents to every dollar made by men. Pay equity is not just a women’s issue – it’s a family issue,” said Aguilar. He added, “Women make up half of our workforce; they are our doctors, our scientists, our public servants, and our soldiers—they deserve equal pay for their work and sacrifice. I look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to see this through, and I’m confident that together we will be able to continue the work that was started fifty years ago with the Equal Pay Act.” The Paycheck Fairness Act was reintroduced today by Rep. DeLauro (CT-03). The bill would close loopholes in the Equal Pay Act (1963) that allow employers to deny equal pay for men and women for doing the same work. The bill requires that employers show that pay differences between men and women doing the same work are performance-based and not related to gender, and improves reporting standards and remedies for women who have experienced pay discrimination.
03.25.2015	Rep. Pete Aguilar (CA-31) released the following statement on his vote against the Republican House budget: “Today, I voted against the House Republican Budget because it dismantles Medicare and slashes funding for California students, while cutting taxes for corporations and the wealthiest of Americans. Instead of leveling the playing field for the middle class, this budget would force Inland Empire families, students, and seniors to pay more, while asking multi-millionaires and special interests to pay less.” “Instead, I supported an alternative budget, which makes college more affordable, strengthens Medicare, and invests in small businesses and cutting-edge research to grow the economy and create 21st Century jobs in San Bernardino County.” “Inland Empire families are already struggling to keep up with the rising costs of everyday living expenses. The last thing Congress should be doing is making the cost of a college education or a retirement even more expensive and further out of reach.”
03.24.2015	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar (CA-31) joined members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) for a press conference to highlight the dangers of the GOP House Budget that was unveiled last week, which include massive cuts to funding for education. The proposed budget would drastically reduce investments in higher education, including Pell Grants, which help more than one million students in California attend college. “Today, I stand with my colleagues to bring attention to the dangerous and reckless House Republican budget. Their proposed budget would punish working families across the nation by balancing America’s checkbook on the backs of the middle class. One of the groups most devastated by these cuts will be our students. Higher education would be slashed by more than $220 billion over the next ten years. Specifically, $89 billion for Pell Grant increases -- that Congress has already enacted and paid for -- would be eliminated.” said Rep. Aguilar He continued, “Fifty-one percent of Latino undergrads receive Pell Grant funding. I should know— I was one of them. I put myself through college with Pell Grants and part-time jobs. We cannot balance the budget on the backs of students and the middle class.” Rep. Aguilar was a Pell Grant recipient when he was a student at the University of Redlands. Congressional Hispanic Caucus Chairwoman Linda Sanchez and Reps. Becerra, Castro, Torres, Lujan Grisham, and Gallego also participated in the press event earlier today.
03.23.2015	This weekend, Rep. Pete Aguilar (CA-31) met with constituents at Mitla Café in San Bernardino for his first “Coffee with your Congressman” event. Saturday’s meeting was the first in an ongoing series of intimate and informal sessions with constituents, a program Rep. Aguilar originally started when he served on the Redlands City Council. “This was an incredible opportunity to hear directly from residents about problems they’re facing each and every day. I’m grateful to have spent my Saturday morning with members of the community to discuss a wide array of issues, from job creation to transportation and infrastructure to Social Security and Medicare. The Inland Empire’s middle-class families are still on the road to recovery since the recession, and events like this allow me to hear firsthand about their experiences,” said Rep. Aguilar. He added, “When I served on the Redlands City Council, I saw how helpful and effective these personal meetings were for both me and my constituents, which is why I wanted to continue this series as their Representative. I heard many touching stories and received important feedback, and I look forward to continuing these events with San Bernardino County residents in the coming weeks and months.” Over 50 people attended the meeting on Saturday morning at Mitla Café. “Coffee with your Congressman” will be a recurring event for Rep. Aguilar, with later dates to be announced in the coming weeks. The San Bernardino County Sun covered the event. It can be read here.
03.18.2015	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar (CA-31) released a recorded statement honoring women in recognition of Women’s History Month, which is celebrated throughout the month of March. “This Women’s History month we honor the sacrifices and achievements made by the women who have moved our nation forward, from pioneers such as Susan B. Anthony, who led the women’s suffrage movement, to young female leaders today who continue that fight, advocating for full equality at home and in the work place. We owe it to the women who paved the way and to those who walk in their footsteps to remember and honor their service to our nation.” said Aguilar in a recorded statement. He continued, “That is why today I’m asking you to not only join me in remembering these courageous women, but to stand with me and help finish what they started. Until our nation’s daughters have the same opportunities as our sons, our work is not over. This Women’s History Month, I encourage you to celebrate the contributions that America’s women have made throughout our history, and to carry their message forward so together we can ensure that women have the economic security and opportunities they deserve.” The video can be watched in full here.
03.17.2015	This afternoon, Rep. Pete Aguilar (CA-31) took to the House floor to stand up for seniors, students, and middle-class families in response to the Republican Budget, which was revealed earlier today. “If the GOP budget revealed today should come to pass, it would have devastating effects on America’s middle class and undo the progress that we have made. This budget will force middle-class families to work harder and get less. The GOP has presented us with legislation that will keep paychecks stagnant, making it harder to buy a home; it would cut student loans, making it difficult for kids to afford college; and it would strip away secure retirement by privatizing Medicare,” said Aguilar. He continued, “We cannot afford to balance America’s checkbook on the backs of the middle class. In the district where I come from—California’s Inland Empire—families are struggling from the recession and are fighting to catch up with the rest of the nation. I cannot and will not ask them to bear this burden because the GOP can’t pass a budget.” The proposed budget contains devastating cuts to seniors, students, and working families. The plan would voucherize Medicare, exposing some of America’s most vulnerable population. It would also slash funding for student loans and continue the draconian cuts created by the sequester, forcing America’s working families to pay the price for the House GOP’s inability to balance a budget. Rep. Aguilar’s remarks can be viewed here.
03.06.2015	Today, Representative Pete Aguilar issued the following statement in response to the Department of Labor’s February jobs report. “Today’s jobs report is a reflection of how far our national economy has come since the financial crisis we faced seven years ago. While we are clearly making strides to put Americans back to work nationally, our job is far from over, especially in San Bernardino County where many working families have yet to feel that difference.” “My priority has always been to create and support policies that will benefit the Inland Empire’s middle class, and grow our local economy. I have had the opportunity to work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to support bills that will help local businesses hire more employees to be more competitive with larger companies, and I have co-sponsored legislation to help veterans find employment and receive on-the-job training.” “I’m proud of what I have been able to accomplish in the few short months I’ve been in office, but there is much that lies ahead. I look forward to continuing to work with my Democratic and Republican colleagues so we can finally put San Bernardino County residents back to work. I’m confident that if Congress keeps its focus on key middle-class issues, specifically job creation and investments in transportation and infrastructure, we will be able to provide the Inland Empire’s working families with the resources they need to catch up to the rest of the nation.” The Department of Labor released its jobs report for the month of February this morning. According to the report, the national economy added 295,000 jobs last month, lowering the unemployment rate from 5.7% in January to 5.5%. Last month, Rep. Aguilar held a series of Jobs Roundtable Discussions with San Bernardino County business owners, community leaders, veterans, and labor representatives to discuss job creation and economic opportunity in the Inland Empire.
03.05.2015	This week marks sixty days into Rep. Pete Aguilar’s first term in office. In just under two months, the former Redlands Mayor has been busy working with his Democratic and Republican colleagues on meaningful legislation to help small business owners, veterans, students, and working families. He also took on a prominent role in the call for immediate funding for the Department of Homeland Security, and he held a series of Jobs Roundtable Discussions to talk about job creation and economic growth throughout San Bernardino County. January 2015: Rep. Aguilar co-sponsored the Protect Medical Innovation Act, introduced by Rep. Erik Paulsen (R-MN). This bill repeals the medical device tax that was implemented as part of the Affordable Care Act. It would help Inland Empire medical device manufacturers by alleviating them of a burdensome tax, which has forced business owners to slow investments in research and development, and cut jobs. Rep. Aguilar co-sponsored the Small BREW Act, also introduced by Rep. Erik Paulsen (R-MN). This bill helps Inland Empire’s local brewers by lowering the federal excise tax on small brewers, leveling the playing field with large distributors. Rep. Aguilar co-sponsored the All-Year ACCESS Act, which was introduced by Rep. Loretta Sanchez (D-CA). This bill would restore access to full-year Pell Grants, and would help non-traditional and part-time students take summer and winter break classes. Rep. Aguilar co-sponsored the Manufacturing Jobs for Veterans Act. Introduced by Rep. Suzan DelBene (D-WA), this bill would establish a pilot State Manufacturing Employment Program to support training, apprenticeships, and certification classes for veterans. February and March 2015: Rep. Aguilar fought to prevent the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) from shutting down. He spoke on the House Floor three times, urging Speaker Boehner to bring a clean bill to a vote to ensure that DHS was fully funded through the end of the fiscal year. He co-authored a letter to the Speaker with Rep. Ruben Gallego (AZ-07) demanding a vote on DHS funding, and gained the support of 122 of his colleagues. After weeks of advocating, Speaker Boehner finally agreed and brought a clean bill up for a vote. It passed 257-167 and was signed into law by the President. During the month of February, Rep. Aguilar held Jobs Roundtable Discussions across San Bernardino County with local business owners, community leaders, labor representatives, and veterans to talk about job creation and economic growth in the district. The forums were held in San Bernardino, Rancho Cucamonga, and Redlands. Rep. Aguilar co-sponsored and voted for legislation to help local small businesses. He voted for the Small Business Regulatory Flexibility Improvements Act, which requires federal agencies to take into account the costs that small businesses may incur from new regulations. Rep. Aguilar also voted for America’s Small Business Tax Relief Act, which will permanently extend three different tax provisions commonly used by many small businesses. “Since the day I took office, my primary focus has always been to support policies that grow the economy and strengthen the Inland Empire’s middle class. I have supported several bills that help small business owners, veterans, students, and seniors. I look forward to strengthening the relationships I’ve formed with my Democratic and Republican colleagues so we can continue to work together on behalf of San Bernardino County families,” said Rep. Pete Aguilar
03.04.2015	Today, Representative Pete Aguilar delivered remarks on the House floor, urging the House majority to govern more responsibly, and focus their attention on middle-class families rather than engage in party politics. This comes on the heels of the House Republicans’ recent threat to shut down the Department of Homeland Security in an attempt to side-step President Obama’s executive action orders on immigration. “Last week we were pushed to the brink of shutting down the Department of Homeland Security, the agency tasked with safeguarding our homeland from threats here and abroad, all because Congress couldn’t do its job. Only weeks after the horrific attacks in Paris, and with news of ISIS every day, the House majority risked the national security our country to play party politics. Threatening a shutdown of the DHS was reckless, unnecessary, and completely avoidable. The House majority’s games have forced Congress away from its most critical priority: working for middle-class families to create jobs, improve transportation and infrastructure, invest in education, help our veterans, and protect programs for our seniors. It’s time for us to stop playing games and get back to doing what the people of our districts elected us to do.” Representative Aguilar has been a leader on funding for the Department of Homeland Security, speaking on the House floor three times and co-authoring a letter with Rep. Ruben Gallego (AZ-07) to Speaker Boehner last month. His remarks can be viewed here and the letter can be read here. Yesterday, the House passed a bipartisan bill to fully fund the Department of Homeland Security through September.
03.03.2015	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar (CA-31) issued a public statement following Tuesday afternoon’s vote on a clean bill to fund the Department of Homeland Security through the remainder of the fiscal year: “I commend my Democratic and Republican colleagues for working together to avert a national security crisis. We have been faced with too many shutdown threats, and it’s my hope that the House majority has learned from this and will stop governing in constant crisis mode. Today we saw that bipartisan solutions are possible, and I’m optimistic that we can continue working together moving forward.” The House of Representatives passed the funding bill with a 257 to 167 vote. The bipartisan legislation, which is free of anti-immigration riders that would roll back President Obama’s executive action, passed the Senate last week 68 to 31. It is expected to be signed into law by President Obama later today, and will fund the Department of Homeland Security through September.
03.02.2015	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar (CA-31) released the following statement in recognition of Women’s History Month, which is celebrated during the month of March. “This month we honor the sacrifices and achievements made by the women who have pushed our nation forward, from pioneers such as Susan B. Anthony, who led the women’s suffrage movement, to young female leaders today who continue that fight, advocating for full equality at home and in the work place. The women of our nation represent the brightest minds in the fields of math and science, they are our most dedicated public servants, and they have given their lives in the line of duty to ensure the safety and sovereignty of our country.” “While we have made strides over the years, we still have work to do. Until the attacks on women’s access to healthcare cease and until we finally see pay equity fulfilled, this job is far from over.” “We owe it to the women who paved the way and to those who walk in their footsteps, to remember and honor their service to our nation.” Women’s History Month is celebrated throughout the month of March, honoring women of the past and present for their achievements and contributions to our nation.
02.27.2015	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar (CA-31) issued a public statement following Friday night’s series of votes to fund the Department of Homeland Security: “I commend my colleagues on both sides of the aisle for reaching an agreement tonight, ensuring that the Department of Homeland Security will remain open and continue to operate normally. We averted a crisis this evening, but more importantly we have established the next steps for how we will fully fund DHS through the remainder of the fiscal year. I’m glad my Republican and Democratic colleagues share my belief that threatening a shutdown is no way to govern, and I look forward to passing the full Department of Homeland Security appropriations bill next week.” The bill passed Friday night will continue to fund the Department of Homeland Security for seven days, and an agreement reached between House and Senate leadership provides a pathway to passing a long-term funding bill next week.
02.27.2015	Yesterday, Rep. Pete Aguilar (CA-31) led his colleagues and made the first Unanimous Consent request to urge Speaker John Boehner to immediately take up funding for the Department of Homeland Security, which is scheduled to expire tonight at midnight if a bill is not passed and signed into law. Reported by The Hill, Rep. Aguilar was the first Member to make a Unanimous Consent request, calling on Speaker John Boehner to take up H.R. 861, which would fully fund the Department of Homeland Security through the 2015 fiscal year. Representatives Roybal-Allard and Lowey introduced the bill two weeks ago. Rep. Aguilar said, “I ask unanimous consent that the House bring H.R. 861, the clean Department of Homeland Security funding bill that would keep the department open, so it can carry out its mission of keeping the American people safe.” The story can be read in full here. Rep. Aguilar has spoken on the House floor twice concerning funding for the Department of Homeland Security. Both sets of remarks can be viewed here. He co-authored a letter with Rep. Ruben Gallego (AZ-07) to Speaker John Boehner last week, urging him to take up a clean funding bill for a vote immediately. The letter can be read here.
02.26.2015	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar (CA-31) issued the following statement as Congress approaches twenty-four hours until the February 27th deadline to fund the Department of Homeland Security. “We never should have gotten to this point—to be twenty-four hours away from a shutdown of the Department of Homeland Security was completely avoidable and is absolutely unacceptable. Speaker Boehner and the House majority need to stop gambling with American lives and jobs, and pass a clean bill immediately. Senate Republicans have initiated the process to pass a clean funding bill, leaving it to the House to decide if it will follow suit. I’ve said it countless times, but I will say it again: We have emerging threats across the world that are uncovered every day—we cannot afford to deplete the department that is responsible for combatting these aggressions. I urge Speaker Boehner to allow a clean funding bill on the floor for a vote immediately.” If Congress fails to pass legislation to fund the Department of Homeland Security before tomorrow night’s deadline, the department will face a partial shutdown. San Bernardino County received crucial grants from DHS last year. According to the California Office of Emergency Services, DHS allocated over $430,000 in Emergency Management Performance Grants, more than $1.5 million in State Homeland Security Program grants, and over $800,000 through the Urban Areas Security Initiative. A shutdown of the agency poses a threat to the allocation of these critical funds for San Bernardino County in the coming year. This afternoon, Rep. Pete Aguilar led his colleagues on the House Floor by making a Unanimous Consent request in an attempt to force Speaker Boehner to immediately take up H.R. 861, legislation Reps. Roybal-Allard and Lowey introduced nearly two weeks ago. This would fully fund DHS through the 2015 fiscal year, and is free of dangerous anti-immigration riders. This is the second time Rep. Aguilar has spoken on the House floor regarding DHS funding. His remarks can be found here. He joined Rep. Ruben Gallego (AZ-07) to co-author a letter to Speaker Boehner last week asking him to take up a clean funding bill immediately. The letter can be read here.
02.25.2015	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar (CA-31) issued the following statement as Congress approaches forty-eight hours until the February 27th deadline to fund the Department of Homeland Security. “We are now forty-eight hours away from a partial Department of Homeland Security shutdown. With Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell now allowing a vote on a clean funding bill in the Senate, there is no reason why we can’t pass this immediately. If the House majority refuses to bring a clean funding bill to the floor for a vote and forces DHS to shut down, this will hurt American workers and will jeopardize the national security of the United States. As we’re on the heels of the horrific events in Paris and with reports on ISIS daily, we cannot afford to close the agency tasked with deterring these types of attacks that threaten our safety and sovereignty. Again, I urge Speaker Boehner to allow a clean funding bill on the floor immediately, and to end this political standoff.” If Congress fails to pass legislation to fund the Department of Homeland Security before the February 27th deadline, the agency will face a partial shutdown. The shutdown threatens crucial grants allocated to states, including California. Last year, California received over $27 million in Emergency Management Performance Grants and $60 million under the State Homeland Security Grant Program. The Department of Homeland Security is also responsible for allotting Assistance to Firefighters Grants, of which Redlands received over $70,000 in 2013. If the House majority forces a shutdown, Americans will feel the devastating effects everywhere, from Washington, D.C. to the Inland Empire. [Department of Homeland Security, EMPG 2014] [Department of Homeland Security, SHSP 2014][Department of Homeland Security, AFG 2013] Rep. Pete Aguilar spoke on the House Floor earlier this month, urging Speaker Boehner to allow a vote on a clean bill to fully fund DHS through the 2015 fiscal year, one that is free of dangerous anti-immigration riders. His remarks can be found here. Last week, Rep. Aguilar and Rep. Ruben Gallego (AZ-07) co-authored a letter to Speaker Boehner, asking him to end the standoff and introduce a clean funding bill immediately. The letter can be read here.
02.21.2015	In light of Friday night’s announcement of an agreement between the International Longshoremen and Warehouse Union and the Pacific Maritime Association, Rep. Pete Aguilar offered the following statement: "I'm very pleased to hear the news that an agreement was reached between the International Longshoremen and Warehouse Union and the Pacific Maritime Association. I applaud both organizations for working together to see this through, as well as U.S. Labor Secretary Perez for assisting with negotiations. As our nation is just in the early stages of economic recovery, reaching an agreement was pivotal for the stability of California's economy and the United States as a whole. Again, I commend both groups for their cooperation and look forward to getting our ports and trade operations back on track." Earlier this month, Representative Aguilar joined members of the California Congressional Delegation to send a letter to both groups, urging them to reach an agreement immediately. Representative Aguilar serves California’s 31st congressional district, which encompasses part of San Bernardino County including Rancho Cucamonga, San Bernardino, and Redlands.
02.20.2015	This week, Rep. Pete Aguilar (CA-31) traveled throughout San Bernardino County, holding Jobs Roundtable discussions with small business owners, veterans, and community leaders to talk about job creation and economic growth in the Inland Empire. The meetings were held in San Bernardino, Rancho Cucamonga, and Redlands over the course of the week. “It’s important that I hear directly from constituents throughout the district about what they’re experiencing on the ground. Small business owners in Rancho Cucamonga face different obstacles than veterans in San Bernardino or community leaders in Redlands. We had some incredible conversations and discussed specific solutions for these problems, whether it is addressing the skills gap, providing tax incentives for small businesses to expand and create new jobs, or investing in workforce training.” said Rep. Pete Aguilar. Doug Rowand, Owner and CEO of Arrowhead United Way, participated in the San Bernardino roundtable discussion on Tuesday. “Representative Aguilar clearly demonstrated his leadership by uniting such a diverse group of people to gather ideas on such a crucial issue as job creation,” said Rowand. He added, “It was a wonderful event and an important opportunity that I’m grateful to have shared with my fellow business owners and community members.” Sandy Harmsen, Executive Director of the Workforce Investment Board of San Bernardino County participated in the Rancho Cucamonga roundtable on Wednesday. “This event was a great platform to bring together a wide array of voices to discuss a common goal: boosting our local economy,” said Harmsen. She continued, “The Workforce Investment Board is often regarded as the hub of workforce development activities in San Bernardino County. We have the most up-to-date information about the types of jobs that are available in our market and the skills employers are seeking, so to have the opportunity to share and discuss this with Representative Aguilar was very worthwhile.” Jesse Medina, President and CEO of Veterans Strong also attended a roundtable discussion. “We need to address job creation in our district from a number of different angles; one of the most important includes how we work with veterans. I was pleased to see Representative Aguilar touch on this in several ways, from investing in workforce training to establishing tax incentives for businesses that hire veterans,” said Medina. He added, “The roundtable format created a great space to discuss our concerns directly and I look forward to participating in more events like this with Representative Aguilar.” Just six weeks into office, Representative Aguilar has co-sponsored and voted for several pieces of legislation that concentrate on job creation and support for small businesses. He co-sponsored a bill that would support job training, apprenticeships, and certification classes for eligible veterans; and he also co-sponsored the Small BREW Act. The Small BREW Act would reduce the federal excise tax for beer on small brewers, allowing these small businesses to hire more employees. Representative Aguilar recently voted to permanently extend a series of tax breaks many small businesses rely on.
02.19.2015	Today, Rep. Pete Aguilar (CA-31) and Rep. Ruben Gallego (AZ-07) released a letter to Speaker John Boehner, urging him to bring a clean Department of Homeland Security (DHS) funding bill to the House floor for a vote. The letter, signed by 119 Members of Congress, calls for a clean funding bill, one free of reckless anti-immigration riders that would roll back President Obama’s executive orders. If a funding bill is not passed in the next nine days, the Department of Homeland Security will face a shutdown. “A little over a year ago, the House majority chose party politics over the American people and cost our nation $24 billion during the 2013 shutdown, and now, they want to gamble the national security of the United States just so they can earn political points. I urge Speaker Boehner to immediately bring a clean Homeland Security funding bill to a vote so we can end this stand-off and focus on serving the American people,” said Rep. Pete Aguilar. Rep. Ruben Gallego said, “Rep. Roybal-Allard and Rep. Lowey already introduced a clean DHS funding bill that we could vote on this afternoon. The American people elected us solve problems and to do what is in their best interest, they deserve better.” He added, “Republicans caused this unnecessary crisis; It’s time for them to act like responsible adults, and for Speaker Boehner to bring up a clean funding bill so we can ensure the safety of our country and of the American people.” The current legislation does not have the votes to pass the Senate and is a guaranteed veto by President Obama. Without a funding bill by the February 27th deadline, the Department of Homeland Security will be forced to shut down, furloughing thousands of federal employees, forcing thousands of federal employees to work without pay, and putting the national security of the United States at risk. The letter can be read in full here.
02.13.2015	In anticipation of the February 18th rollout of President Obama’s immigration executive actions, Representative Pete Aguilar released the following statement: “Since taking office, I have had the opportunity to work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle. One of the most important issues I look forward to addressing together is comprehensive immigration reform. The Senate passed a bipartisan bill nearly twenty months ago, which the House leadership has refused to bring to the floor. I applaud the President for taking a step in the right direction, giving us the opportunity to keep families together and begin to fix our broken immigration system. I encourage all eligible applicants under the new executive action to apply beginning February 18th, and I look forward to working on this further with my colleagues in the House.” President Obama unveiled the Immigration Accountability Executive Action on November 20, 2014. It consists of two distinct orders: a new program, Deferred Action for Parents of Americans and Lawful Permanent Residents (DAPA), and the expansion of Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA). The latest program, DAPA, would permit undocumented parents of U.S. citizens and legal permanent residents to register with the government. They would be required to undergo a criminal background check at their own expense, acquire legal authorization to work in the United States, and would receive temporary protection from deportation if they are approved. The other key piece of the executive action is the expansion of DACA, which provides protection for immigrants who were brought to the United States as children. Eligible applicants may begin applying on February 18th.
02.12.2015	Today, Representative Pete Aguilar (CA-31) delivered remarks on the House floor, calling on Speaker Boehner to bring a clean, no-strings attached Department of Homeland Security (DHS) funding bill up for a vote immediately. Funding for the DHS is set to expire on February 28th, leaving sixteen days and only five legislative days for Congress to pass a bill. “Today we find ourselves once again on the verge of a shutdown, again—because Congress didn’t do its job and pass funding for the Department of Homeland Security. And now, Congress is playing politics, trying to roll back the President’s reforms and threatening to force the American people to pay the price for Congress’ inability to agree on funding to protect our homeland,” said Aguilar. He added, “Is it more important for you to earn political points, or is it more important to safeguard the national security of the United States of America? I’m urging you today to bring a clean appropriations bill to the floor so we can fully fund the Department of Homelands Security.” Representative Aguilar is working with Representative Ruben Gallego (AZ-07) and their colleagues to urge Speaker Boehner to bring a clean, up-or-down vote on a homeland security appropriations bill to fully fund DHS for the remainder of the fiscal year. As it stands, the recent House-passed bill is assured to be “dead on arrival” in the Senate and a promised-veto by President Obama. If lawmakers fail to pass a bill before the February 28th deadline, DHS will be unable to run at full capacity. Representative Aguilar is requesting a clean bill to fund DHS, without acrimonious legislative riders that end President Obama’s executive orders on immigration. Representative Aguilar’s remarks can be seen in full here.
01.22.2015	Representative Pete Aguilar announced his co-sponsorship of five bills being considered by Congress. These are the first bills Representative Aguilar has co-sponsored and highlight his commitment to working with Democrats and Republicans to achieve common sense results. In announcing his formal support for the bills, Representative Aguilar made the following statement: “I am proud to co-sponsor legislation that aims to strengthen the middle class and create a more fair and just society. These bills will help alleviate burdensome taxes on local businesses, spur economic growth and job creation, provide support to our students and veterans, and end legalized discrimination against same-sex couples. “These are all common sense bills that will help move the Inland Empire and our country forward. I look forward to working with my colleagues of both parties to get these bills to the President’s desk to be signed into law.” The five bills co-sponsored by Representative Aguilar, their authors and summaries of the legislation are as follows: H.R. 160, Protect Medical Innovation Act (Rep. Erik Paulsen R-MN) This bill repeals the medical device tax that was included as part of the Affordable Care Act. This excise tax has forced medical device manufacturers to slow investments in research and development and cut domestic jobs. The industry is one of the largest sources of American advanced manufacturing jobs and the U.S. leads the world in device companies. The Inland Empire is home to several medical device manufacturers. H.R. 344, Manufacturing Jobs for Veterans Act (Rep. Suzan DelBene, D-WA) The bill sets up a pilot State Manufacturing Employment Programs to support on-the-job training, apprenticeships, and certification classes for eligible veterans through employers and labor-management organizations. It invests $50 million in grants over the next five years to support veteran job training. H.R. 242, All-Year ACCESS Act (Rep. Loretta Sanchez, D-CA) This bill restores access to full-year Pell Grants, allowing full time and part time students to use Pell Grants to help cover the costs of summer classes and winter break classes. H.R. 232, Small BREW Act (Rep. Erik Paulsen R-MN) The bill reduced the federal excise tax for beer on small brewers, leveling the playing field and increasing competition with large beer producers. The Inland Empire is home to a number of small brewers. H.R. 197, Respect for Marriage Act (Rep. Jerry Nadler, D-NY) This bill officially repeals the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA), which permits states to refuse to recognize same-sex marriages granted in another state. This bill would end this legalized form of discrimination against same-sex couples.
01.20.2015	In response to President Barack Obama’s 2015 State of the Union address, Representative Pete Aguilar released the following statement: “While I agree with President Obama that we have made progress getting the nation’s economy back on track, the Inland Empire still has a long road toward economic recovery. As San Bernardino County families continue struggling to make ends meet, we need policies that create jobs, strengthen the region’s economy, and make sure families can keep more of their hard-earned money. “That’s why I applaud President Obama’s proposals to make the economy fairer for middle class families by raising the federal minimum wage and making the tax code more fair for middle class and low-income families – proposals that will put more money in the pockets of hard-working Inland Empire residents. “For too many families, the cost of pursuing higher education is a major obstacle to achieving the American Dream. That’s why I strongly support the President’s proposal to offer two years of free community college. This proposal will enable thousands of local students to achieve their dreams and increase the educational attainment of our region. I look forward to working to make this initiative a reality.” Representative Aguilar was joined by Rialto Mayor Deborah Robertson for the State of the Union address.
01.13.2015	Representative Pete Aguilar announced his appointment to the House Committee on Armed Services and the House Committee on Agriculture. His statement follows: “It is an honor to have been selected to serve on the House Armed Services and Agriculture Committees. These committees play an important role in the economic development and recovery of our region. “I look forward to serving the tens of thousands military personnel and veterans who call the Inland Empire home as a member of the Armed Services Committee. These proud men and women need a voice in Congress who will fight for our military and work to create defense jobs and grow renewable energy and manufacturing in San Bernardino County. Let's come together to make the Inland Empire an incubator for future growth in these sectors to grow our economy. “Agriculture has been a key part of our region's economy for generations, and I will work to strengthen this industry and the jobs it supports on the Agriculture Committee. At the same time, the Inland Empire was hit hard by the economic recession and many families are still struggling to make ends meet. I will fight for critical family nutrition programs like SNAP so that those in need have a way to feed their families."
01.06.2015	U.S. Representative Pete Aguilar was sworn in as a Member of the United States House of Representatives by House Speaker John Boehner on January 6th, 2015. The Honorable Pete Aguilar was elected to serve as representative of California’s 31st Congressional District. Representative Pete Aguilar was added to the rolls of the House upon executing the oath of office.
01.06.2015	A photo of the 114th freshman class was taken on the East Front steps of the United States Capitol.
01.06.2015	The First Session of the 114th United States Congress commences on January 6th, 2015. Members of the U.S. Senate and the U.S. House of Representatives will attend the First Session.
